4293055| Cereus peruvianus seedlings were used as a source of stem expiants to determine the effective conditions for inducing and maintaining callus tissues in a state of rapid growth, as well as to obtain plants regenerated from callus cultures. Factorial combinations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and kinetin in MS medium were tested, and we concluded that the 18.1 M 2,4-D and 18.6 or 27.9 M kinetin combinations were suitable for callus induction. The cactus shoots were produced from the friable callus; root elongation occurred within 2 wk in medium without 2,4-D and with 18.6 M kinetin. This method can be used to rapidly produce many C. peruvianus plants. 
25623015|Protoplast culture and plant regeneration of an important medicinal plant Tylophora indica were achieved through callus regeneration. Protoplasts were isolated from leaf mesophyll cells and cultured at a density of 5  10 protoplasts per gram fresh weight, which is required for the highest frequency of protoplast division (33.7%) and plating efficiency (9.3%). The first division was observed 2 d after plating and the second division after 4 d. Culture medium consists of Murashige and Skoog (MS) liquid medium with 4 M 2,4-D, 0.4 M mannitol and 3% (w/v) sucrose with pH adjusted to 5.8. After 45 d of culture at 25C in the dark, protoplasts formed colonies consisting of about 100 cells. The protoplast-derived microcalli were visible to the naked eye within 60 d of culture and reached a size of 0.2-0.4 mm in diameter after 90 d. Calli of 0.2-0.4-mm size were transferred to MS medium supplemented with 2,4-D (4 M), 3% (w/v) sucrose and 0.8% (w/v) agar, formed friable organogenic calli (7-8 mm size) after 8 wk under incubation in normal light period supplemented with 200 mol m S of day light fluorescent illumination. The calli were transferred to MS medium supplemented with thidiazuron (TDZ) (1-7 M) and naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) (0.2-0.4 M) for regeneration. The calli developed shoot buds after 3-4 wk, and the frequencies of calli-forming shoots varied from 5% to 44%. Optimum shoot regeneration occurred on MS medium supplemented with 5 M TDZ and 0.4 M NAA. On this medium, 44% cultures responded with an average number of 12 shoots per callus. Whole plants were recovered following rooting of shoots in 1/2 MS medium supplemented with 3 M indole 3-butyric acid.
4293746| Tennessee coneflower [Echinacea tennesseensis (Beadle) Small] was regenerated from flower stalks, leaf sections from flowering plants, and hypocotyls and cotyledons from seedlings. Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) supplemented with naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) at 0.54 M and thidiazuron (TDZ) at 22.7 M yielded the most shoots per leaf explant. NAA and 6-benzylaminopurine concentrations for optimal shoot regeneration from leaf, flower stalk, cotyledon and hypocotyl explants in MS media were 0.54 and 24.6 M, respectively. All explant types generated shoots; however, those derived from leaves and flower stalks produced the highest number of shoots per explant and highest percentage of explants with shoots. Explants cultured on media containing high levels of NAA (5.4-27 M) formed calluses but no adventitious shoot. Leaf explants responded to a wider range of NAA concentrations than the other explant types but shoots generated from flower stalks grew the fastest. While all cytokinins tested increased the number of shoots per explant, the number of shoots in media containing TDZ was increased by nearly threefold. Regenerated shoots from all explant types cultured on MS medium supplemented with 0.25 M indole-3-butyric acid initiated roots within 4 wk; NAA was not effective for root induction. All vernalized plantlets developed into plants that were morphologically identical to the source material. 
4293631|Shoots by direct and indirect organogenesis and somatic embryos were induced from tubercles excised from Ariocarpus kotschoubeyanus seeds germinated in vitro. Shoot formation was greatest (6.3 per explant) when explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine (BA;
23321156|Lolium temulentum L. (Darnel ryegrass) is a self-fertile and diploid grass species with a relatively short life cycle. We propose to use L. temulentum as a model system for genetic manipulation studies in forage and turf grasses, since most of the important grasses are outcrossing, require vernalization to flower, and in some cases are polyploid. As the first step to develop an efficient regeneration and transformation system, we performed a large-scale genotype screening for tissue culture responses using 46 L. temulentum accessions. Embryogenic callus formation frequency ranged from <1% to 11% across all accessions tested. Embryogenic calluses of a few responsive accessions were used to establish cell suspension cultures. The regeneration frequency of green plantlets from the established cell suspension ranged from 15% to 39%. After transferring the regenerants to the greenhouse, fertile plants were readily obtained without any vernalization treatment. This efficient plant regeneration system is being used for genetic transformation studies. With the development of genomics approaches for the improvement of forage and turf grasses, L. temulentum could serve as a model system for testing gene functions.
42568881|Suboptimal environmental conditions inside closed culture vessels can be detrimental to in vitro growth and survival of plantlets during the acclimatization process. In this study, the environmental factors that affected Doritaenopsis plantlet growth and the relationship between growth and sugar metabolism were investigated. Cultures were maintained under heterotrophic, photoautotrophic, or photomixotrophic conditions under different light intensities and CO concentrations. Photoautotrophic growth of Doritaenopsis hybrid plantlets could be promoted significantly by increasing the light intensity and CO concentration in the culture vessel. The concentration of different sugars in the leaves of in vitro-grown plantlets varied with different cultural treatments through a 10-wk culture period. Starch, reducing sugars, and nonreducing sugar contents were higher in plantlets grown under photoautotrophic and photomixotrophic conditions than in heterotrophically grown plantlets. Net photosynthesis rates were also higher in photoautotrophically and photomixotrophically grown plantlets. These results support the hypothesis that pyruvate, produced by the decarboxylation of malate, is required for optimal photoautotrophy under high photosynthetic photon flux density. Growth was greatest in plantlets grown under CO-enriched photoautotrophic and photomixotrophic conditions with high photosynthetic photon flux density. The physiological status of in vitro-grown Crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM)-type Doritaenopsis showed a transition from C3 to CAM prior to acclimatization.
4293698|Various plant secondary products have been implicated in the promotion of good health or the prevention of disease in humans, but little is known about the way they are absorbed in the gut, or in which tissues they are deposited throughout the body. While these issues could be studied if the phytochemicals were isotopically labeled, generating labeled molecules often is problematic because many compounds of interest can be synthesized only in planta at present. In order to generate
20064983|An efficient and reproducible in vitro culture system has been developed for regeneration of multiple shoot clumps from intact seedlings of both lowland and upland cultivars of switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.). The multiple shoots were induced on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with various combinations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 1-phenyl-3-(1,2,3-thiadiazol-5YL)-urea (thidiazuron or TDZ). Maximum response was obtained with 4.5 M 2,4-D and 18.2 M TDZ. These shoots proliferated and rooted efficiently on MS medium without growth regulators. The developmental pattern of the multiple shoots indicated their origin from the enlarged shoot apex via proliferation of axillary buds and subsequent reprogramming of shoot meristems followed by secondary differentiation of adventitious shoots. The simplicity of the protocol and direct production of multiple shoots make this a potential system that is highly attractive and amenable for microprojectile-mediated gene transfer.
4293489| Sugarcane (Saccharum spp. hybrid cv. CP 84-1198) embryogenic calluses were induced from young leaves cultured on modified Murashige and Skoog basal medium supplemented with 13.6 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Five concentrations, 0.5, 1.0, 2.5, 5.0, and 10.0 M, of five different growth regulators, 6-benzylaminopurine, kinetin, 6-,-(dimethylallylamino)purine, zeatin, and thidiazuron, were tested with or without 22.5 M -naphthaleneacetic acid to compare their ability to induce regeneration from embryogenic callus. After 4 wk on medium, the percentage of shoot meristem induction was evaluated, and after 10 wk the total number of shoots produced, as well as the percentage of shoots greater than 1 cm in length, was obtained. Although it had the lowest percentage of elongated shoots, medium containing thidiazuron alone performed better than all other growth regulators tested, with the highest percentage of shoot induction and the largest number of shoots, particularly at a concentration of 2.5 M. 
20064853|Somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration of banana and plantain cultivars (Musa spp.) were obtained by culturing young male flowers. Multiplication and maintenance of embryogenic cultures were achieved by culturing somatic embryos in a temporary immersion system (SIT). A multiplication rate of 40 allowed us to obtain more than 6000 somatic embryos after 6 mo. of subculture. Plant recovery frequencies were 60 to 70%. This method was expanded to different banana and plantain genomic groups.
20064816|Embryogenic callus was induced from explanted pinnae of newly emerged leaves of mature plants of Ceratozamia mexicana var. Robusta (Gymnospermae, Cycadales) on a modified B5 formulation with
20461703|Highly efficient Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of trifoliate orange (Poncirus trifoliata (L.) Raf.) was achieved via indirect shoot organogenesis. Stable transformants were obtained from epicotyl segments infected with Agrobacterium strain EHA 105 harboring the binary vector pBI121, which contained the neomycin phosphotransferase gene (NPTII) as a selectable marker and the -glucuronidase (GUS) gene as a reporter. The effects of regeneration and selection conditions on the transformation efficiency of P. trifoliata (L.) Raf. have been investigated. A 7-d cocultivation on a medium with 8.86 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA)+1.43 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) was used to improve callus formation from epicotyl segments after transformation. A two-step selection strategy was developed to select kanamycin-resistant calluses and to improve rooting of transgenic shoots. Transgenic shoots were multiplied on shoot induction medium with 1.11 M BA+5.71 M IAA. Using the optimized transformation procedure, transformation efficiency and rooting frequency reached 417% and 96%, respectively. Furthermore, the number of regenerated escape shoots was dramatically reduced. Stable integration of the transgenes into the genome of transgenic citrus plants was confirmed by GUS histochemical assay, PCR, and Southern blot analysis.
20064805|The possibilities for in vitro regeneration of cocoa plants have been limited. Somatic embryos can differentiate from cotyledonary cells, but their conversion into plants has remained largely unsolved. In the present study, we attempted micrografting of somatic embryos to seedling rootstocks. Different conditions were analyzed for the rootstocks and embryos, and it was found that complete plant regeneration eeeded about 10 mo. The best results were obtained using a simple culture medium, 3-wk-old rootstocks, and somatic embryos without cotyledons. Histologic events associated with the graft union were also analyzed. Cells, mainly from the rootstock, initiate cellular division in different patterns, producing a callus at the graft junction. Within this region some cells differentiated into zylem and phloem, establishing vascular connection in the graft. Afterward, micrografted plants start to grow and differentiate new leaves and roots allowing for transfer to soil.
4293269|Parasitic flowering plants from 23 genera in 7 families (Convolvulaceae, Lauraceae, Loranthaceae, Orobanchaceae, Santalaceae, Scrophulariaceae and Viscaceae) have been cultured in vitro. These plants include both hemiparasites and holoparasites that parasitize stems and roots of angiosperms and gymnosperms. This review highlights relevant information on each genus with regard to its biology, distribution, host range, and tissue culture procedures. Tissue culture has been used to study aspects of the development, metabolism, reproduction, physiology and nutritional requirements of these plants under controlled conditions. Studies of host-parasite relationships, including potential roles of signals/receptors that influence host development and physiology, and factors influencing seed germination and haustorium formation, have been conducted. The effects of chemicals and herbicides on the physiology and biochemistry of parasite embryo and seedling development have been studied, as well as the influence of inhibitors or stimulants on seed germination. Tissue culture has provided a method for propagation and genetic improvement of plants with commercial value.
4293030|An efficient and reproducible protocol has been developed for in vitro shoot regeneration from cotyledonary explants derived by germinating immature ovules of Impatiens platypetala Lindl. 'TR6-27-2'. Cotyledonary explants were cultured on a modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) agar-solidified medium containing
4293612|Some native species produce seeds with a low frequency of germination accompanied with a period of dormancy. These features make it difficult to produce new phenotypes through sexual propagation. Maclura tinctoria has been considered an endangered species due to extensive use of its wood and low frequency of seed germination. The objective of the present study is to establish an in vitro propagation system for this species. Organogenic friable callus formation from nodal segments has been obtained using woody plant medium (WPM) supplemented with
4293054| Rose (Rosa hybrida L.) plants were micropropagated by axillary shoot proliferation method. Maximum number of microshoots per shoot tip expiant were obtained on MS medium supplemented with 5 to 10 M thidiazuron (TDZ). The microshoots formed rooted plants on MS hormone-free medium. No difference in the rooting of microshoots produced on medium containing TDZ or
4293324|Variants from seed-propagated Lisianthus [Eustoma grandiflorum (Raf.) Shinn] were shoot-tip cultured to observe the effects of cytokinins, auxins and activated charcoal on organogenesis and anatomical characteristics.
4292972|Ovule perforation technique and media components (plant growth regulators and L-glutamine) were tested on in vitro growth of immature (<3 mm) embryos of "Springerest" and "Earligrande" peaches. Ovule perforation was 2 to 4 times more effective in promoting embryo growth than leaving ovules intact. L-Glutamine
4293081|Micropropagated Spathiphyllum "Petite" plantlets were acclimatized at low- or high-light intensities [photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD)
4293776|An in vitro protocol for Ficus carica cv. 'Roxo de Valinhos' was optimized. Nodal explants containing two buds were excised from field-grown mature plants, and transferred to different proliferation media consisting of combinations of distinct concentrations of activated charcoal with benzyladenine (BA), kinetin with gibberellic acid (GA
42568813|Here, we describe a new protocol for the induction of direct somatic embryogenesis of Agave fourcroydes through thin cell layer (TCL) culture technology. The protocol was optimized for the main factors known to affect the process, including the type of explant (stem or leaf tissue), type and concentration of exogenous growth regulators (-naphthalene acetic acid [NAA], 2,4-diclorophenoxyacetic acid [2,4-D], 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinecarboxylic acid [picloram], and 3,6-dichloro-2-methoxybenzoic acid [dicamba]), and the influence of plant genotype. Thin tissue segments cut transversally (tTCLs) from stems of in vitro-cultured plants gave the best embryogenic response when cultured with 2.26 M dicamba (92.22 embryos/explant) or 2.07 M picloram (81.72 embryos/explant). It was interesting to observe that the embryogenic capacity of these tissues was affected by the presence of 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) in the culture medium in which the explant donor plantlets were maintained. Thirteen clonal lines (each derived from a different parental plant), compared for their embryogenic competence under the same culture conditions, produced very different embryogenic responses that varied from very high (117 embryos/explant) to null. The histological analysis revealed that the amount of meristematic tissue present in the tTCLs varied according to the region of the stem (apical, middle, or basal) from which they originated. The cells of the vascular procambium became competent and developed into cell lines that formed embryos, either by a unicellular or a multicellular pathway. Mature embryos germinated in half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium without growth regulators and 85% of regenerated plants was successfully acclimatized in a greenhouse.
20461710|With the objective to develop a practical method of screening potato for drought tolerance, shoot and root growth in plantlets raised in vitro (from nodal cuttings drawn from in vivo as well as in vitro grown plantlets) were studied in three genotypes with known root mass production under field conditions. Different levels of water stress were induced using five concentrations of agar in MS (Murashige and Skoog in Physiol Plant 15:473-497, 1962) medium. Water potential of various media ranged from -0.70 MPa to -0.98 MPa. Water stress in culture adversely affected plantlet growth, and the responses varied with genotype and explant source. Genotype IWA-1 was less affected than Konafubuki and Norin-1. In the experiment with explants from in vivo grown plants, the time to rooting was considerably delayed in Konafubuki and Norin-1 by an increase in agar concentration, but no such effect was observed in IWA-1. In all media, the mean number of roots and root length was greater in IWA-1 than Konafubuki and Norin-1, and the latter two genotypes were at par. At 10 g l agar, IWA-1 had taller plantlets, heavier foliage dry weight, root volume, as well as root dry weight than Konafubuki and Norin-1, whereas the latter two genotypes were at par for all these characteristics. This pattern was similar to the reported pattern of these genotypes for root dry weight under field conditions. However, such similarity in the in vitro and field behavior of the tested genotypes was not observed when nodal cuttings drawn from in vitro plantlets were used as explants. It is concluded that in vitro screening of potato under specific and limited water stress conditions by raising plantlets from nodal cuttings drawn from in vivo grown plants may provide a system for effectively differentiating the genotypes for their expected root mass production under field conditions.
23016742|Numerous crops have been bred or engineered to increase carotenoid levels in an effort to develop novel strategies that address vitamin A deficiency in the developing world. The pioneering work in rice (not covered in this review) has been followed up in many additional crops, some of which are staples like rice whereas others are luxury products whose impact on food security is likely to be marginal. This review surveys the progress that has been made in carotenoid breeding and metabolic engineering, focusing on -carotene enhancement in crops other than rice. We ask if these efforts have the potential to address vitamin A deficiency in developing countries by comparing bioavailable pro-vitamin A levels in wild type and enhanced crops to determine whether nutritional requirements can be met without the consumption of unrealistic amounts of food. The potential impact of carotenoid enhancement should therefore be judged against benchmarks that include the importance of particular crops in terms of global food security, the amount of bioavailable -carotene, and the amount of food that must be consumed to achieve the reference daily intake of vitamin A.
4293151|The anatomy and morphology of bud regeneration were investigated in melon (Cucumis melo L.) cv. Galia, which regenerates in vitro only by direct organogenesis from the cotyledon explant. Explants were cut from the cotyledon proximal to the apex from 3-d-old in vitro seedlings. After 3 d on Murashige and Skoog medium with
41496513|Magnetic fields affect biological systems. However, this is the first study on the effects of permanent magnetic fields (MFs) on the micropropagation of two ornamental plants, Spathiphyllum cv. i.e 'Merry' and Cymbidium Music Hour 'Maria'. Cymbidium and Spathiphyllum shoots cultured in the ' Miracle Pack'  culture system were exposed to MFs of different intensities, polarities, and duration of exposure. The results show that by increasing intensity from 5 x 10v Tesla (T) as the geo-magnetic field to 0.1, 0.15, and 0.2 T negatively influenced height and fresh mass of roots of Cymbidium plants (except for 0.1 T-S and 0.2 T-N treatments), but had no significant effect on other plantlet parameters. Long-term exposure (1, 2, or 3 mo) of Cymbidium shoots to 0.15 T-MFs negatively influenced plant height, positively affected the number of leaves (with the exception of 0.15 T-SI mo), and had no clear effect on other parameters compared to the control. MFs (0.1, 0.15, and 0.2 T), regardless of their polarity, increased chlorophyll content (SPAD value) and the number of leaves, but slightly decreased the dry mass of Spathiphyllum shoots. Different exposure duration to 0.15 T (i.e., 2, 4, or 8 wk) had no significant influence on Spathiphyllum plantlet development other than increasing the SPAD value. These two ornamentals could serve as model systems to study plant development, space production, yield maximization, and the development of new morphotypes essential for the floricultural market.
4293277|Soybean is a recalcitrant species for in vitro manipulation. Chinese scientists developed two in planta non-tissue culture soybean transformation procedures: (1) via the "pollen-tube-pathway" to introduce exogenous genomic total DNA of Glycine gracilis, the seed of which consisted of 50% protein, and (2) "ovarian injection" with exogenous plasmid DNA containing atrazine-resistant gene. A high yield and high seed protein (45.44%) cultivar, 'Heisheng 101', resulted from the first method, and atrazine-resistant F
4293858|Shoot regeneration in hairy root cultures of Solarium khasianum Clarke influences root growth, solasodine production, and permeabilization of solasodine into the medium. These parameters are dependent on exogenously supplied auxin and cytokinin; the effect being both concentration- and clone-dependent. Hairy root cultures with no shoot regeneration showed high permeabilization of solasodine into the medium by the sixth week of incubation, suggesting the medium acts as a sink for the solasodine synthesized by the roots. Solasodine in the culture medium was toxic to the transformed roots and caused browning of root tips. In a separate set of experiments, the hairy root cultures showed regeneration of approximately 50-70 mm long shoots after treatment with indole-3-acetic acid and kinetin. These hairy root cultures had increased levels of solasodine production, compared to cultures without shoot regeneration. The plantlets formed in the hairy root cultures accumulated some of the solasodine, thereby reducing its permeabilization into the medium. Transport of solasodine from root to shoot reduced the toxic effect of solasodine in the root zone and extended the exponential growth phase by 8-10 d.
4293616| Eucalyptus nitens Maiden (shining gum) is a frost-tolerant species of Eucalyptus that can be used as an alternative species to Eucalyptus globulus in some regions of Portugal where winter temperatures are too low. Seedlings and 1-yr-old shoot tips and nodes were used for micropropagation of E. nitens. The best multiplication rate (2.25) was obtained when seedling shoots (< 15 mm) were cultured on a medium containing the major nutrients (at half-strength) and minor elements of Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium, the organics of De Fossard medium (De Fossard et al., 1974) and a combination of benzyladenine (0.9 M) and 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (0.05 M). Seedling cuttings (4-, 8-, and 10-wk-old) rooted well on media containing several concentrations of 3-indolebutyric acid (4.9, 9.8, and 14.8 M) or 3-indoleacetic acid (5.7, 11.4, and 17.1 M), giving frequencies of root induction above 80%. With this type of explant, root formation was also found on basal medium without growth regulators. Rooting of in vitro-propagated shoots obtained from seedlings (8-wk-old) after four subcultures (every 3 wk) was more difficult, with the best results obtained on a medium containing 14.7 M 3-indolebutyric acid (60.0% root induction). No root formation was achieved when shoots from 1-yr-old explants were used. After a period of 4 mo., 96.3% of the plants transferred to the greenhouse survived acclimatization. 
4293480|Somatic embryogenesis (SE) initiation in Pinus strobus was optimized by the manipulation of plant growth regulator (PGR) concentrations in the culture medium. Modified Litvay medium (MLV) of Litvay et al. (1985) supplemented with lower than routinely used PGR concentration increased initiation of established embryogenic cultures from approximately 20 to 53%. The original developmental stage of zygotic embryos had a pronounced effect on the SE response. The optimum stage was the pre- to shortly post-cleavage stage. A substantial genetic influence on initiation of SE was indicated by a significant variance component due to families. Genotype x collection date and genotype x media interactions had large effects on initiation of SE. The PGR levels in the culture medium prior to maturation had a significant effect on subsequent production of mature somatic embryos. Embryogenic tissue initiated and proliferated on medium with a low level of PGR consistently produced a high number of somatic embryos, indicating that optimized initiation protocol also enhanced somatic embryo production. Somatic embryos of 93 embryogenic lines (representing five families) that were initiated on media with different PGR concentrations were converted to plants at an overall frequency of 76%, and grown in the greenhouse. With these improved protocols, application of P. strobus SE in commercial clonal forestry is feasible as an alternative to traditional breeding and reforestation.
20064920|We successfully micropropagated Hesperaloe parviflora from mature plants. Shoot cultures were directly initiated from mature plants using pedicel bud explants on a modified Murashige and Skoog medium containing Nitsch and Nitsch vitamins and 1 M zeatin riboside. Axillary shoot multiplication from established cultures was most responsive to changing concentrations of N-benzyladenine (BA) with the greatest production on 6 M BA. Growing shoots on a medium supplemented with 6 M BA for 6 wk and then transferring cultures to a 1 M BA medium for 6 more wk increased the number of transferable shoots, but not significantly. However, our data predicts that the maximum number of transferable shoots produced from a single microshoot would occur on media with 5.4 M zeatin riboside. Shoots rooted easily in vitro or ex vitro and rooted shoots were easily acclimatized. The methods described in this paper are being used to commercially micropropagate H. parviflora.
20064993|Germplasm collections of vegetatively propagated crops are usually maintained as plants in fields or potted in greenhouses or screened enclosures. Safety duplication of these collections, as duplicate plants or separate collections, is costly and requires large amounts of space. Cryopreservation techniques which were recently developed for long-term storage of pear germplasm may offer an efficient alternative to conventional germplasm collection maintenance. Pear (Pyrus L.) germplasm may now be stored as seeds (species), dormant buds or pollen from field-grown trees, or shoot tips from in vitro-grown plants (cultivars). Pear germplasm may now be cryopreserved and stored for long periods (&gt 100 yr) utilizing slow-freezing or vitrification of in vitro-grown shoot-tips. Dormant bud freezing, pollen, and seed cryopreservation of other lines are being developed to complete the base collection for Pyrus. This cryopreserved collection provides base (long-term) storage for the field-grown pear germplasm collection at the National Clonal Germplasm Repository, Corvallis, Oregon.
20064933|Basal media, plant growth regulator type and concentration, sucrose, and light were examined for their effects on duck-weed (Lemna gibba) frond proliferation, callus induction and growth, and frond regeneration. Murashinge and Skoog medium proved best for callus induction and growth, while Schenk and Hildebrandt medium proved best for frond proliferation. The ability of auxin to induce callus was associated with the relative strength of the four auxins tested, with 20 or 50 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid giving the highest frequency (10%) of fronds producing cellus. Auxin combinations did not improve callus induction frequency. Auxin in combination with other plant growth regulators was needed for long-term callus growth; the two superior plant growth regulator combinations were 10 M naphthaleneacetic acid, 10 M gibberellic acid, and 2 M benzyladenine with either 1 or 20 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Three percent sucrose was best for callus induction and growth. Callus induction and growth required light. Callus that proliferated from each frond's meristematic zone contained a mixture of dedifferentiated and somewhat organized cell masses. Continual callus selection was required to produce mostly dedifferentiated, slow-growing callus cell lines. Frond regeneration occurred on Schenk and Hildebrandt medium without plant growth regulators but was promoted by 1 M benzyladenine. Callus maintained its ability to regenerate fronds for at least 10 mo. Regenerated fronds showed a slower growth rate than normal fronds and a low percentage of abnormal morphologies that reverted to normal after one or two subcultures.
42568814|Tetrastigma hemsleyanum suspension cells were treated with four metal salts to screen suitable elicitors for the promotion of plant cell biomass and flavonoid production. The effects of calcium ions (Ca) on induction were also studied. It was found that the most effective elicitors were 50 M of the heavy metal ion copper (Cu) and 100 M of the rare earth element cerium (Ce). The maximal biomass levels under respective treatments over a 16-d culture period increased by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, and the total flavonoid content was 1.8- and 1.6-fold greater than the control, respectively. Reducing the exogenous Ca concentration or adding Ca antagonists (1 mM ethylene glycolbis(2-aminoethylether)-N,N,N',N-tetraacetc acid (EGTA) or 1 mM verapamil) strengthened inductive effects of metal elicitors and enhanced flavonoid production. However, 0.5 M of the calcium ionophore A23187 showed contrary results. The increase in exogenous Ca concentration in the presence of A23187 suppressed HO bursts and peroxidase activity caused by metal elicitors. The results suggest that Ca plays an inhibitory role in the plant cell response to metal elicitors. This suppression could have been caused by Ca preventing the cells from absorbing metal ions and then easing the induction, or because the decrease of Ca concentration worked as an induction signal. Therefore, reducing the Ca concentration in culture medium, or adding Ca antagonists could be used to improve flavonoid production and cell growth in combination with induction by metal elicitors during in vitro culture of T. hemsleyanum suspension cells.
25623037|Regeneration of new shoots in plant tissue culture is often associated with appearance of abnormally shaped leaves. We used the adventitious shoot regeneration response induced by decapitation (removal of all preformed shoot apical meristems, leaving a single cotyledon) of greenhouse-grown cotyledon-stage seedlings to test the hypothesis that such abnormal leaf formation is a normal regeneration progression following wounding and is not conditioned by tissue culture. To understand why shoot regeneration starts with defective organogenesis, the regeneration response was characterized by morphology and scanning electron and light microscopy in decapitated cotyledon-stage Cucurbita pepo seedlings. Several leaf primordia were observed to regenerate prior to differentiation of a de novo shoot apical meristem from dividing cells on the wound surface. Early regenerating primordia have a greatly distorted structure with dramatically altered dorsoventrality. Aberrant leaf morphogenesis in C. pepo gradually disappears as leaves eventually originate from a de novo adventitious shoot apical meristem, recovering normal phyllotaxis. Similarly, following comparable decapitation of seedlings from a number of families (Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Convolvulaceae, Cucurbitaceae, Cruciferae, Fabaceae, Malvaceae, Papaveraceae, and Solanaceae) of several dicotyledonous clades (Ranunculales, Caryophyllales, Asterids, and Rosids), stems are regenerated bearing abnormal leaves; the normal leaf shape is gradually recovered. Some of the transient leaf developmental defects observed are similar to responses to mutations in leaf shape or shoot apical meristem function. Many species temporarily express this leaf development pathway, which is manifest in exceptional circumstances such as during recovery from excision of all preformed shoot meristems of a seedling.
4293271|This review paper describes the importance of synchronous cell cultures as experimental systems for investigations of mechanisms of the cell cycle of higher plants, and various methods of synchronization are discussed. The efficient synchronization methods were double phosphate starvation in Catharanthus roseus cells and aphidicolin treatment in tobacco cells. Using these systems, cell cycle-dependent genes were isolated and characterized. One of them, cyc07, was investigated in detail and the possible function of cyc07 is discussed as an example of genes involved in the progression of the cell cycle of higher plants. Finally, a perspective of investigations of the cell cycle of higher plant cells is discussed.
4293116|Progressive loss of organogenic totipotency appears to be a common event in long-term plant tissue culture. This loss of totipotency, which has been proposed to be a typical trait of plant neoplastic progression, is compared to some mechanisms that occur during the establishment of animal differentiation-resistant cancer lines in vitro. Evidence is presented that alteration in DNA methylation patterns and expression of genes occur during long-term callus culture. An effect of the auxin, 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, in the progressive methylation, is moreover suggested. Methylation of genes relevant to cell differentiation and progressive elimination of cells capable of differentiation is proposed as being responsible for this progressive loss of organogenic potential. Finally, the epigenetic alteration (DNA methylation) that occurs during prolonged periods of culture may induce other irreversible genetic alterations that ultimately make the loss of totipotency irreversible.
29736168|This study reports the characterization of 11 plants regenerated from electrically fused protoplasts between Populus alba and Alnus firma. Growth characteristics of five regenerated plants (AP-1-AP-5) in terms of shoot height and leaf color showed small differences compared with those of P. alba grown in pots, and showed no difference in shoot height and diameter compared with those grown in nursery field. There was also no difference in the RAPD pattern between the plants regenerated from interfamilial protoplast fusion and P. alba. In contrast, the lately regenerated plants (AP-6-AP-11) grown in pots showed a marked difference in leaf morphology and RAPD pattern. There was a variation in the ratio of longitudinal to transverse length of leaves among the 11 plants from interfamilial fusions compared with that of protoclones and intraspecific fused protoplasts of P. alba.
4293137|Adventive organogenesis and somatic embryogenesis were induced from leaf explants taken from in vitro or in vivo plants of Codiaeum variegatum cv. "
4293542| Transgenic plants of three Picea species were produced after coculture of embryogenic tissue with the disarmed strain of Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58/pMP90/pBIV10 and selection on medium containing kanamycin. In addition to the nptII selectable gene (conferring resistance to kanamycin), the vector carried the uidA (-glucuronidase) marker gene. Transformation frequencies were dependent on the species, genotype, and post-cocultivation procedure. Of the three species tested, P. mariana was transformed at the highest frequency, followed by P. glauca and P. abies. The transgenic state of the embryogenic tissue was initially confirmed by histochemical -glucuronidase (GUS) assay followed by Southern hybridization. One to over five copies of T-DNA were detected in various transgenic lines analyzed. Transgenic plants were regenerated for all species using modified protocols for maturation and germination of somatic embryos. 
40981336|A system for genetic transformation and subsequent plant regeneration via indirect organognesis from callus was developed for Aloe vera. Young seedlings served as primary expiants. Callus cultures were established on Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium supplemented with 3 mg l benzylaminopurine and 2 mg l indole acetic acid. A protocol was developed to switch from the differentiated stage, using in vitro shoots or young regenerated plants, back to the dedifferentiated stage of the callus and vice versa. Long-term maintenance of this callus paved the way for genetic manipulation of Aloe vera. Calluses were bombarded with a plasmid containing uidA and hpt genes, both under the control of the 35S promoter. Dithiothreitol and gibberellic acid were found to play a major role in reducing tissue necrosis following bombardment. Transformed shoots were regenerated under stepwise selection in hygromycincontaining liquid medium supplemented with different antioxidants. Amberlite XAD-4 resin was embedded into alginate beads and added to the selection medium. Amberlite was best for adsorbing different phenolic compounds and blocking expiant necrosis. Shoot initiation occurred after transfer of the transformed cells to Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 2.0 mg  thidiazuron and 0.1 mg l indole butyric acid. Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 1 mg l zeatin riboside promoted shoot elongation. Rooting and plant development were obtained on Murashige and Skoog basal medium supplemented with 15 mg l hygromycin lacking growth regulators. The transgenic nature of the regenerated plants was verified by histochemical GUS assay and Southern blot hybridization.
20541044|Embryogenic suspensor mass (ESM) was established from immature seeds of Fraser fir. The initiation frequency of ESM was dependent on genotype, collection time, medium, and plant growth regulators (PGR) used. The ESM initiation potential was higher with seeds collected in late June (clone 16-273, 4.7%) or early July (clone 16-45, 2.2%) and decreased as the zygotic embryos matured. Excised proembryo stage of zygotic embryos was most appropriate to initiation of ESM. Most of the ESM arose from the seeds that were at the proembryo stage. From the four different culture media we compared, seven ESM lines were obtained: two lines from Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 4.4 M benzyladenine (BA), one from Schenk and Hildebrandt (SH) medium with 4.5 M thidiazuron (TDZ), and four from SH with 4.4 M 6-benzyladenine. However, only one ESM line from clone 16-273 (June 24, SH+TDZ) could be proliferated in subsequent culture. Different concentrations of L-glutamine and casein hydrolysate (CH) in the medium were also compared for their effect on ESM proliferation. The highest proliferation rate (1.16-fold) was obtained from SH medium supplemented with 250 mg/L CH and 3.42 mM L-glutamine. In contrast, the lowest rate was noted when 1,000 mg/L CH plus 3.42 mM L-glutamine (0.17-fold) was added to the medium. As for somatic embryo maturation, the highest number of mature precotyledonary (100.1/g FW ESM) or cotyledonary (64.3/g FW ESM) somatic embryos was obtained on a medium containing 20 or 80 M abscisic acid, 10% polyethyleneglycol, 4% maltose, and 0.3% gellan gum. For germination of the somatic embryos, the cotyledonary somatic embryos derived from maturation medium were transferred on half-strength Litvay medium containing 0.3% gellan gum. The somatic plantlets were recovered from the germination medium and transferred to soils.
4293621|With the aim to determine a possible relationship between somatic embryogenesis and some metabolic contents in embryogenic and non-embryogenic calluses of sugarcane (Saccharum sp. var CP-5243), the present study was carried out. Embryogenic callus has more soluble proteins, free proline, proteolytic activity, soluble sugars, and invertase, and lower putrescine/(spermidine + spermine) than non-embryogenic tissue. Non-embryogenic callus has a higher peroxidase and gallic acid level, lower dry matter/fresh matter ratio, and more gross fat compared with embryogenic callus.
40663787|Xylanases are used in various agricultural and industrial applications. A synthetic, modified, codonoptimized xylanase gene (XynZ) from Clostridium thermocellum was expressed in transgenic tobacco plants. The coding sequence of XynZ was placed between the modified Mirabilis mosaic virus full-length transcript promoter with duplicated enhancer domains and the terminator sequence from the rbcSE9 gene. Three constructs were developed to evaluate XynZ expression levels by targeting gene products into the cytosol, intercellular space, or endoplasmic reticulum in transgenic plants. These chimeric genes, expressed in transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum cv. Samsun NN) were stably inherited in successive plant generations (R0, R1, and R2 progeny; primary, second, and third generation) as shown by molecular characterization (RT-PCR and qRT-PCR) and enzymatic assays. A Western blot analysis of plant extracts showed presence of a polypeptide of the expected size that cross-reacted with xylanase-specific antibodies. Transgenic plants were morphologically similar to wild-type plants and showed no deleterious effect due to transgene expression. The expressed xylanase was heat-stable, having optimum activity between 55C and 75C over a pH range of 5 to 5.6.
20461749|Callus cultures derived from leaf segments of chrysanthemum cultivar 'Snow Ball' which was susceptible to Septoria obesa were successfully used for in vitro selection for resistance to this pathogenic fungus. Resistant cell lines were selected by culturing callus on growth medium containing various concentrations of S. obesa filtrate. Resistant calluses obtained after two cycles (30 d each cycle) of selection were used for plant regeneration. About 30% of the plants regenerated from the resistant calluses and 70-80% of the plants raised from cuttings had acquired considerable resistance against the pathogen in the field. No phenotypic variation was observed in the selected regenerates.
4293937|Plant regeneration systems from mesophyll- and cell suspension-derived protoplasts were established in Dianthus acicularis (2n = 90), a species with resistance to Burkholderia caryophylli (Pseudomonas caryophylli). Protoplasts were isolated from both leaves of in vitro-grown plants and cell suspension cultures established from the calluses originated from leaves of in vitro-grown plants. Protoplasts isolated from both sources showed about the same response to the type and concentration of cytokinins, and gave the highest frequencies of cell division and colony formation in 0.1% (w/v) Gelrite[REGISTERED TRADE MARK SIGN]-solidified Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 0.5 M glucose,
20065017|The progress in the development of the technologies of plant tissue and cell culture over the past four decades has been remarkable. This article covers my personal reflections on the various topics and is based on my involvement in the field during that period. There are three fundamental technologies which constitute most of what is referred to as plant in vitro technologies or tissue culture. The origin and some of the key persons involved in the development of each of these procedures will be discussed. The technology that is most common is growing plant tissue on gel-solidified nutrient media. That technology is being used in the most vital procedures, namely the regeneration of plants from cultured cells. The culture of plant cells in liquid suspension was developed very shortly after that, and has become a very effective technology for plant regeneration by somatic embryogenesis. The method of meristem culture arose out of a need for developing plants that were virus-free. In many species the technique is now being used to produce virus-free crop plants. Another important technology is the culture of anthers and microspores for producing haploid and homozygous plants. Included with plant tissue culture is the development of the plant protoplast and cell fusion technologies for the production of new plant hybrids. The final aspect of the development concerns the integration of tissue culture with molecular genetics, which has developed into the rapidly expanding field of biotechnology.
23326885|An efficient protocol was developed for Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) cultivars using cotyledon explants. The transformation frequency was assessed in response to several different factors, including seed germination medium, seedling age, pre-culture duration, pre-culture and cocultivation media, inoculation medium, medium pH, washing medium, and kanamycin concentration in initial selection medium. Cotyledons excised from 6-d-old seedlings germinated on half-strength Murashige and Skoog's (MS) basal medium containing 8.9 M benzyladenine (BA) produced the most suitable explant material. Six days of explant pre-culture and 5 min inoculation with Agrobacterium culture in MS medium, containing 8.9 M BA, 9.3 M kinetin, and 0.4 mg l -1 thiamine at pH 5.0, significantly improved the transformation frequency. The addition of a tobacco feeder cell layer, however, did not lead to any significant improvement in the transformation rate. Kanamycin at 20 mg l -1 in the selection medium for the initial 10 d resulted in the highest transformation frequency. Combining the best conditions for each parameter resulted in an overall transformation efficiency of 44.3 %. Gene transfer was confirmed through PCR and Southern blot analyses. Mendelian inheritance ratios were found in 71.5 % of the independent transgenic lines from self-fertilized T 1 progeny. The optimized transformation procedure showed high transformation frequencies for all three tomato cultivars tested, namely, Kashi Vishesh (H-86), Hisar Anmol (H-24), and Kashi Amrit (DVRT-1), and is also expected to give reproducible results with other tomato cultivars.
20064922|This is a short review of the classical and new, natural and synthetic plant hormones and growth regulators (phytohormones) and highlights some of their uses in plant tissue culture. Plant hormones rarely act alone, and for most processes--at least those that are observed at the organ level--many of these regulators have interacted in order to produce the final effect. The following substances are discussed: (a) Classical plant hormones (auxins, cytokinins, gibberellins, abscisic acid, ethylene) and growth regulatory substances with similar biological effects. New, naturally occurring substances in these categories are still being discovered. At the same time, novel structurally related compounds are constantly being synthesized. There are also many new but chemically unrelated compounds with similar hormone-like activity being produced. A better knowledge of the uptake, transport, metabolism, and mode of action of phytohormones and the appearance of chemicals that inhibit synthesis, transport, and action of the native plant hormones has increased our knowledge of the role of these hormones in growth and development. (b) More recently discovered natural growth substances that have phytohormonal-like regulatory roles (polyamines, oligosaccharins, salicylates, jasmonates, sterols, brassinosteroids, dehydrodiconiferyl alcohol glucosides, turgorins, systemin, unrelated natural stimulators and inhibitors), as well as myoinositol. Many of these growth active substances have not yet been examined in relation to growth and organized development in vitro.
4293342|Salvia valentina Vahl and Salvia blancoana Webb & Heldr subsp. mariolensis Figuerola, two endemic species of Salvia from the Mediterranean coastal region of Spain, were successfully regenerated in vitro from adult plants using two Explant types (apical and nodal segments). Maximum shoot proliferation for both species was obtained with nodal Explants: for S. blancoana on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with
20065003|An efficient clonal propagation procedure for a Brazilian indica rice subspecies was developed with shoot apex explants. Shoot apices were excised from 4-d-old seedlings and cultured on MS medium supplemented with 8.9 M 6-benzyladenine. The efficiency of shoot production was influenced by growth regulators and light treatments to the donor plant. Explants derived from seedlings grown in the presence of 10.7 M naphthaleneacetic acid and in the absence of light showed significantly increased regeneration capacity as compared to control explants. Anatomical analysis of the new shoot meristems revealed that they originated from preexisting apical and axillary meristem as well as from the mesocotyl parenchyma.
41496443|Callus cultures from zygotic embryos of neem (Azadirachta indica) were initiated and analyzed for azadirachtin production. Medium components were screened and optimized using the statistical techniques of Plackett-Burman and response surface methodology. The Plackett-Burman design, with five medium components (Murashige and Skoog major salts, sucrose, casein hydrolysate, indole-3-acetic acid, and N-benzylaminopurine), was performed to screen the variables that significantly affected azadirachtin production. The three variablesMurashige and Skoog major salts, sucrose, and N-benzylaminopurinesignificantly affected azadirachtin production and were significant factors for optimization using response surface methodology. The experimental results were fitted to a second-order polynomial model with a correlation coefficient (R) of 0.9582. The optimal concentrations of variables for maximum azadirachtin production were full-strength Murashige and Skoog major salts, 5.68% sucrose, and 10.42 M N-benzylaminopurine. The maximum azadirachtin production by the predicted model was 5.13 mg/g dry weight, which was in agreement with the actual experimental value of 4.97 mg/g dry weight.
25623031|The influence of the nutrient composition of plant tissue culture media on axillary shoot proliferation and their preconditioning effect on subsequent adventitious shoot regeneration from pear leaves was investigated. The goal was to improve both micropropagation and regeneration of 'Bartlett' and 'Beurre Bosc' pear cultivars. DriverKuniyuki walnut (DKW) and Quoirin and Lepoivre (QL) nutrient media were found to be superior to Murashige and Skoog (MS) and Woody Plant Medium (WPM) for axillary shoot proliferation. Shoots on WPM exhibited some chlorosis. Axillary shoot culture on DKW would be preferred to that on QL due to the production of excessively short thin shoots on the latter medium. DKW also was superior to QL and MS for production of young expanding leaves for use as explants in adventitious regeneration. Leaf explants derived from shoot proliferation cultures grown on DKW or QL media produced more adventitious shoots than leaf explants from MS.
4293609| Tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.) is the most important forage species worldwide of the Festuca genus. Single genotype-derived embryogenic suspension cultures were established from tall fescue cultivar Kentucky-31, and were used as target cells for biolistic transformation. A chimeric hygromycin phosphotransferase gene (hph) was used as the selectable marker, and a chimeric -glucuronidase (gusA) gene was co-transformed with hph. Transgenic plants were recovered after microprojectile bombardment of suspension cells and subsequent selection in the presence of a high concentration of hygromycin. Fertile transgenic plants were obtained after vernalization under field conditions. T1 and T2 progenies were obtained after reciprocal crosses between transgenic and untransformed control plants. PCR and Southern hybridization analyses revealed a 1:1 segregation ratio for both transgenes in the T1 and T2 generations. Southern hybridization patterns were identical for T0, T1, and T2 plants. The results demonstrated for the first time the stable meiotic transmission of transgenes following Mendelian rules in transgenic tall fescue. 
23321154|A protocol for high-frequency callus, somatic embryogenesis, and plant regeneration for Tripsacum is described. Plants were regenerated from complete shoot meristems (34 mm) via organogenesis and embryogenesis. In organogenesis, the shoot meristems were cultured directly on a high cytokinin medium comprising 510 mg l-1 (22.244.4 M) 6-benzyladenine (BA). The number of multiple shoots varied from six to eight from each meristem. The time required for production of plants from organogenesis was rapid (46 wk). In contrast, callus was induced on an auxin medium and continuously cultured on an auxin medium for production of somatic embryos. Prolific callus with numerous somatic embryos developed within 34 wk when cultured on an auxin medium containing 5 mg l-1 (22.6 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). The number of shoots induced varied from two to five per callus. Regardless of the cultivars used, the frequency of callus induction and plant regeneration was between 48% and 94%. The seed germination procedures also were modified and resulted in a maximum of 6080% seed germination. Finally, the rate of T-DNA transfer to complete shoot meristems of Tripsacum was high on the auxin medium and was independent of whether super-virulent strains of Agrobacterium were used or not.
4293156|The expression of transgenes in plants can be inhibited by transcriptional or posttranscriptional silencing mechanisms. There is increasing evidence that transcriptional silencing involves changes at the chromatin level, which has raised an interest in the role of chromatin organization in plant gene expression in general. This article attempts to assemble the current evidence for changes at the chromatin level being used as a mechanism for regulating transcription of transgenes and endogenous genes. It discusses the role of epigenetic chromatin states and their control by molecular features, such as the position of a sequence in the genome, its composition and repetitiveness, and by environmental and developmental signals. It is proposed that transgenes and endogenous genes can undergo changes in their epigenetic states reflecting regulatory mechanisms that control plant development and the perception of environmental conditions. Understanding the regulation of epigenetic states will be essential to control stable expression of transgenes, a prime prerequisite for the exploitation of gene technology in modern agriculture.
20461705|Helicteres isora is a medicinal plant effective against asthma, diabetes, hypolipidemia, HIV, polio besides a good source of diosgenin. Seed dormancy and low natural fruit production rate make this plant a perfect candidate for developing an in vitro regeneration method. However, to date, no such work has been procured in this plant. An efficient method for plant regeneration via shoot organogenesis from callus cultures has been developed using nodal explants in H. isora. Murashige and Skoog (MS) media counting 2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D, 2.26 to 13.57 M), Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA, 2.85 to 17.13 M), Indole-3-butyric acid (IBA, 2.46 to 14.70 M), 6-Benzylaminopurine (BA, 2.22 to 13.32 M) and Kinetin (Kin, 2.32 to 13.92 M) either singly or in the following combinations (IAA + BA; IAA + Kin, and BA + Kin) produced granular callus except BA + Kin which resulted in compact, hard, greenish-white (CHGW) callus. The optimum CHGW callus (2.62 g fresh weight/ explant) was produced on MS media with 13.32 M BA + 2.32 M Kin with over 93% callus induction frequency. Optimum shoot organogenesis (67% frequency) was achieved in CHGW callus with lower level of BA (2.22 M) and Kin (2.32 M) and produced 3.2 shoots/0.5 g callus within 35 d of culture. Microshoots were rooted successfully (62% frequency) after 35 d of culture on 1/2MS containing 4.90 M IBA and hardened off. Antioxidant enzymes such as catalase, peroxidase, polyphenol oxidase, and biochemical parameters viz. hydrogen peroxide, reducing and nonreducing sugars, starch, proteins, phenols, and proline contents were studied in regenerating and nonregenerating CHGW calluses to establish a correlation between these parameters and shoot morphogenesis. All the enzyme activities and biochemical parameters were found more in regenerating callus than in nonregenerating except phenols.
4293619|A micropropagation protocol was developed using cacao somatic embryo-derived plants as a source for nodal and apical stem explants, and apical microcuttings. Microcuttings were efficiently rooted and developed into plantlets. Axillary meristems within the remaining decapitated plantlets subsequently developed and were used for production of additional microcuttings, with an average 2.4 growing shoots per decapitated stem. The remaining plantlets were maintained as microcutting stock plants. When nodal stem explants were cultured on thidiazuron medium, axillary buds proliferated and developed into shoots, which were excised and rooted. However, the efficiency of this method is lower than rooting of apical microcuttings harvested directly from stock plants. During root induction, short treatment with indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) increased the total percentage of rooted microcuttings up to 89%. Longer exposures to IBA increased the average number of roots per microcutting (from 1.7 to 5.2). Plant acclimatization after rooting was achieved with an average success of 87%. During several months of growth in the greenhouse, the micropropagated plants developed functional taproots. Currently, cocoa plants produced by this micropropagation method have been successfully acclimated to field conditions in Ivory Coast, Ghana, and Saint Lucia.
4293880| A modified encapsulation-dehydration cryopreservation protocol based on the replacement of cold acclimation with high-sucrose pretreatment was assessed for the long-term storage of Ribes germplasm. Four steps in the procedure were examined for eight genotypes: (1) pregrowth of shoot tips in sucrose-supplemented solid growth medium for 1 wk; (2) pretreatment of alginate-encapsulated shoot tips in sucrose-supplemented liquid culture medium for 21 h; (3) evaporative desiccation of encapsulated-dehydrated shoot tips; and (4) exposure to liquid nitrogen (LN). Differential responses were observed for black currant and gooseberry genotypes. Recovery of growing shoots was high (72-100%) at all four steps for the five black currants tested. Evaporative desiccation slightly decreased viability for some black currants and in some cases LN exposure reduced regrowth. In contrast, three gooseberry species had poor recovery from the initial sucrose culture step (32-67%), indicating sensitivity to osmotic stress, which predisposed these genotypes to poor survival after LN exposure (12-26%). The effectiveness of the modified protocol for conserving a wider range of Ribes genotypes was further ascertained by screening 22 genotypes derived from nine Ribes species. The procedure was successful for 18 of the 22 genotypes in the gene bank in Scotland. Screening genotype responses at the time of storage demonstrated regrowth 60% for 15 genotypes, and only four genotypes had regrowth of 0-28%. Additional genotypes were also added to the USDA cryopreserved Ribes collection. 
20461682|A cultivar of dessert banana, namely, Nanjanagudu Rasabale (NR), classified under group "silk" (of genotype AAB), is seriously under the threat of extinction due to its susceptibility to bacterial wilt and bunchy-top virus disease. A regeneration protocol using tissue culture method was developed (Venkatachalam et al. 2006), where a large number of plantlets were regenerated from leaf base explants. Simultaneously, a micropropagation protocol was also developed where high levels of up to 53.28 M of benzylamino purine (BAP) and 55.80 M of kinetin (Kn) were used. The progressive increase of cytokinins levels resulted in concomitant increase in shoot number, with a maximum of 80 shoot buds per segment in BAP (31.08 M). The plantlets were analyzed for their genetic stability using randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and inter simple sequence repeats (ISSR) markers. A total of 50 RAPD and 12 ISSR primers resulted in 625 distinct and reproducible bands showing homogeneous RAPD and ISSR patterns. Band intensity histogram of each gel confirmed their monomorphic nature with no genetic variation among the plantlets analyzed. The present study has established for the first time that the regeneration and rapid micropropagation protocol developed through the present study will be of great use in conserving the endangered cultivar-NR-without risk of genetic instability.
4293520|Salt-soluble polypeptide and a few isozymes were profiled to identify banana cultivars available in Andamans, India. Salt-soluble polypeptide profile was found to be inappropriate in cultivar identification. However, isozymes such as peroxidase could differentiate 'Jungli kela', Tissue Cultured Dwarf Cavendish' (TCDC), 'Lal kela', 'Rajbel', and 'Baratang wild', while esterase identified all the cultivars except 'Rajbel' and 'Tarkari kela'. The latter two cultivars could be identified with the use of malate dehydrogenase (MDH) and peroxidase profiles. MDH portrayed cultivar-specific distinct banding pattern in 'Khatta Champa', 'Tarkari kela', and 'Baratang wild'. 'China kela' could be identified easily by Superoxide dismutase (SOD). Amongst four isozymes, esterase was found to be most efficient in identifying eight cultivars amongst 10; hence this isozyme may be used often as a marker for cultivar identification of banana.
4293013| Somatic embryos could be induced from the cotyledons of zygotic embryos from immature fruits of Feijoa sellowiana Berg (Feijoa) in the presence of a wide range of concentrations of fructose, glucose, maltose, and sucrose. Mannitol or sorbitol alone were ineffective. The highest frequencies of induction (99%) and the greatest number of somatic embryos per expiant (134) were obtained with 0.4 M fructose and 0.3 M sucrose, respectively. This sucrose concentration also showed greater induction capacity than equimolar combinations of its monosaccharide constituents combined. Somatic embryo development was arrested at the globular stage at concentrations higher than 0.5 M of all the sugars tested. When transferred to solid germination medium containing 2.0 mg/liter (5.77 M) gibberellic acid, 0.5 mg/liter (2.32 M) kinetin, and 0.029 M sucrose, somatic embryos formed under 0.3 or 0.4 M sucrose had better germination capacity than those induced under lower (0.1 and 0.2 M) concentrations, as assessed by the frequency of explants presenting germinated embryos and by the number of plants obtained from those explants. On liquid media of similar composition somatic embryos did not germinate. Our data suggest that high (0.3 to 0.4 M) carbohydrate levels improve somatic embryogenesis by acting both as carbon source and as osmotic regulator. 
4293227|Potato plantlets (Solanum tuberosum L. cv. Benimaru) were cultured under photoautotrophic (without any sucrose in the nutrient medium and with enriched CO
25623021|Purpose-grown trees will be part of the bioenergy solution in the United States, especially in the Southeast where plantation forestry is prevalent and economically important. Trees provide a "living biomass inventory" with existing end-use markets and associated infrastructure, unlike other biomass species such as perennial grasses. The economic feasibility of utilizing tree biomass is improved by increasing productivity through alternative silvicultural systems, improved breeding and biotechnology. Traditional breeding and selection, as well as the introduction of genes for improved growth and stress tolerance, have enabled high growth rates and improved site adaptability in trees grown for industrial applications. An example is the biotechnology-aided improvement of a highly productive tropical Eucalyptus hybrid, Eucalyptus grandis  Eucalyptus urophylla. This tree has acquired freeze tolerance by the introduction of a plant transcription factor that up-regulates the cold-response pathways and makes possible commercial plantings in the Southeastern United States. Transgenic trees with reduced lignin, modified lignin, or increased cellulose and hemicellulose will improve the efficiency of feedstock conversion into biofuels. Reduced lignin trees have been shown to improve efficiency in the pre-treatment step utilized in fermentation systems for biofuels production from lignocellulosics. For systems in which thermochemical or gasification approaches are utilized, increased density will be an important trait, while increased lignin might be a desired trait for direct firing or co-firing of wood for energy. Trees developed through biotechnology, like all transgenic plants, need to go through the regulatory process, which involves biosafety and risk assessment analyses prior to commercialization.
20461659|The factors affecting the induction and development of somatic embryos and plantlet acclimatization of peach palm (Bactris gasipaes Kunth) were evaluated to establish an efficient regenerative protocol based on somatic embryogenesis. Mature zygotic embryos were cultured in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 0-40 M of picloram (4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid) and 0 or 5 M of 2-isopentyladenine (6-dimethylaminopurine) (2-iP). After 5 mo. in culture embryogenic callus arose from primary calli. Picloram (10 M) was effective in inducing embryogenic calli in 9.8% of the explants. The use of 1 M of AgNO enhanced embryogenic competence. Embryogenic calli showed an organized structure, a globular aspect, and were white to yellowish in color. Histological analyses showed that cell proliferation arose from subepidermal cells adjacent to vascular bundles, resulting in primary callus formed by a meristematic zone from which somatic embryos arose. Protein profile analyses revealed two high molecular mass bands in these embryogenic calli, but not in other tissues. Embryogenic calli were transferred to a culture medium containing 40 M of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 10 M of 2-iP, plus 1 g l of glutamine, hydrolyzed 0.5 g l casein, and activated 1.5 g l of charcoal. Morphogenetic responses achieved in this medium were the development of somatic embryos, rooting, and loss of embryogenic capacity. Somatic embryos were converted to plantlets on MS medium plus 24.6 M of 2-iP and 0.44 M of naphthalene acetic acid. Plantlets were maintained in MS medium with activated charcoal (1.5 g l) until they were 6 cm tall, and then acclimatized. After 16 wk, 84.26.4% survival was observed.
29736180|The presence of resistant selectable marker genes and other added DNAs such as the vector backbone sequence in transgenic plant might be an unpredictable hazard to the ecosystem as well as to human health, which have affected the safe assessment of transgenic plants seriously. Using minimal gene expression cassette (containing the promoter, coding region, and terminator) without vector backbone sequence for particle bombardment is the new trend of plant genetic transformation. In the present paper, we co-transformed the selectable marker bar gene cassette and non-selected cecropinB gene cassette into rice (Oryza sativa L.) by particle bombardment, then eliminated the selectable marker bar gene in R generation applying the hereditary segregation strategy and attained two safe transgenic plants only harboring cecropinB gene cassettes without any superfluous DNA. This is the fist report indicating that the combination of minimal gene cassettes transformation with the co-transformation and segregation strategy can generate selectable marker-free transgenic plants, which will promote the advancement in plant genetic engineering greatly.
24596345|The Poaceae includes some of the most important food, fiber, and bio-fuel crops. While there have been many studies investigating the function of phenylpropanoids in this family, most of our understanding is based on correlative data rather than experimental evidence. The current study was conducted to evaluate the roles of phenylpropanoids in the growth and development of Zea mays and to develop an experimental model for further investigations. Z. mays seedlings were grown in vitro with various concentrations of the competitive phenylalanine ammonia lyase inhibitor, 2-aminoindane-2-phosphonic acid (AIP). Ferulic acid, a downstream biosynthetic product, was added to determine if it could rescue the induced phenotypes. At lower concentrations of AIP, plants exhibited elongated roots and shoots, but at higher concentrations, growth was extremely stunted. At the cellular level, the epidermal cells of roots cultured with AIP exhibited a loss of intercellular adhesion and organization, and their cell walls were more readily degraded by enzymatic digestion. These characteristics were accompanied by significant reductions in primary cell wall autofluorescence, indicating that less ferulic acid and other phenolics were incorporated in the cell wall. The majority of these symptoms could be partially or entirely rescued by ferulic acid, providing further evidence that these differences were due to the inhibition of phenylpropanoid biosynthesis. This study provides experimental evidence supporting and expanding upon hypothesized functions of phenylpropanoids in the growth and development of Z. mays and provides an experimental system for further investigations in the Poaceae and other taxonomic groups.
4293401|Mineral deficiency symptoms were observed in leaves of yellow passionfruit plantlets grown in MS medium (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) with
4293455|The influence of PPM[TRADE MARK SIGN] on somatic embryogenesis in melon, adventitious shoot organogenesis in petunia, and androgenesis in tobacco was studied by culturing explants in regeneration media supplemented with 0, 2, 5 or
42568812|In order to establish a highly efficient and sustainable regeneration system, we systematically researched the key factors affecting direct shoot regeneration from Jatropha curcas leaves that were collected from Hainan (HN1-1), Lijiang (LJ3-1), and Yuxi (YX2-12) provinces in China. The L(3) orthogonal test of thidiazuron (TDZ), kinetin (Kn), and gibberellic acid (GA) were studied, and the explant type, growth age, and cultivar of leaves were subsequently investigated. Simultaneously, the combinations of plant growth regulators (PGRs) promoting shoot bud proliferation, elongation, and root establishment were examined. The results showed that the best medium for shoot bud induction was Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 1.0 mg/L TDZ, 0.5 mg/L Kn, and 0.5 mg/L GA. TDZ was the key PGR, while Kn and GA played an important role in shoot bud elongation and the number of shoots per leaf disk, respectively. The induced shoot buds proliferated and readily elongated in MS medium with 0.3 mg/L 6-benzylaminopurine and 0.01 mg/L indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and established roots in half-strength MS medium supplemented with 2.0 mg/L IBA. Using the previously described methods, the third to fifth leaves were found to be the best expiant source for shoot bud induction, with a high induction rate, large shoot numbers per disk, excellent proliferation, and consistent rooting. With the use of this regeneration system, the shoot bud induction rate increased from the reported rate of 53.5% to more than 90% using different expiants and cultivars, and the shoot number per leaf disk (shoot length>0.5 cm) increased from 1.6 to 3.5. Thus, this optimized regeneration system will effectively promote the propagation and genetic transformation of J. curcas.
4293775|Multiple shoots were induced from cotyledonary nodes of grasspea (Lathyrus sativus L.) derived from 7-d-old in vitro seedlings on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing
4292939|We describe a tissue culture procedure for somatic embryogenesis and plantlet regeneration in cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L. cv. Coker 312). Callused explants or individual globular embryos were transferred to basal media to induce somatic embryogenesis. To determine characteristic early indicators of successful germination and conversion, we identified six types of embryos that developed on basal media. Two of the six embryo types, designated as tulip-shaped and trumpet-shaped, could undergo conversion in preliminary tests, whereas the others had little or no developmental potential. Several media treatments designed to enhance the maturation of globular somatic embryos failed to increase the fraction of embryos which matured to form recoverable types. In efforts to improve plantlet recovery, tulip-shaped embryos were used in limited trials to contrast the effects of chemical and physical desiccation treatments on germination and conversion. The selective use of tulip-shaped somatic embryos, coupled with partial desiccation, seems to have augmented plant recovery. Growth habit, flowering, seed set, and lint production of most of the regenerated plants were comparable to seed-derived plants grown under the same conditions.
4293230|Somatic embryogenesis from mature zygotic embryos of
23016593|Climate change, alien species, and use of land for intensive farming and development are causing severe threat to the plant genetic diversity worldwide. Hence, conservation of biodiversity is considered fundamental and also provides the livelihoods to millions of people worldwide. Medicinal plants play a key role in the treatment of a number of diseases, and they are only the source of medicine for majority of people in the developing world. The tropical regions of the world supply the bulk of current global demand for "natural medicine," albeit with increasing threat to populations in the world and its genetic diversity. India is a major center of origin and diversity of crop and medicinal plants. India poses out 20,000 species of higher plants, one third of it being endemic and 500 species are categorized to have medicinal value. The Western Ghats is one of the major repositories of medicinal plants. It harbors around 4,000 species of higher plants of which 450 species are threatened. Currently, the number of species added to the red list category in this region is increasing, and the valuable genetic resources are being lost at a rapid rate. Demand for medicinal plants is increasing, and this leads to unscrupulous collection from the wild and adulteration of supplies. Providing high-quality planting material for sustainable use and thereby saving the genetic diversity of plants in the wild is important. During the last 25 years of intensive research, Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute has developed in vitro protocol for rapid regeneration and establishment of about 40 medicinally important rare and threatened plants of Western Ghats. In situ conservation alone would not be effective in safeguarding these important species. Thus, utilizing the biotechnoligical approach to complement ex situ conservation program is becoming vital. Propagating biotechnology tools in plant conservation program is a prerequisite to succeed in sustainable use and to complement the existing ex situ measures. In addition to propagation, storage of these valuable genetic resources is equally important. In vitro slow growth of 35 species and cryopreservation using embryo/meristem/seed in 20 different species of rare medicinal plants of this region is accomplished. Plants developed in vitro of ten medicinal plants, which have restricted distribution, were reintroduced in the natural habitat as well.
4293145| The photosynthetic cell suspension culture of soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr. cv. Corsoy] (SB-M) was successfully cryopreserved in liquid nitrogen using a preculture and controlled freezing to -40 C (two-step) freezing method. The effective method included a preculture treatment with gradually increasing levels of sorbitol added to the 3% sucrose already present in the medium. The cells were then placed in a cryoprotectant solution [10% DMSO (dimethylsulfoxide) and 9.1% sorbitol, or 10% DMSO and 8% sucrose], incubated for 30 min at 0 C, cooled at a rate of 1 C/min to -40 C, held at -40 C for 1 h, and then immersed directly into liquid nitrogen. The cells were thawed at 40 C and then immediately placed in liquid culture medium. The cell viabilities immediately after thawing were 75% or higher in all cases where cell growth resumed. The original growth rate and chlorophyll level of the cells was recovered within 40 to 47 d. If the sorbitol level was not high enough or the preculture period too short, growing cultures could not be recovered. Likewise, survival was not attained with cryoprotectant mixtures consisting of 15% DMSO, 15% glycerol, and 9.1% sucrose or 15% glycerol and 8% sucrose. The successful method was reproducible, thus allowing long-term storage of this and certain other unique photosynthetic suspension cultures in liquid nitrogen. 
20541002|To speed up the molecular analysis of cassava transgenic plants, we developed real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based methods that could be implemented as a tool in the primary scrutiny of putative transgenic plants. We tested for the presence of transgenes, estimated copy number, and quantified messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of genes introduced through Agrobacterium. Copy numbers for the genes -glucuronidase and hygromycin phosphortransferase were estimated in 15 transgenic lines. Most lines contained one or two copies of each gene; in some, the copy number was different for the two genes, suggesting rearrangements of the transferred DNA. Six of the 15 lines were analyzed by Southern blot. The copy number so estimated was concordant in most cases. Although real-time PCR was efficient for classifying transgenic lines with one or more transgenes inserted, for conclusive analysis of gene copy number, i.e., in a potential breeding line, the Southern blot may still be required. The transcript levels from both genes were determined in eight lines. High, medium, and low levels of mRNA expression were detected. No direct relationship between copy number and expression level of transgenes was obvious, suggesting that factors like position effects or DNA rearrangements led to differential expression. Quantitative mRNA expression data for the -glucuronidase gene agreed with results from histochemical staining. With real-time PCR we could detect high levels of transgene expression in 3-y-old cassava plants maintained and propagated as clones in the green-house. This is the first time that real-time PCR is reported to be used for transgene analysis in cassava.
4293016|Ploidy levels of 26 Zea mays L. anther culture-derived callus lines of the F1 hybrids (H99 x Pa91, Pa91 x FR16, and H99 x FR16) were determined at various times after culture initiation using flow cytometry (for 21 lines) or chromosome counting of callus cells or regenerated plants (for the remaining 5 lines). Twenty of the lines remained haploid, whereas 6 were diploid. The results from flow cytometry, after examining the DNA content of 5000 nuclei of each callus line, show that each callus line consisted of homogenous haploid or diploid cells. Thus for diploid callus lines, spontaneous chromosome doubling must have occurred before or in the early stages of androgenesis, before the initiation of callus cultures. These long-term callus cultures (growing for up to 38 mo.) have stably maintained their ploidy levels so it is unlikely that the culture conditions have caused chromosome doubling. The restriction fragment length polymorphism pattern obtained with 52 to 58 markers for each diploid callus line shows that all the diploid lines are homozygous diploid so each originated from a microspore and not from diploid maternal F1 hybrid tissue.
20171638| The effects of increasing concentrations of NaCl and CaCl on quince (Cydonia oblonga Mill. BA 29 clone) somatic embryogenesis and adventitious root regeneration were investigated. Leaves collected from in vitro-grown shoots were used as explants and induced for 2 d in liquid Murashige and Skoog medium containing 11.3 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Explants were then cultured on semisolid Murashige and Skoog medium enriched with 4.7 M kinetin and 0.5 M naphthaleneacetic acid under red light for 25 d and under white light for another 25 d. Two experiments were performed: in the first, NaCl was used at 0, 25, 50, 100, and 200 mM in factorial combination with CaCl at 3, 9, and 27 mM; in the second, NaCl was applied at 0, 5, 10, 20, 40, and 80 mM in combination with CaCl at 0.3, 1.0, and 3.0 mM. Quince leaves revealed the capacity to regenerate somatic embryos and/or adventitious roots. Quantitative and qualitative regeneration from leaves was affected by NaCl treatments: increasing NaCl concentrations, in combination with CaCl at 1 mM, led to an increase in the proportion of leaves producing somatic embryos only, and to a decrease of both leaves regenerating roots only and leaves simultaneously producing somatic embryos and adventitious roots. This suggests a beneficial effect of salt stress on the embryogenic process. The regeneration response decreased with increasing salt concentrations and was almost totally inhibited above 50 mM NaCl and 9 mM CaCl. The presence of CaCl in the culture medium apparently mitigated the effects of salt stress, but only when NaCl was applied at 40 mM. NaCl at 5 mM, in the presence of 0.3 or 1 mM CaCl, was favorable both to somatic embryo and root production. No value of the ratio Na/Ca was found to be optimal for the regeneration processes. 
4293942|We have developed optimum culture conditions for the large-scale propagation of chrysanthemum in balloon-type bioreactors to achieve vigorous growth and quality. The effects of
20461748|The dhlA gene of Xanthobacter autotrophicus encodes dehalogenase that hydrolyzes dihaloalkanes such as 1,2-dichloroethane (DCE) into cytotoxic halogenated alcohol and an inorganic halide. As plants do not contain dehalogenase activity, they grow normally in the presence of DCE. We tested the transgenic expression of the bacterial dhlA gene in rice as a conditional negative selection marker. We developed 24 transgenic callus lines containing dhlA gene driven by rice actin-1 promoter, verified the expression of dhlA by Northern blot analysis, and subjected these transgenic lines to DCE treatment. We found that, while untransformed callus (Nipponbare) was unaffected by the DCE treatment, most of the transformed lines displayed symptoms of toxicity, indicating that dhlA is an effective conditional negative selection marker gene for rice in vitro cultures.
29736185|Three cassava clones (SOM-1, "05", and "50" were cultured in vitro on MS medium plus sucrose (30 g L) and myo-inositol (100 mg L) without plant growth regulators and with additions of 0 (control), 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, and 3 g L NaCl to test their salt tolerance. The same cassava clones were cultivated in greenhouse conditions on a sandy soil substratum and irrigated with 20% strength Hoagland solution, and additions of 0, 4, and 8 g L of NaCl. Salinity negatively affected the survival, development, leaf water content, and mineral composition (mainly by accumulation of Cl and Na) of both in vitro and ex vitro plants, but with different intensity in each clone. In both conditions of culture (in vitro and ex vitro) clone SOM-1, from a desert arid saline zone of Somalia, was the most tolerant and clone "05", from a rainy region of Ivory Coast, the most sensitive. Clone "50" tolerance to in vitro salt treatments, although lower, was not significantly different from that of SOM-1 but the ex vitro response was similar to "05". In general, there was a correlation between in vitro and ex vitro behavior of the cassava plant regarding salt tolerance, which would allow the in vitro culture method to be used for selection of salt-tolerant plants of this crop.
4293173|The paper is the second of two papers about statistical considerations that researchers should make while doing in vitro plant biology research. The first paper focused on aspects from developing a plan to do research through the collection of data. This paper continues with information about editing data, handling outliers, analyzing quantitative and qualitative data, comparing treatment means, preparing graphs and tables, and presenting results.
4293441|As a first step towards applying biotechnology to blue grama, Bouteloua gracilis (H.B.K.) Lag. ex Steud., we have developed a regenerable tissue culture system for this grass. Shoot apices were isolated from 3-d-old seedlings and cultured in 15 different growth regulator formulations combining 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), Picloram (4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid),
4293853| Camptothecin, produced by Camptotheca acuminata, is a pharmaceutically important compound. Transgenic technology has potential uses for the enhancement of camptothecin production; however, an efficient plant regeneration protocol for C. acuminata is not currently available. Factors that affected successful seedling germination were evaluated. The regeneration potential of various parts of seedlings was tested. Camptothecin production in regenerated plants was compared to its production in calluses and the original seedlings. Dark incubation and seed coat removal led to a higher germination rate and a higher survival rate after germination. The best shoot induction medium was found to be Gamborg's B5 medium + 8.9 M benzyladenine. Among the calluses induced from various parts of seedlings, leaf petiole calluses, leaf disc calluses, and cotyledon calluses regenerated shoots, but internode calluses did not. Furthermore, leaf petiole calluses and leaf disc calluses regenerated normal shoots, while cotyledon calluses regenerated hyperhydric shoots. Moreover, leaf petiole calluses had a higher shoot regeneration rate, 50% versus 9%, and a higher shoot number, 6.2  0.5 versus 2.0  0.3, than did leaf disc calluses on the best shoot induction medium. It took 4-6 wk to regenerate shoots after transfer into shoot induction media. Camptothecin concentration in the regenerated plants was significantly higher than that in the calluses and similar to that in the original seedlings. In conclusion, leaf petioles provide efficient plant regeneration of C. acuminata. 
4293019|Embryogenic cell cultures of Picea mariana (black spruce) and the species complex Picea glauca-engelmannii (interior spruce) were maintained either as suspensions in liquid medium in 250 or 500-ml-capacity shake-flasks, 7-liter-capacity airlift or mechanically stirred bioreactors, or on agar-solidified medium. Cultures from each of the maintenance conditions were subsequently transferred to agar-solidified LP medium containing
4293928|In vitro regeneration of plants from root culture of Melia azedarach seedlings was obtained. The origin and mode of development of the regenerated shoot buds were studied by means of histological analysis and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Maximum shoot bud regeneration was achieved when root segments were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium at quarter strength with 3% sucrose and
29736159|A protocol for the induction of somatic embryogenesis from immature zygotic embryos of Rosa bourboniana, a scented rose species, was established. Somatic embryos were induced after 8 wk of inoculation of zygotic embryos on MS medium supplemented with different concentrations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (5-15 M). In addition to 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid concentrations, somatic embryogenesis was also influenced by the month of collection of the explant and the stage of maturity of the hip. Maximum embryogenic response (16.6%) was observed using 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (15 M), from green hips in the month of September. The use of L-proline (800 mgl) was found to be optimum for secondary embryogenesis. On periodic subculturing, the cultures formed somatic embryos sustainably over a period of 18 mo. For somatic embryo germination, 6-benzylaminopurine (5 M) was found to be most suitable. Rooted plants ware transferred successfully to soil and appear morphologically normal under greenhouse conditions. Transfer of hardening was most suitable during the active growth period between June and September.
20461628|A viable protocol has been developed for direct and indirect shoot regeneration of Vernonia cinerea. To establish a stable and high-frequency plant regeneration system, leaf and stem explants were tested with different combinations of -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), and benzylaminopurine (BA). Lateral buds on nodal explants grew into shoots within 2 wk of culture in Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with 20.9 M BA. Excision and culture of nodal segments from in vitro-raised shoots on fresh medium with the same concentration of BA facilitated development of more than 15 shoots per node. Similarly leaf, nodal, and internodal explants were cultured on MS basal medium supplemented with different concentrations of BA, NAA, and IAA either alone or in combinations for callus induction and organogenesis. Shoot buds and/or roots were regenerated on callus. Shoot buds formed multiple shoots within 4 wk after incubation in induction medium. Adventitious buds and shoots proliferated when callus was cut into pieces and subcultured on MS basal medium containing 20.9 M BA and 5.3 M NAA. This combination proved to be the best medium for enhanced adventitious shoot bud multiplication, generating a maximum of 50 shoots in 4 wk. This medium was also used successfully for shoot proliferation in liquid medium. Root formation was observed from callus induced in medium containing 8.05-13.4 M NAA. Regenerated shoots exhibited flowering and root formation in MS basal medium without any growth regulators. Plantlets established in the field showed 85% survival and exhibited identical morphological characteristics as the donor plant.
24596336|Factors affecting microspore embryogenesis of Ethiopian mustard (Brassica carinata A. Braun) were evaluated, including flower bud length, pollen developmental stage, and microspore density. An embryogenic frequency of 300 embryos per Petri plate was observed with NLN (Nitsch-Lichter-Nitsch) medium supplemented with 13% sucrose, 3.03.4-mm-long buds, and a plating density of 65,000 microspores/ml. About 65% of the microspores from buds 3.03.4-mm long were at the late uninucleate stage. Microspore-derived embryos were successfully transferred to solid medium for germination. After 4 wk, the resulting plantlets were transplanted to a soilless potting mixture and grew well under greenhouse conditions.
4293018|A method for rapid production of somatic embryos having normal developmental morphology, from the nucellar tissue of three monoembryonic Indian mango varieties, namely, Alphonso, Mundan and Baneshan was developed. Somatic embryogenesis could be induced using Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) 5.0 mg/liter (
23016751|An efficient in vitro propagation protocol, applicable both to young and mature explants of two Thymus spp., results in genetically stable plantlets. In vitro-grown shoot tips of Thymus vulgaris L. were exposed to cytokinins (6-benzyladenine, kinetin, and thidiazuron) alone or in combination with auxins, gibberellic acid (GA 3 ) and/or silver nitrate in order to optimize in vitro shoot proliferation. Optimum shoot proliferation (97% regeneration rate, with 8.6 shoots produced per explant) was obtained when semi-solid Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium was supplemented with 1 mg L -1 kinetin and 0.3 mg L -1 GA 3 . Rooting of the shoots was easily obtained on semi-solid MS medium that was either hormone-free or supplemented with auxins. However, the best root apparatus (92.5% rooting rate, with 19 adventitious roots per shoot) developed on MS medium supplemented with 0.05 mg L -1 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Genetic stability was confirmed in the in vitro-germinated mother plant as well as the shoots that underwent two, four, six, eight, or ten cycles of in vitro subculturing by random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis. When applied to the micropropagation of mature shoot tips of T. longicaulis C. Presl subsp. longicaulis var. subisophyllus (Borbs) Jalas, the optimized in vitro propagation protocol resulted in a 97.5% shoot regeneration rate, with five shoots formed per explant, and 100% rooting. Rooted plantlets of both species were transferred to 250-mL plastic pots and successfully acclimatized by gradually reducing the relative humidity.
4293321|A micropropagation protocol for Artocarpus altilis (breadfruit, yellow cultivar) using shoot tip explants taken from mature trees is outlined. Cultures were initiated from shoot tip explants (1-2 mm in length) on either N5K or N15K (Margara, 1978) macronutrient formulation, MS (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) micronutrients and vitamins and 6-benzyladenine (BA,
20540990|To date, plantlet culture has not been explored as a means to obtain secondary metabolites in vitro. However, plantlets readily produce desirable secondary metabolites, which may not be produced in cell suspension or callus cultures. To optimize plantlet growth in vitro, the influences of various physical environments on the growth (fresh weight), morphogenesis (leaf, root, and shoot number), and volatile carbon metabolites (i.e. monoterpene, (-)-carvone) of Mentha spicata L. (spearmint) plants were studied. The carvone content in different portions of sterile plantlets was analyzed. Carvone was only produced from the foliar regions of cultured plantlets and was absent in the callus and roots. The influence of physical support (e.g., agar, glass gravel, liquid, platform or sponge), frequency of media replacement, and culture vessel capacity on spearmint plantlets growth and carvone production was tested. A comparative study was conducted testing the growth, morphogenesis, and secondary metabolism occurring with three different spearmint cultivars grown in either culture tubes containing 25 ml agar medium or in an automated plant culture system (APCS; a sterile hydroponics system) employing a 1-1 medium reservoir. Increasing the number of media immersions (4, 8, 12 or 16 immersions d) of plantlets growing in the APCS increased growth and morphogenesis responses. Generally, higher culture growth rates resulted in lower carvone treatment (mg carvone g-FW); however, overall total carvone ((mg carvone g-FW)g culture FW) increased because of the production of greater biomass obtained per vessel.
4293378|Regeneration of adventitious shoots was obtained in over 80% of explants, consisting of wounded cotyledonary nodes of Acacia mangium, by culturing germinated seedlings on DKW medium with combinations of
40663762|Cell suspension cultures of Cyperus aromaticus were established from the yellow friable callus derived from the root expiants of in vitro plantlets. Four callus cell lines were selected based on their growth index from two populations of callus cultures originated from the mother plants grown in two different locations. The selected four cell lines (Zl, Z6, P4, P9) showed uniform cell growth but produced different amounts of juvenile hormone III (JHIII).The Zl cell line possessed fast-growing characteristics, produced a high JHIII content, and was chosen as the elite cell line for an optimization study of C. aromaticus cell suspension cultures. An inoculum cell mass of 0.3 g from 12-d cultures in 30 ml culture medium was found to be the optimum inoculum size and culture age for establishing the cell suspension culture of C. aromaticus. MS basal medium supplemented with 4.5 mg/1 2,4-D and 5.5 mg/1 NAA was found to be the best medium for production of maximum cell biomass and JHIII. These results indicated that JHIII can be produced from suspension culture of C. aromaticus using a single-stage cell-culture system.
23016596|More than one third of the USA's federally listed endangered and threatened plants are endemic to Hawaii. Because of the accelerating rate of environmental pressures resulting from habitat degradation to loss, the Hawaiian Rare Plant Program (HRPP, Lyon Arboretum, Honolulu, Hawaii) utilizes in vitro culture and seed storage to rescue, recover, and restore Hawaii's most critically endangered native plant taxa. These in vitro methods complement existing ex situ and in situ efforts in the state. Wild-collected seeds tend to be hard to clean, and obtaining contamination-free seeds or embryos without damage or over sterilization is one of the most difficult obstacles in the successful establishment of in vitro cultures. Loss of rare and valuable propagation material occurs when seed samples succumb to contamination or mortality during the initial disinfestation stage. This study reviews pre-treatments and provides examples of three general disinfestation protocols successfully used in the HRPP to establish axenic ovule and embryo cultures of some endangered Hawaiian species. Three disinfestation protocols are described: bleach sterilization, gas sterilization, and ethanol dip and flame. Since 1998, the HRPP has been successful in establishing in vitro cultures of 135 endangered Hawaiian plant taxa representing 30 genera.
20461718|Transgenic cells containing inserted antibiotic resistance genes and linked genes of interest are routinely selected by exposure to antibiotics. Concerns over the widespread use of antibiotic resistance genes as selectable markers for genetic transformation have motivated researchers to find alternative selection procedures. This study describes the evaluation of an alternative protocol using temperature as the selection tool. In this method, a population of host cells is transformed with a foreign DNA construct that includes at least one gene of interest and an additional sequence encoding a protein that enhances cellular high temperature tolerance. Following transformation, the population of cells is transiently cultured under temperature conditions wherein growth of non-transformed cells is suppressed or prevented, while growth of cells containing the DNA construct continues. Thus, survival and/or significant additional growth is an indication that a cell has been successfully transformed with the DNA construct and can be subsequently recovered for further growth and development. The present study used a heat shock protein (hsp101) gene from Arabidopsis thaliana under the control of a constitutive promoter as a selectable marker; however, alternative potentially suitable genes include: other heat shock proteins; heat shock transcription factors; cold regulated proteins (COR); or protein transcription factors associated with the induction of cold tolerance.
41496516|In vitro tissue culture protocols were tested for propagation of Echinacea purpurea, Echinacea pallida and Echinacea angustifolia in order to obtain biomass for the production of cichoric acid, which is the major active compound in the Echinacea extracts. The in vitro culture process was initiated by seed germination on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium. Multiplication was achieved on MS medium supplemented with naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), indole-3-butyric acid 2-iso-pentenyladenine (2iP), and N-benzyladenine (BA) in different concentrations. Shoot expiants produced the highest number of shootlets on MS medium, which was supplemented with 0.1 mg/l 2iP and 0.1 mg/l IBA. RAPD markers revealed genetic polymorphism in some instances between in vitro generated plantlets such as for E. purpurea plantlets analyzed with the OPO-8 primer. RAPD markers generated with the primer 4A-29 revealed low levels of genetic variation between in vitro plantlets for all three species of Echinacea, while remaining RAPD markers revealed no variation. Content of cichoric acid in leaves, shoots, and callus was analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography/MS and was identified in all studied samples, independent of species or tissue type. Highest levels (0.39-0.73 mg/g dw) were observed in shoots and leaves.
4293368|A simple and efficient method has been developed to improve plant regeneration from protoplasts isolated from >1-yr-old cell-suspension culture of Indica rice (Oryza sativa) cv. Pusa Basmati 1. A two-step regeneration procedure, involving the transfer of calluses to shoot-regeneration medium containing 1% (w/v) agarose prior to culture on a medium containing 0.4% (w/v) agarose, was found to improve plant regeneration. High concentrations of kinetin in the regeneration medium were also found to be beneficial. The two-step regeneration procedure, combined with a high concentration of kinetin (
41432441|The objective of this study was to improve shoot regeneration from grapefruit. Because many commercially grown citrus types are apomictic, important in vitro applications such as Agrobacterium-mediated transformation commonly use epicotyl expiants from in vitro seedlings; thus, adequate adventitious shoot production is an important prerequisite for efficient use of these applications. Eight plant growth regulators were studiedsix cytokinins (6-benzylaminopurine, kinetin, zeatin trans-isomer, 6-[Y,Y-dimethylallylamino] purine, zeatin riboside trans-isomer and meta-topolin) and two auxins (-naphthalene acetic acid and indole-3-acetic acid). An iterative design strategy was followed that included mixture and mixture-amount experimental designs suitable for resolving proportional and concentration effects; in vitro effects of cytokinins and auxins are affected by both proportion and concentration. One-centimeter-long expiants were excised from the epicotyl of etiolated, in Wiro-grown seedlings. Expiants were placed onto experimental formulations and cultured in growth cabinets at 27C over 6 wk, which included 2 wk in the dark followed by 4 wk in the light. The results indicated that (1) 6-benzylaminopurine or zeatin riboside were the most effective cytokinins for inducing shoot regeneration in citrus; (2) zeatin riboside singly or in combination with indole-3-acetic acid resulted in the highest quality, the greatest number of expiants with buds/shoots, and the greatest shoot number; and (3) 6-benzylaminopurine and indole-3-acetic acid improved shoot regeneration vs. 6-benzylaminopurine at a considerably lesser cost than zeatin riboside and indole-3-acetic acid.
4293693|An Agrobacterium-mediated transformation system for Eleutherococcus sessiliflorus was established using uidA gene coding for the
23016746|Tissue culture medium is often overlooked as a factor in plant biotechnology. Most work uses Murashige and Skoog (MS; Physiol Plant in 15:473497, 1962) inorganic medium formulation, which is not likely optimal for many of the plant systems where it is used. This current study of macronutrient factors simultaneously altered media volume and amount of tissue (plants per vessel), sucrose, nitrogen (as NO 3 - and NH 4 + ions), and K + in a d-optimal design space with only 55 experimental units (including five true replicates). Meso- and micro-nutrient concentrations were lowered (5% of MS) to determine which elements were most critical to plantlet quality. Plantlet quality was quantified by multiplication in the laboratory and survival and growth in the greenhouse. Plantlets grown at the lowest plant density, the lowest macronutrient concentration (20 mM), and equimolar proportions of NH 4 + /K + resulted in the best multiplication ratio and 100% greenhouse survival. Multiplication ratio in vitro and survival in the greenhouse were well correlated with one another. Laboratory dry mass, media use, sucrose use, and the uptake of the macronutrients NO 3 - , NH 4 + , and K + were not well correlated with plantlet quality. Plantlets with the greatest uptake of P, Ca, Mg, and Mn had the best multiplication in the laboratory and on subsequent transfer, acclimatized and grew fastest in the greenhouse. Phosphorus was shown to be most depleted in media. This work demonstrates a platform to simultaneously optimize several nutritive components of tissue culture media to produce plantlets that perform well in both laboratory and greenhouse environments. Plant quality was related with factors outside the macronutrient design, and this platform indicated where to expand the experimental space. Fixed, flat-screen presentations revealed less of the response surface than interactive profiles driven by the reader.
4293900|Silicone tubing is frequently used for gas exchange in cell culture systems, due to its biocompatibility and high permeability to CO
23255672|The relative expression of developmentally regulated genes was analyzed during zygotic embryo development in Pinus taeda and somatic embryo development/maturation in P. taeda and Pinus oocarpa. The following four embryo samples were studied: zygotic pro-embryos and somatic embryogenic suspensor masses; round/globular, early cotyledonary, and late cotyledonary. The relative transcript levels of six genes of interest: legumin-/vicilin-like, group 4 late embryogenesis abundant, homeodomain-leucine zipper I, 26S proteasome regulatory subunit S2, and clavata-like, associated with different aspects of embryo development, were analyzed by real-time PCR. In both pine species, the relative transcript levels for legumin-/vicilin-like storage proteins and the late embryogenesis abundant protein accumulated gradually through somatic embryo maturation, in contrast to zygotic embryos, where transcripts increased significantly to their highest levels at the late cotyledonary stage. The homeodomain-leucine zipper I relative transcript accumulation pattern differed between somatic and zygotic embryos. This difference was attributed to differences in cell-type compositions between the embryogenic suspensor masses and pro-embryos. Additionally, in P. oocarpa, the transcript levels of homeodomain-leucine zipper I remained high after the transfer of somatic embryos to maturation conditions, but declined during maturation in P. taeda. The highest 26S proteasome regulatory subunit S2 relative transcript levels in P. taeda were in round/globular somatic and zygotic embryos and in embryogenic suspensor masses and round/globular P. oocarpa somatic embryos. Finally, the relative transcripts levels for the clavata-like gene were more predominant in round/globular, early cotyledonary, and embryogenic suspensor masses in P. taeda and P. oocarpa, respectively. Somatic embryos exhibited relative gene expression patterns similar to their zygotic counterparts, although some differences were noted between zygotic and somatic embryos, as well as between the different pine somatic embryo systems.
4293022|Two representative cultivars of Cicer arietinum, the desi-type cv.Annigeri and the kabuli-type cv.ICCV6, were regenerated in vitro and clonally propagated from cotyledonary nodes and meristem tips. The explants were dissected from 1-wk-old seedlings aseptically germinated on WH medium. In both cultivars, all nodes cultured on B5 medium supplemented with
20064907|Water constitutes nearly 100% of the volume and 95% of the mass of gelled plant tissue culture media. Even so, plant growth and development responses observed to occur with relatively small changes in gelling agent concentration (0.1% of media total mass) have been attributed to changes in media water availability. Measurements with three alternative direct techniques, specific for measuring physiochemical water availability indicated the effects of a change of this magnitude in gelling agent concentration negligibly affected the media water potential and water conductivity. Sensitive pressure membrane measurements indicated that incremental gelling agent concentration increases of 0.1% (of media total mass) within the range normally used for plant tissue culture media, depressed water matric potential only 1-2 cm HO (
4293419|Nine soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] cultivars representing midwestern, mid-south, and southern US growing regions were evaluated at each of three locations (Athens, GA; Lexington, KY; and Wooster, OH) using uniform embryogenic induction and proliferation protocols in order to evaluate the portability of soybean somatic embryogenic protocols to different locations. The experimental design minimized variation between locations by having all cultivars present at all locations on all days. A quantitative weighted score for primary embryo induction was developed on average embryo number per explant and was used to describe non-embryogenic, poorly embryogenic, moderately embryogenic, and highly embryogenic responses. Ranking of cultivars remained similar across all locations, indicating a uniform transportability of the protocol, at least as far as embryo induction is concerned. Continued proliferation of embryogenic cultures was also measured using a repetitive growth measure but few meaningful conclusions could be made due to the high level of variability including inconsistent growth of cultures between each subculture. Overall, several cultivars were identified as being uniformly embryogenic or non-embryogenic at the primary induction phase at all locations, and we predict that those embryogenic cultivars could be used by any laboratory for high-efficiency induction of embryogenesis. The best of these cultivars, 'Jack', was uniformly responsive across all locations and should be selected as the genotype most likely to yield positive results when attempting to culture and genetically engineer soybeans via embryogenic protocols.
20064961|Combining stepper-motors for microscope stage movement with a specially designed software program has led to the establishment of an efficient cell tracking system. Cell immobilization, fixed reference points for calibration of target cell positions, and a video recording system complete the cell finder system. Specific cells can be identified (either beforehand or in retrospect), their locations fixed, and subsequent development of the individual cells monitored daily using computer-assisted relocation. In this way, the specific cell type capable of sustained division and regeneration has recently been identified within a low efficiency protoplast system of a recalcitrant species, sugarbeet. These totipotent cells originated from stomatal guard cells. Isolation and purification procedures were then optimized in a directed way to yield millions of guard cell protoplasts (GCPs). Using polyethylene glycol (PEG)-mediated gene transfer and glucuronidase (GUS) activity for transient expression studies proved that GCPs were amenable to transformation. Gene transfer efficiency was high, as was the number of stably transformed plants that can be produced. At present, the optimized procedure yields 600 transgenic individuals per person per year. This number allows for the selection of the best plants with regard to copy number, DNA insert size, gene expression, and field performance. Prospects for future application of the cell finder system will be discussed.
20461637|Hawthorn (Crataegus spp.) is an important plant with a long history as an ornamental and a source of medicine. A protocol is outlined for adventitious bud regeneration from leaf and cotyledon explants of Chinese hawthorn (C. pinnatifida Bge. var. major N.E.Br.). Adventitious buds were induced on both the leaves of sprouting winter buds and the leaves of in vitro plants, but the percentage of bud regeneration from leaves of in vitro plants was very low-less than 6%. On N6 medium supplemented with 31.08 M BA and 9.67 M NAA, the percentages of bud regeneration from leaves of sprouting winter buds of cultivars "Liaohong" and "Qiujinxing" were 31.4% and 17.6%, respectively. The regeneration abilities of three kinds of cotyledon explants, immature cotyledon, mature cotyledon, and cotyledon leaf, were compared. The percentage of bud regeneration from cotyledon leaves was higher. On MS media supplemented with 4.44 M BA and 4.54-9.08 M TDZ, the percentages of bud regeneration from cotyledon leaves of cultivars "Qiujinxing" and "Xiajinxing" were 27.7  7.8% and 20.1  4.7%, respectively, and the numbers of buds per explant were 5.9  1.6 and 3.2  0.7, respectively. On B5 medium supplemented with 2.22 M BA, 2.32 M Kn, and 0.57 M IAA, adventitious buds grew quickly and 80-100% of buds developed into shoots. The shoots rooted successfully with the two-step rooting method. Ninety days after transplantation, more than 80% plants were survived. This system of adventitious bud regeneration from leaf and cotyledon explants could be useful for the genetic transformation and polyploidization of Chinese hawthorn.
4293689|Plant genetic engineering has contributed substantially to the understanding of gene regulation and plant development, in the generation of transgenic organisms for widespread usage in agriculture, and has increased the potential uses of crops for industrial and pharmaceutical purposes. As the application of genetically engineered plants has widened, so has the need to develop methods to fine-tune control of transgene expression. The availability of a broad spectrum of promoters that differ in their ability to regulate the temporal and spatial expression patterns of the transgene can dramatically increase the successful application of transgenic technology. Indeed, a variety of promoters is necessary at all levels of genetic engineering in plants, from basic research discoveries, concepts and questions, to development of economically viable crops and plant commodities, to addressing legitimate concerns raised about the safety and containment of transgenic plants in the environment. This review covers the characterization and usage of a broad range of promoters employed in plant genetic engineering, including the widespread use of plant promoters with viral and plant origin that drive constitutive expression. Also covered are selected tissue-specific promoters from fruit, seed and grain, tubers, flowers, pistils, anther and pollen, roots and root nodules, and leaves and green tissue. Topics also include organellar promoters, and those found in specific cell types, as well as the development and evaluation of inducible (endogenous and exogenous origin) and synthetic plant promoter systems. Discussions on the relevance and potential pitfalls within specific applications are included.
4293169|Elicitation of anthocyanin-producing cells of ohelo (Vaccinium pahalae) by both biotic (purified
40981341|Medusagyne oppositifolia is a critically endangered monotypic species with only a few trees left in the wild. Due to invasion and habitat clearance, genetic diversity of this species has been reduced to an alarmingly low level. Long-term in vitro cultures of M. oppositifolia were slow-growing and eventually lost the ability to multiply and root. Because of the lack of new seed and vegetative materials, efforts were made to rejuvenate the existing cultures. This was attempted by a series of steps involving serial pruning of the shoot tips and growing on a modified MS medium containing silver nitrate and thidiazuron. Rapid cycling clonal propagules were produced this way from cultured nodes. Isolated shoots were rooted on Florialite  , and rooted plants were weaned in a transition stage using a Nutrient Film Technique (NFT) hydroponic system before being completely weaned under glasshouse conditions. The importance of screening cultures for multiplication and rooting efficiency during long-term maintenance is discussed in the context of stress metabolite production and its influence on growth in culture. Factors contributing to rejuvenation of old cultures, application of unconventional supporting systems for rooting and application of the hydroponic system as a weaning tool are also discussed.
42568707|Plant cell suspension cultures can be used to make safe vaccines at a lower cost than conventional procedures. An inducible gene expression system provides an opportunity to optimize the conditions of vaccine production in a plant system. In this investigation, a dexamethasoneinducible Norwalk virus capsid protein (NVCP) gene expression system has been developed in cell suspension cultures for four different plant species: tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum), rice (Oryza sativa L.), cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.), and slash pine (Pinus elliottii Engelm.) via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Resulting transgenic cell lines were confirmed by Southern blot analyses and NVCP gene expression was confirmed by Northern blot analysis. NVCP gene expression was observed in all 24 cell lines tested, but there were minor differences in transgene expression among the transgenic cell lines. The highest level of NVCP gene expression was observed 48 h after addition of the glucocorticoid hormone dexamethasone (10 mg/l), for all transgenic cell lines derived from four different plant species. This investigation demonstrated that expression of NVCP in different transgenic cell lines and in different species was tightly controlled by the inducer, and the inducible gene expression system could be useful in controlling expression of NVCP or similar proteins for production of vaccines in cultured plant cells.
4293722|A micropropagation procedure for the adult cherimoya tree (Annona cherimola Mill.) is described. Axillary shoot proliferation was obtained after culturing nodal sections from Annona cherimola cv. 'Fino de Jete', on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
41496509|The effects of carbon, nitrogen, phosphate, and copper on cell growth and production of the isoflavone puerarin by suspension cultures of Pueraria tuberosa (Roxb. ex. Willd.) DC were investigated. Among the various sugars evaluated (glucose, galactose, fructose, maltose, and sucrose), use of sucrose in the medium led to the maximum accumulation of puerarin. A sucrosefeeding strategy in which additional sucrose was added to the flasks 15 d into the culture cycle stimulated both cell biomass and puerarin production. The maximum production of puerarin was obtained when a concentration balance of 20: 60 mM NH/NO was used as the nitrogen source. Alteration in the concentration balance of nitrogen components (NH/NO 60: 20 mM) or the use of either NH or NO alone decreased biomass production and puerarin accumulation compared with the control culture (NH/NO 20: 20 mM). High amounts of phosphate (2.5 and 5 mM) in the medium inhibited puerarin production whereas 0.625 mM phosphate promoted puerarin production (68.3 g/g DW on day 25). An increase in Cu concentration from 0.025 to 0.05 mg/l in the P. tuberosa cell culture medium resulted in a 2.2-fold increase in puerarin production (up to 141 g/g DW on day 25) but reduced cell culture biomass.
42568792|Transgenic solutions are being widely explored to develop huanglongbing (HLB) resistance in citrus. A critical component of a transgenic construct is the promoter, which determines tissue specificity and level of target gene expression.This study compares the characteristics of five promoters regulating the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene in the trifoliate hybrid rootstock US-802. Two of the selected promoters direct high levels of constitutive transgene expression in other dicotyledonous plants: 2X35S, the tandem-repeat promoter of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S gene and bul409S, a truncation of the potato polyubiquitin promoter. Because Candidatus Liberibacter, the Gramnegative bacterium associated with HLB, infects only the phloem tissue, it may be advantageous to limit transgene expression to the vascular tissue and reduce expression in the fruit. Thus, we also tested three promoters that demonstrate phloem specificity when transformed and expressed in other plants: WDV, from wheat dwarf geminivirus; AtSUC2, the sucrose-H+ symporter gene promoter from Arabidopsis; and CsSUS, the sucrose synthase promoter from citrus. Histochemical staining for GUS activity was observed throughout leaf and stem tissues for the constitutive promoters, while the three phloem-specific promoters largely showed the expected tissue-specific staining. Expression of GUS in some individual transformants with promoters CsSUS and WDV appeared leaky, with some laminar tissue staining. Relative quantification of qRT-PCR data revealed a wide range of mRNA abundance from transgenics with each of the five promoters. Fluorometry also revealed that GUS activity differed depending on the promoter used, but mRNA levels and enzyme activity were not highly correlated.
20171613|The use of plants for production and delivery of vaccine proteins has shown promise in research conducted during the past decade. Genes encoding bacterial and viral antigens are faithfully expressed, processed, and assembled in plant cells to form immunogenic proteins. Studies in animals and humans showed that ingestion of transgenic potato containing vaccine proteins caused production of antigen-specific antibodies in serum and mucosal secretions. Future studies must aim to improve antigen expression and to develop processes to formulate plant material for antigen stability and convenient oral delivery. Furthermore, production methods should ensure the containment of pharmaceutical crops and prevent contamination of the food supply.
4293461|The effect of exogenously fed hormones on hairy root cultures of Cichorium intybus L. cv. Lucknow Local was studied. It was seen that auxin in the presence of low levels of kinetin induces rapid disorganization in hairy root cultures of C. intybus, ultimately to form suspension cultures, and this process was associated with the decrease in coumarin content in the cells. Of various treatments, it was observed that with an increase in the auxin : cytokinin ratio, the biomass decreased with the increase in disorganization index during the culture period of 28 d. The disorganization index was less when the inoculum size was enhanced to 10-fold. The total endogenous indole-3-acetic acid titers and indole-3-acetic acid oxidase activity also decreased with an increase in disorganization index, and was independent of initial inoculum size, with only a magnitude difference. The total coumarin content strictly correlated with growth in all the treatments. In contrast, exogenously supplied gibberellic acid at the
20461743|Dioscorea zingiberensis is an important medicinal plant and a source of diosgenin in China. We report research on the induction, characteristics, and chemical assays of polyploid plants of D. zingiberensis. Immersing calli in 0.3% colchicine solution for 16 h prior to culture induced a high number of autotetraploid plants. The induction rate reached as high as 36.7% of treated calli. More than 50 lines of autotetraploid plants were obtained. All tetraploid plants showed typical polyploidy characteristics. Twenty selected tetraploid lines were transferred to the field for determination of morphological characteristics and for chemical assays. Six elite lines have been selected for further selection and breeding into new varieties for commercial production.
42568874|With the growing shortage of oil, coal, and other traditional fossil fuels, scientists in various fields have been looking for new fuel sources to solve the energy crisis. The genus Miscanthus is an ideal biofuel crop due to its rapid vegetative growth and its potential for high biomass yields. Plant regeneration through somatic embryogenesis is a viable method to achieve large-scale production of plant biomass. Callus induction from immature inflorescences of five Miscanthus species was performed on two different media, and the relative rates of callus proliferation were calculated. The highest multiplication coefficient, 3.92, was obtained with M. sacchariflorus ssp. lutarioriparius when the concentration of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) in the medium was 4.0 mg/L, and this species also performed the best at the induction phase. The proliferation coefficient for M. floridulus increased to 3.19 when the concentration of 2,4-D was decreased from 4.0 to 2.0 mg/L. When the concentration of 2,4-D was 2.0 mg/L, the proliferation coefficient for M. sinensis was 2.47. In M. sacchariflorus, the proliferation coefficients were 2.89 and 2.49 for the lower and higher concentrations of 2,4-D, respectively. The multiplication coefficient of M. x giganteus was 2.60 on medium containing 4.0 mg/L 2,4-D. Three different regeneration media were tested to induce shoots in vitro. M. floridulus and M. sacchariflorus regenerated shoots at 100% frequency in three different regeneration media. The regeneration rate for M. sacchariflorus ssp. lutarioriparius reached 99.0% on medium containing 4.0 mg/LA-Benzylaminopurine (6-BA) and 0.1 mg/L -Naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The best regeneration rate of M. sinensis was 35.2% using 2.0 mg/L 6-BA and 0.3 mg/L NAA, whereas the regeneration rate of M. x giganteus was 57.4% on medium supplemented with 3.0 mg/L 6-BA and 0.2 mg/L NAA. The in vitro-derived plantlets of all five species had 100% rooting rates on basal MS medium without supplementation. The survival rates of plantlets were above 90% for each species when subsequently grown outdoors.
4293268|Several environmental problems related to plant genetic engineering may prohibit advancement of this technology and prevent realization of its full potential. One such common concern is the demonstrated escape of foreign genes through pollen dispersal from transgenic crop plants to their weedy relatives, creating super weeds or causing gene pollution among other crops or toxicity of transgenic pollen to nontarget insects. The high rates of gene flow from crops to wild relatives (as high as 38% in sunflower and 50% in strawberries) are certainly a serious concern. Maternal inheritance of the herbicide resistance gene via chloroplast genetic engineering has been shown to be a practical solution to these problems. Another common concern is the suboptimal production of Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) insecticidal protein or reliance on a single (or similar) B.t. protein in commercial transgenic crops, resulting in B.t. resistance among target pests. Clearly, different insecticidal proteins should be produced in lethal quantities to decrease the development of resistance. Such hyperex-pression of a novel B.t. protein in chloroplasts has resulted in 100% mortality of insects that are up to 40000-fold resistant to other B.t. proteins. Yet another concern is the presence of antibiotic resistance genes in transgenic plants that could inactivate oral doses of the antibiotic or be transferred to pathogenic microbes in the GI tract or in soil, rendering them resistant to treatment with such antibiotics. Cotransformation and elimination of antibiotic resistant genes from transgenic plants using transposable elements via breeding are promising new approaches. Genetic engineering efforts have also addressed yet another concern, i.e., the accumulation and persistence of plastics in our environment by production of biodegradable plastics. Recent approaches and accomplishments in addressing these environmental concerns via chloroplast genetic engineering are discussed in this review.
4293447|Variability in a given banana population has several advantages when biotechnology is applied in an improvement program. These include the possibility of using systematic analysis or selection techniques to isolate variant or mutant lines with interesting characteristics such as resistance to biotic or abiotic stress. A somaclonal variant of banana CIEN BTA-03 resistant to Yellow Sigatoka disease was obtained by induction of adventitious shoots from excised sucker shoot tips of Williams cultivar (AAA) (subgroup Cavendish), grown in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing
23321160|Controlling fungal and bacterial contamination of woody plant material can be extremely difficult. Isothiazolone biocides and sodium dichloroisocyanurate have been used singly and in combination to reduce microbial contamination in bud explants derived from greenhouse- and field-grown citrus trees. Explants from greenhouse-grown trees were effectively disinfested (< 5% vs. 85% contamination) using a 'standard' disinfestation (SD) procedure followed by culture on medium containing 5 ml l-1 Plant Preservative Mixture, or by the SD procedure but substituting 300 ppm sodium dichloroisocyanurate for 48 h for the treatment with 1.05% NaOCl in the SD procedure. Disinfestation of explants from field-grown trees was less effective than explants from the greenhouse, but was improved (10% vs. 47% contamination) by using a combination of the SD procedure with 1.05% NaOCl, or 100 or 300 ppm sodium dichloroisocyanurate followed by culture onto medium containing 5 ml l-1 Plant Preservative Mixture.
20461632|Shoot formation from rhizome explants of Cymbidium kanran was promoted on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium: (1) with 1 mg l (4.4 M) 6-benzyladenine (BA) and 0.1 mg l (0.54 M) -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA); (2) with ethylene inhibitor (silver nitrate, AgNO); or (3) by reducing ammonium nitrate (NHNO) and potassium nitrate (KNO) to 25 and 50%, respectively, of their original concentrations. Shoot formation by BA and NAA was strongly inhibited with the application of ethephon, an ethylene releaser. The ethylene production from the rhizome explants was reduced 30-55% on low nitrogen medium after 1-3 mo. of culture and 52% on BA and NAA medium after 1 mo. of culture compared with explants on standard MS medium. No difference in endogenous auxin (indole-3-acetic acid, IAA) and cytokinin (isopentenyl adenosine, iPA) contents in the rhizomes was found between the treatments. Low ethylene levels were correlated with higher frequency of shoot formation from the rhizomes.
4293946|Mitotic chromosome analysis has proven to be an important tool in monitoring the potential for genetic exchange among related plant species. One major obstacle to using mitotic chromosome analysis in any species is obtaining large numbers of clear, well-spread metaphase chromosomes necessary to perform cytological techniques such as chromosome banding and fluorescent in situ hybridization. The ability to obtain good chromosome spreads is in part determined by the number and morphology of the roots, which contain the metaphase tissue. Many Amaranthus species produce very thin, delicate roots. The technique used in the process described herein provides for much more substantial roots, allowing for higher probability of obtaining well-spread metaphase chromosomes. Seeds were planted in a soilless mixture, and then cuttings and leaves were taken from the plants. The cuttings were sterilized and placed in Murashige and Skoog (MS) media, while leaf tissue was analyzed by flow cytometry, both pre- and post-propagation, to obtain DNA contents. No changes in DNA content were observed. The in vitro procedure produced significantly larger roots than were produced in soilless mix. Furthermore, all of the in vitro roots observed had 32 chromosomes of normal morphology. In vitro root propagation allowed large numbers of roots to be obtained from a single plant, thereby resulting in increased probability of obtaining cells with metaphase chromosomes that reflected the original plants' chromosome numbers and therefore may be used for molecular cytogenetic analysis.
4293941| The natural propagation rate of Narcissus is very slow. In vitro micropropagation of Narcissus is more efficient than conventional propagation for rapidly building up aseptic stocks of varieties, especially for the establishment of new cvs. and the production of pathogen-free stock material. In the present study, Narcissus tazetta cv. 'Ziva' bulbs were used as the source of mother plants. The bulbs were kept at 30C in a dark chamber until the start of the experiments. Prior to explant preparation, the bulbs were subjected to a cold treatment at 15C in the dark for 6wk to break dormancy. Twin-scales and inflorescence stem discs were isolated from aseptic bulb parts and were used as the initial explants. The polar orientation affected the regeneration of the inflorescence stem. Storage duration at 30C followed by cold treatment were found to affect starch levels, adenosine diphosphate glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase) activities, and regeneration potentials. Starch levels were reduced significantly during a 10 mo. storage period at 30C in both twin-scales and inflorescence stem disc explants. Regeneration was followed by an efficient acclimatization system with 98-99% survival. More than 500 highly uniform young bulbs were propagated from one mother bulb in a 12 mo. period. 
20461624|In vitro plants in slow-growth storage require routine evaluation for assessment of viability and need for repropagation. Determination of plantlet health by visual assessment is subjective and varies by genus due to variations in growth pattern and plant structure. Developing a standardized plant evaluation system would improve the efficiency of in vitro storage. This study was initiated to develop digital image analysis techniques for plantlets during slow-growth cold storage and to compare that system with visual examinations. Pear (Pyrus communis L.) cultivars were chosen for this initial trial because they have an open structure and clear intermode position for image composition. Pear shoots stored at 4C in tissue culture bags were evaluated monthly by standard visual examination and by digital image analysis. Digital images were evaluated for red, green, blue, modified normalized differences of vegetation index (MNDVI), green/red ratio (G/R), intensity, hue, and saturation at the first two nodes of each plantlet. At 6 mo., the visual ratings had declined steadily for P. communis 'Luscious' and 'Bartlett-Swiss', while 'Belle Lucrative' and 'Louise Bonne de Jersey' ratings did not show significant declines until 9 mo. Correlations between visual ratings and G/R and MNDVI values were significant (r  0.5) for all cultivars. Regression analysis indicated that the MNDVI and G/R ratios changed significantly over the 15-mo. rating period for most cultivars. Intensity, hue and saturation values were not consistently significant and did not correlate with visual ratings. These results will assist in the development of digital imaging as an alternative technique for evaluation of stored in vitro plantlets.
29736154|Lipids are key components of all living cells. Acyl lipids and sterols provide the matrix of the biological membranes that both define the boundaries of cells and organelles, and act as sites for the trafficking of molecules within and into/out of cells. Lipids are also important metabolic intermediates and the most efficient form of energy storage that is available to a cell. It is the latter, energy-storing function that is of most relevance to this review. Storage lipids are accumulated in abundance in many of our most important crops, including maize, soybean, rapeseed, and oil palm, giving rise to a commercial sector valued at over $50 billion/year. Because the storage lipids of the major global oil crops have a relatively restricted composition, there is great interest in using all available breeding technologies, whether traditional or modern, to enhance the variation in lipid quality in existing crops and/or to domesticate new crops that already accumulate useful novel lipids. Over the past few decades, there has been a great deal of effort to manipulate fatty acid composition in order to produce novel lipids, especially for industrial applications. However, these attempts, many based on genetic engineering, have met with only limited commercial success to date. More recently, there has been a resurgence of interest in the modification of both acyl and non-acyl lipids to enhance the nutritional quality of plant oils. In this review, we will examine the background to plant lipid modification and some of the latest developments, with a particular focus on edible oils.
41496505|A simple and efficient cryopreservation protocol for coconut zygotic embryos has been developed. Embryos were inoculated in Petri dishes on medium containing 3.2 M glucose, which were placed in hermetically closed containers containing 80 or 160 g silica gel for 48 or 24 h. Moisture content of embryos at the end of this treatment varied between 0.25 and 0.65 g g DW, depending on the accession. Embryos were then transferred for cryopreservation by rapid immersion of cryotubes in liquid nitrogen. After rapid re-warming, embryos were transferred to culture medium containing Eeuwens mineral elements for germination. This protocol was applied to ten accessions representative of coconut genetic diversity, with germination percentages of cryopreserved embryos between 13.7% and 74.7%.
4293256|Potassium leakage and morphological changes during imbibition of white spruce [Picea glauca (Moench) Voss] seeds and somatic embryos were investigated. A single desiccated somatic embryo, a single somatic embryo exposed to a high relative humidity environment for 2 d, and a single dry zygotic embryo leaked similar amounts of potassium over a 120-min period of imbibition in liquid germination medium. A seed without a seed coat leaked two and eight times more potassium than a single whole seed and a single zygotic embryo, respectively. Nearly 50% of the potassium leaked for all tissues was leaked within the first 20 min of imbibition. Exposure of somatic embryos to an environment with high relative humidity resulted in a reduction in the percentage of potassium leaked after 80 and 120 min to levels equivalent to those for zygotic embryos. Using an environmental scanning electron microscope, we found that desiccated somatic embryos and dry zygotic embryos had wrinkled surface cells, with cells in the surface of zygotic embryos being more shrunken in appearance. Imbibition of both types of embryos in water resulted in turgid surface cells after 2 h. Imbibition in liquid germination medium did not cause much hydration of surface cells, which still had wrinkled appearances after 2 h. Finally, imbibition on filter paper on semisolidified germination medium resulted in slower hydration of somatic and zygotic embryos. Cells near the medium appeared hydrated while cotyledon surface cells furthest from the medium resembled cells in desiccated embryos.
4293423|Micropropagation of the anti-cancer plant Camptotheca acuminata Decaisne from axillary buds and seed embryos was investigated. Axillary buds from greenhouse seedlings required a period of culture in media free of
4293565| A new reliable protocol for the induction of adventitious shoots and plant regeneration from cotyledon-derived callus of Acacia sinuata has been developed. Calluses were induced from cotyledon explants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 3% sucrose, 0.8% agar or 0.15% phytagel, 8.1 M -naphthaleneacetic acid, and 2.2 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA). High-frequency regeneration of adventitious buds from callus was achieved when cultured on half-strength MS medium supplemented with 10% coconut water, 13.3 M BA, and 2.5 M zeatin. Histological studies revealed that the regenerated shoots originated from the callus. Among the various carbohydrates tested, sucrose at 87.6 mM was optimum for shoot-bud induction. Addition of 1.7 M gibberellic acid along with 4.4 M BA favored shoot elongation. In vitro-raised shoots produced prominent roots when transferred to half-strength MS medium supplemented with 7.4 M indole-3-butyric acid. Rooted plants, thus developed, were hardened and successfully established in soil (45%). This protocol yielded an average of 40 plantlets per cotyledon explant over a period of 3 mo. 
20064947|To improve proliferation of soybean cultures in liquid medium, the effects of sucrose; total inorganic nitrogen; content of NO, NH,
4293744| We describe an in vitro propagation protocol for Zingiber petiolatum (Holttum) I. Theilade, a rare species from the southern part of Thailand. Fruits were surface-sterilized and seeds germinated on Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) medium supplemented with 3% sucrose. Three-month-old seedlings were used as initial plant material for in vitro propagation. Terminal buds of the plants were inoculated on MS medium containing 6-benzylaminopurine (BA; 2.2-35.5 M) alone or in combination with 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (0.5 M). Eight weeks after inoculation, the cultures were transferred to MS medium without plant growth regulators for 4 wk. The cultures transferred from MS medium with 17.8 M BA revealed the highest shoot induction rate of 6.1  0.7 shoots per explant. Rooting was spontaneously achieved in MS medium without plant growth regulators. Rooted plants were successfully transplanted to soil. 
41496512|In banana and plantain research, it is essential to establish embryogenie cell suspensions together with a highly efficient regeneration and transformation system. This article describes the development of an embryognie cell suspension (ECS), regeneration, and transformation for plantain cv. "Gonja manjaya". ECS was established using highly proliferative multiple buds. The frequency of embryognie friable callus formation was 56.8% of the cultured expiants. Friable embryogenie calli with many translucent proembryos were transferred to liquid medium and homogenous cell suspensions were established within 3-4 mo. Approximately 25,000 to 30,000 plants per 1.0 ml of settled cell volume were regenerated in approximately 13-14 mo. ECSs were transformed using Agrobacterium strain EH A 105 harboring the binary vector pBI121. About 50-60 transgenic plants per 0.5 ml settled cell volume were regenerated on selective medium containing 100 mg l kanamycin. Histochemical GUS assays using different tissues of putatively transformed plants demonstrated stable expression of uidA gene. The presence and integration of the uidA gene were confirmed by PCR and Southern blot analysis, respectively. This is the first report showing establishment of embryognie cell suspension cultures and Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of an important plantain cultivar, "Gonja manjaya". This study shows the huge potential for genetic transformation of plantains for disease or pest resistance, as well as tolerance to abiotic factors such as drought stress using this robust regeneration and transformation protocol.
20461662|This study describes a reproducible protocol for rapid mass propagation of a multipurpose legume, Clitoria ternatea L., using cotyledonary node explants derived from axenic seedlings. Multiple shoots were induced in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with N-benzyladenine (BA), zeatin riboside, or thidiazuron. N-Benzyladenine at 1.0 mg l (4.44 M) was most effective for shoot proliferation. Multiple shoots were also induced in nodal segments of in vitro-raised shoots grown on MS medium containing 1.0 mg l (4.44 M) of BA. Rooting was best induced in shoots grown on half-strength MS medium with 0.25 mg l (1.42 M) of indole-3-butyric acid. Plants were acclimatized in vermicompost and established in soil where they flowered and formed mature seeds.
4293582| Successful shoot regeneration from petioles, leaves, and petioles with leaves cultured in vitro is reported in Heuchera sanguinea. Petioles or petioles with leaves regenerated more shoots than leaves alone. For culture, the optimum hormonal concentrations were 0.19 M -naphthaleneacetic acid combined with 0.44 or 4.4 M benzyladenine in Murashige and Skoog-based (MS) medium; the regenerating rate and the number of shoots per explant were 60% and 8.6-9.7, respectively. Histological study on petiole culture showed dividing cell clusters including vascular tissues after 1 wk, callus including several dividing cell clusters at the periphery after 3 wk and then apical meristems with immature leaves after 5 wk. Rooting from the regenerated shoots was highest (95%) on MS medium containing 4.9 M indole-3-butyric acid. Seventy-three percent of rooted plants were successfully acclimatized in pots. When they were cultured in the field, the plants grew and most flowered the following year over winter. 
4293543|We have examined transgene inheritance in over 300 progeny of a line of soybean (Glycine max) transformed by particle bombardment with a construct containing bovine
4293671|Hemp (Cannabis sativa L.) is cultivated in many parts of the world for its fiber, oil, and seed. The development of new hemp cultivars with improved traits could be facilitated through the application of biotechnological strategies. The purpose of this study was to investigate the propagation of hemp in tissue culture and to establish a protocol for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation for foreign gene introduction. Stem and leaf segments from seedlings of four hemp varieties were placed on Murashige and Skoog medium with Gamborg B5 vitamins (MB) supplemented with
4293882|The development of embryo sacs (ES) in vitro and induction of gynogenesis were studied in onion flower bud culture. Explants were divided into three groups according to their size at inoculation: (a) small flower buds (2.3-3.0 mm in diameter); (b) medium flower buds (3.1-3.7 mm); and (c) large flower buds (3.8-4.4 mm). For histological study, excised ovaries were fixed at inoculation and then at 3-d intervals until day 12, and after 2 and 3 wk of culture. Some explants were cultured until embryo emergence, i.e., 3-5 mo. In total, 2592 ovules were examined histologically. At inoculation, 83% of ovules in small flower buds contained a megaspore mother cell; in 17% of ovules, two-nucleate ES occurred. In medium flower buds two-nucleate, four-nucleate, and mature ES were present at frequencies of 15%, 46%, and 40%, respectively. In large flower buds, only mature ES occurred. In vitro conditions did not disturb meiosis and megagametophyte development in non-degenerated ovules. Regardless of the developmental stage at inoculation, only mature ES occurred on day 12. Gynogenic embryos were found after 2 wk of culture, indicating that embryos developed in mature ES exclusively. Embryos were detected in 5.4% of histological studied ovules; however, the number of embryos after 3-5 mo. was higher (12.4%). The parthenogenetic origin of the embryos is discussed. In addition, ES containing endosperm only (6.5%) and both endosperm and embryo (0.4%) were observed.
20064932|Several methods have been developed to obtain somatic embryos of soybean. We report here a new procedure that results in high frequency somatic embryo initiation in a short period of time. Somatic embryos were induced from immature cotyledons of the cultivars "Jack," "Thorne," "Resnik," and "Chapman." Immature cotyledons were cultured on a medium containing MS salts, B vitamins, 6% sucrose, and 40 mg/l 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Culture modifications included: orientation of the explants (adaxial or abaxial side of the cotyledon in contact with the medium), adjustment of medium pH (5.7 or 7.0), wounding of cotyledons with scalpel blades, inclusion of ethylene modulators, and use of Noble agar or Gelrite as the solidifying agent. The treatment that resulted in the highest embryo induction across the cultivars consisted of abaxial side of the explant facing the medium, pH 7.0 and 0.2% Gelrite. "Jack" was the most responsive cultivar showing the first embryos as early as 14 d after culture. After 21 d, an average of 44 embryos per cotyledon was obtained with this cultivar. The inclusion of silver nitrate (AgNO) in the culture medium did not enhance the number of primary somatic embryos induced per cotyledon, but the addition of 15 M AgNO did result in a faster production of secondary embryos using the cultivar "Jack." Wounding of the explants with a scalpel resulted in an earlier induction of somatic embryos. Embryo initials were first observed after only 7 d. Histological examination of cultured cotyledons indicated that the somatic embryos originated from the subepidermal tissues and were of multicellular origin. This somatic embryo induction procedure could be useful for direct transformation work and permits the production of embryogenic tissue within 2 wk.
4293913|A simple and effective procedure has been developed for plantlet regeneration from cotyledon-derived callus of the medicinally important herb and ornamental species, Incarvillea sinensis. An average of 18.4 adventitious shoots per explant were obtained from 100% cotyledon explants cultured on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing
4293850| An in vitro protocol has been developed for callus induction, somatic embryogenesis, and plant regeneration from stigma-style culture of grapevine. Four different grapevine cultivars (Vitis vinifera L.; cvs. 'Bombino Nero,' 'Greco di Tufo,' 'Merlot,' and 'Sangiovese') were tested. Explants were cultured on Nitsch and Nitsch medium (NN) supplemented with various combinations of 6-benzylaminopurine (BA; 4.5 and 9.0 M) and -naphthoxyacetic acid (NOA; 5.0 and 9.9 M). Sucrose (88 mM) was used as the carbon source. Somatic embryogenesis was induced within 3-7 mo. after culture initiation. Even though explants of different origin (unfertilized ovules and anthers) regenerated somatic embryos, the higher embryogenic potential was observed in stigma and style explants, with the exception of 'Merlot,' which regenerated somatic embryos only from unfertilized ovules. The percentages of stigma-style explants producing somatic embryos was 7% in 'Bombino Nero' (cultured on NN medium supplemented 9.0 M BA and 9.9 M NOA), 14% in 'Greco di Tufo' (4.5 M BA and 9.9 M NOA), and 8% in 'Sangiovese' (9.0 M BA and 9.9 M NOA). The presence of growth regulators (BA and NOA) in the medium was essential for induction of somatic embryogenesis. Plants were regenerated on hormone-free NN medium containing 88 mM sucrose. 
41496447|A liquid paraffin overlay (LPO) was used for storage of rapidly multiplying somatic embryos of Dendrocalamus hamiltonii under slow-growth conditions. Slow growth was associated with changes in sugar metabolism. In rapidly growing embryogenic tissues, a sharp decline in starch and non-reducing sugars indicated rapid utilization of starch. In contrast, under slow-growth conditions in somatic embryos stored under LPO, a gradual decline in starch indicated its slower utilization. As a result, growth of somatic embryos under LPO was suppressed and subculturing was not required. Following retrieval from growth under LPO after 30, 90, 180, 270, and 365 d of storage, the somatic embryos showed high recovery and germination (79.78%, 77.49%, 71.22%, 67.13%, and 59.99%, respectively) and were able to proliferate following transfer to Murashige and Skoog's (Physiol. Plant. 15: 473-197, 1962) medium containing 1 mg1 BAP and 2% sucrose. The study provides useful information on in vitro storage of embryogenic tissue of D. hamiltonii.
4293702| Acacia mangium microshoots from juvenile and mature genotypes were micropropagated through a regular subculture regime for more than 3 yr in vitro. Average multiplication rates of 5.5 for the juvenile source and of 3.9 for the mature clone were obtained during this period on the 6-benzylaminopurine-enriched multiplication medium. Although the juvenile material displayed higher potential for axillary shoot and root formation than the mature clone overall, the differences were not statistically significant with noticeable variations in the course of time from one subculture to another. On specific rooting media, the juvenile material rooted overall in greater proportions than the mature material, notwithstanding noteworthy interactions between the age of the plant material and the various experimental factors tested, i.e. sucrose concentration, macrosalt formulation and light regime. The stimulating effect of darkness on juvenile plant material rooting rates was more obvious than for the mature clone, which responded more inconsistently. Addition of 4 M indole-3-acetic acid, indole-3-butyric acid, or 1-naphthaleneacetic acid in the rooting medium significantly increased the proportion of rooted microshoots of both origins. The rooting criteria observed were also prone to vary depending on the experimental date. The data indicate that rooting of juvenile and mature Acacia mangium materials have average rates of 90% and 77%, respectively. These are high enough to consider possible applications of these procedures toward operational activities. 
4293830|An efficient protocol for plant regeneration from stem segments of Murraya koenigii was developed by culturing on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
4293785|Growth and morphogenesis of plant tissues under in vitro conditions are largely influenced by the composition of the culture media. In this study, effects of different inorganic nutrients (ZnSO
24596334|Boesenbergia rotunda is a perennial ginger species rich in flavonoids, flavones, and cyclohexenyl chalcone derivatives. Several of these secondary metabolites have shown promising antiviral and anticancer activities, and thus, it is important to optimize methods for robust production of clonal materials. In this study, cell suspensions were established and their growth capacities were evaluated in liquid media supplemented with varying growth regulator compositions. The highest settled cell volume of 6.10.3 ml with a specific growth rate of 0.08920.0035 was achieved by maintaining cells in Murashige and Skoog liquid media supplemented with 1.0 mg L of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 0.5 mg L 6-benzyladenine, representing a 12-fold increase in cell volume during the culture period. A somatic embryogenesis rate of 1,433.33387.84 somatic embryos per milliliter of settled cells was achieved with an inoculation cell density of 50 l settled cell volume and on growth regulator-free agar plates. Around half (53.57.9%) of the somatic embryos germinated into complete plantlets on media supplemented with 3 mg L 6-benzyladenine and 1 mg L -naphthaleneacetic acid. The plantlets were successfully transferred to soil and grown in the greenhouse. Phytochemical profiling via high-performance liquid chromatography analysis revealed that regenerated plantlets retained the capacity to produce and accumulate bioactive compounds. Hence, this protocol will be helpful for metabolic engineering and functional studies of genes and enzymes involved in the biosynthetic pathway of valuable compounds in B. rotunda.
20541014|A new protocol for the production of transgenic pineapple plants was developed. Adventitious buds were induced directly from Agrobacterium-infected leaf bases and stem discs of in vitro plants, bypassing the establishment of callus cultures. Non-chimeric transgenic plants were obtained by multiple subculturing of primary transformants under increasing levels of selection. A total of 42 independent transgenic lines were produced from two cultivars with two different constructs: one containing a modified rice cystatin gene (Oc-ID86) and the other with the anti-sense gene to pineapple aminocyclopropane synthase (ACS). GUS histochemical staining provided the first evidence of the non-chimeric nature of the transformed plants. Their non-chimeric nature was further demonstrated by PCR analyses of the DNA extracted from individual leaves of a primary transformed plant and also from multiple plants propagated from a single transformation event. Southern hybridization confirmed random integration patterns of transgenes in the independent lines. For the Oc-ID86 gene, the expression at the mRNA level was detected via RT-PCR and its translation was detected by protein blot. Agronomic evaluation and bioassays of the transgenic plants will further validate the utility of this new tool for pineapple improvement.
4293777|Improved in vitro tissue culture systems are needed to facilitate the application of transgene technology to the improvement of sugar beet germplasms. Several commercially important sugar beet breeding lines (SDM 3, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, HB 526, and CMS 22003) and commercial varieties (Roberta and Gala) were tested for their regeneration capacity through adventitious shoot organogenesis from cotyledons, hypocotyls, root/hypocotyl/shoot transition zone tissues, and leaf lamina and petiole via an intervening callus phase. Callus induction and adventitious shoot regeneration was dependent on genotype and combinations of plant growth regulators. With cotyledon or hypocotyl explants, SDM 3 and 10 showed a better response on adventitious shoot regeneration in medium containing benzyladenine (BA) and 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid or 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) than SDM 11, 5, and 9. Shoot regeneration was obtained from hypocotyl-root or hypocotyl-shoot transition zone tissue in SDM 9, 10, and HB 526 grown on PGo medium supplemented with BA to induce callus, and the regeneration frequency was 25%. Adventitious shoots were also regenerated from leaf explants of SDM 3 and 9 cultured on medium containing NAA for callus induction and BA and NAA to induce shoot regeneration, and in SDM 10 and CMS 22003 cultured on medium containing BA for callus induction and to induce shoot regeneration.
4293229|Studies were conducted to optimize the in vitro production of stigma-like-structures (SLS) that yielded the important biochemical constituents responsible for the color, taste, and aroma naturally found in the stigmas of autumn crocus. Immature half-ovary expiants were evaluated for the frequency of proliferation of SLS by culture on five basal media supplemented with different combinations of plant growth regulators and vitamins. The optimum proliferation of SLS was observed on B5 basal medium containing
20064912|The effects of nodal explants collected at different plastochrones, use of various benzyladenine (BA) concentrations, sources of carbohydrates, and phases of the culture medium on shoot establishment and proliferation of Rosa hybrida L. and R. chinensis minima were evaluated. Higher numbers of shoots per explant were obtained from R. hybrida cv. Carefree Beauty explants proximal to the apical meristem than those from distal nodes. However, proliferating shoots derived from plastochrones proximal to the apical meristem had a lower number of leaves/explant and were shorter than those derived from other distal plastochrones. Although shoot proliferation increased with higher BA concentration in the medium, a concentration of 4.4 M BA was found optimum for axillary bud-break and shoot development for R. hybrida cvs. Adelaide Hoodless and Cuthert Grant. A higher shoot proliferation rate was observed for R. hybrida cv. Carefree Beauty explants grown on a medium containing 55.5 mM fructose than 58.4 mM sucrose. However, no differences were observed for R. hybrida cv. Cuthert Grant grown on a medium containing either fructose or sucrose. The mean number of shoots/explant was higher for R. chinensis minima cv. Red Sunblaze explants grown on a liquid (4.5) than on a solid medium (1.7) for the first reculture; while no significant differences between the two phases of the medium were observed for the second reculture. However, a higher mean number of shoots/explant was observed on solid-phase (4.0) than liquid-phase medium (3.4) for the third reculture. A higher mean number of leaves/shoot was obtained on a solidified medium rather than liquid medium in the first two consecutive recultures, while no differences were observed for the third reculture. Although a significant effect of BA concentration on mean number of shoots/explant was observed for Red Sunblaze nodal explants, the influence of BA concentration decreased in the two consecutive cultures for both phases of the medium. Hyperhydricity was observed on Red Sunblaze shoots grown on the liquid-phase medium.
40663773|In vitro physiology and carbon metabolism can be affected by the sink-source relationship. The effect of different sucrose concentrations (10, 30, and 50 g L), light intensities (80 and 150 mol m s), and CO levels (375 and 1,200 mol mol) were tested during plantain micropropagation in temporary immersion bioreactors. Activities of pyruvate kinase, phosphoenol pyruvate carboxylase, and the photosynthesis rate were recorded. From the morphological and practical point of view, the best results were obtained when plants were cultured with 30 g L sucrose, 80 mol m s light intensity, and 1,200 mol mo1 CO concentration. This treatment improved leaf and root development, reduced respiration during in vitro culture, and increased starch level at the end of the hardening phase. In addition to that, the number of competent plants was increased from 80.0% to 91.0% at the end of the in vitro phase and the survival percentage from 95.71% to 99.80% during ex vitro hardening.
4293083|Cotton (Gossypium hirsutum, Texas Marker-1) fiber cells originating from ovule culture have been analyzed by gel permeation chromatography of dimethyl acetamide/lithium chloride-soluble components and compared with in planta-grown fibers. The profile of cell-wall polymer molecular weights indicated that fibers grown for 21 d in culture more closely resembled fibers growing in planta for 30 d post-anthesis than fully mature fibers. The weight average molecular weight was 3 400 000 and number average molecular weight of polymers from ovule culture fibers was 109 000. Analysis of the polymer weight fraction distribution revealed that ovule culture fibers were similar to 30 d post-anthesis immature fibers but lacked a low molecular weight (log M 3-4) polymer fraction. Assessment of the polymer branching frequency showed that ovule culture fibers were intermediate in branching between 30 d post-anthesis fiber and mature in planta fiber. In summary, polymers deposited in cell walls of ovule culture fibers appear to grossly mimic the polymers accumulated during normal fiber biogenesis in planta, yet subtle differences may explain why ovule culture fibers rarely reach their full genetic potential in length.
25623035|Carrot suspension cultures are efficient production systems for plant-made pharmaceuticals (PMP); however, frequently, the reduction of transgene expression in long-running transgenic cell lines limits the productivity. Freshly induced carrot suspensions have been identified for a constant and high biomass production with optimization of culture conditions and cultivars. A small-volume monitoring method was adapted to freshly induced carrot suspension that minimized the heterogeneity of freshly induced meristematic carrot cell lines. Using this system combined with the adaptation of growth conditions, we identified the cultivar Rote Riesen as having the highest increase in dry biomass with an average of 6.5 g/L weekly, stable and consistent after 8 wk. As a model PMP, VP60the capsid protein from the rabbit hemorrhagic disease viruswas produced in a carrot suspension with a maximal accumulation of 2.4 g/g dry mass. The developed method guarantees comparable investigations of different transgene expression in various freshly induced small-volume carrot cell lines.
20461747|A major limitation of crop biotechnology and breeding is the lack of efficient molecular technologies for precise engineering of target genomic loci. While transformation procedures have become routine for a growing number of plant species, the random introduction of complex transgenenic DNA into the plant genome by current methods generates unpredictable effects on both transgene and homologous native gene expression. The risk of transgene transfer into related plant species and consumers is another concern associated with the conventional transformation technologies. Various approaches to avoid or eliminate undesirable transgenes, most notably selectable marker genes used in plant transformation, have recently been developed. These approaches include contransformation with two independent T-DNAs or plasmid DNAs followed by their subsequent segregation, transposon-mediated DNA elimination, and most recently, attempts to replace bacterial T-DNA borders and selectable marker genes with functional equivalents of plant origin. The use of site-specific recombination to remove undesired DNA from the plant genome and concomitantly, via excision-mediated DNA rearrangement, switch-activate by choice transgenes of agro-nomical, food or feed quality traits provides a versatile "transgene maintenance and control" strategy that can significantly contribute to the transfer of transgenic laboratory developments into farming practice. This review focuses on recent reports demonstrating the elimination of undesirable transgenes (essentially selectable marker and recombinase genes) from the plant genome and concomitant activation of a silent transgene (e.g., a reporter gene) mediated by different site-specific recombinases driven by constitutive or chemically, environmentally or developmentally regulated promoters. These reports indicate major progress in excision strategies which extends application of the technology from annual, sexually propagated plants towards perennial, woody and vegetatively propagated plants. Current trends and future prospects for optimization of excision-activation machinery and its practical implementation for the generation of transgenic plants and plant products free of undesired genes are discussed.
20461599|This study reports an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of green-colored cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.). A tissue culture procedure was optimized to induce callus formation from hypocotyl explants and subsequent differentiation into the embryogenic type. Callus formation could be induced by growing explants on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and kinetin. Among the four genotypes studied, embryogenic calli and plant regeneration were observed only in var. G9803. Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of G9803 with the fiber-specific expansin gene GhExp1 was achieved based on the establishment of these tissue culture methods. A total of 32 individual regenerants resistant to kanamycin were generated within 7 mo., with a transformation frequency of 17.8%. Transformation was confirmed by Southern blot analysis and RT-PCR. These results represent the first step towards genetic manipulation of the colors and fiber quality of green-colored cottons by biotechnology.
29736171|A micropropagation protocol for Pouteria lucuma R. and Pav. var. La Molina was developed. Shoots from zygotic embryos with a portion of endosperm were established in vitro on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 0.47 M kinetin (Kin) and 0.54 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Multiplication of shoots was accomplished using subapical shoots. The best axillary-shoot production was observed on MS basal medium with 2.2 M benzyladenine (BA), 0.5 M NAA, 1.4 M gibberellic acid (GA), and 40 mgl adenine sulfate, with the development of up to three axillary shoots per subapical shoot. One hundred percent rooting was obtained from shoots grown for 4 wk on MS medium with 246 M indole-3-butyric acid under light conditions. Eighty percent of the microplantlets survived after acclimatization when transplanted to a substrate previously enriched with beneficial soil bacteria. This study describes, for the first time, arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) colonization of this species. Inoculation with AM fungi improved growth and development of lucumo plants and induced changes to the root morphology.
20064980|Various preconditioning treatments of alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) somatic embryos to improve embryo quality and conversion were studied. Four different regenerating genotypes were compared. Embryogenic cultures were established in liquid culture. Globular embryos were collected and plated on an embryo development medium until they reached cotyledonary stage. They were then exposed to three treatments: a standard embryo development medium (control), media supplementation with 1 M abscisic acid (ABA), 50 mM glutamine and 5% sucrose (T), additional supplementation with 50 M ABA (TT), and additional supplementation followed by desiccation (TTD). Treatments affected embryo conversion, but not uniformly for all genotypes. Embryo conversion was increased (P &lt 0.05) by pretreatment (T), while only one exhibited any response to additional ABA (T vs. TT). Desiccation decreased (P &lt 0.05) conversion of pretreated embryos (TT vs. TTD) of all genotypes. The effect of treatments on plantlet weight was less pronounced and inconsistent across genotypes.
4293539|Chili pepper is an important horticultural crop that can surely benefit from plant biotechnology. However, although it is a Solanaceous member, developments in plant cell, tissue, and organ culture, as well as on plant genetic transformation, have lagged far behind those achieved for other members of the same family, such as tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum), tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum), and potato (Solanum tuberosum), species frequently used as model systems because of their facility to regenerate organs and eventually whole plants in vitro, and also for their ability to be genetically engineered by the currently available transformation methods. Capsicum members have been shown to be recalcitrant to differentiation and plant regeneration under in vitro conditions, which in turn makes it very difficult or inefficient to apply recombinant DNA technologies via genetic transformation aimed at genetic improvement against pests and diseases. Some approaches, however, have made possible the regeneration of chili pepper plants from in vitro-cultured cells, tissues, and organs through organogenesis or embryogenesis. Anther culture has been successfully applied to obtain haploid and doubled-haploid plants. Organogenic systems have been used for in vitro micropropagation as well as for genetic transformation. Application of both tissue culture and genetic transformation techniques have led to the development of chili pepper plants more resistant to at least one type of virus. Cell and tissue cultures have been applied successfully to the selection of variant cells exhibiting increased resistance to abiotic stresses, but no plants exhibiting the selected traits have been regenerated. Production of capsaicinoids, the hot principle of chili pepper fruits, by cells and callus tissues has been another area of intense research. The advances, limitations, and applications of chili pepper biotechnology are discussed.
4293291|A comparative study was conducted to optimize the vegetative growth of sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas L. (Lam), cv. Beniazuma) plantlets cultured in vitro in five different types of supporting materials: agar matrix (a seaweed derivative; Kanto Chemical Co. Inc., Tokyo), gellan gum (a Pseudomonas derivative; Kanto Chemical Co. Inc., Tokyo), vermiculite (a kind of hydrous silicates), a mixture of vermiculite and cellulose fiber (Florialite; Nisshinbo Industries, Inc., Tokyo) and cellulose plug (Sorbarod; Baumgartner Rapiers SA., Switzerland). Single nodal cuttings were cultured photoautotrophically (without any sugar in the medium and with enriched CO
4293312|Somatic hybrid plants of Nicotiana tabacum (bar) (+) Nicotiana megalosiphon (npt II) were recovered after polyethylene glycol (PEG) mediated fusion. Hybrid calluses were selected on the basis of their dual resistance to bialaphos and kanamycin or UV inactivation of the donor species (Nicotiana megalosiphon) protoplasts. The hybrid nature of the individual clones obtained was confirmed by AFLP analysis. An array of plants were recovered including self-fertile hybrid plants with N. tabacum or N. megalosiphon phenotype, self-sterile plants with N. tabacum habit, leaf and intermediate flower morphology, self-sterile plants with N. megalosiphon habit, abnormal leaves and intermediate flowers, and self-sterile plants of N. megalosiphon type with abnormal characters. Viable pollen was observed in hybrid plants from the third group. The hybrids possessed a nuclear DNA content near that of the diploid tobacco or N. megalosiphon, and also near that of the tetraploid genome size of N. megalosiphon. The results provide evidence for nonpreferential loss of one of the parental genomes and spontaneous asymmetrization of hybrid plants. The present study shows that by means of somatic hybridization a great genetic diversity in the hybrid clones can be achieved.
23321162|N6-Benzyladenine (BA; 0.044 M) application to germinated Quercus suber somatic embryos considerably increased caulinar apex elongation frequency and maintained active growth in the plantlets, although it did not have a significant effect on the percentage of shoots with normal morphology. The addition of 0.5 M indoleacetic acid together with the cytokinin did not have any effect. The use of a low concentration (0.04 M) of BA allowed the appropriate radicle elongation in all germinating somatic embryos, but higher concentrations arrested this elongation.
20461693|A procedure for producing somatic embryos enriched with dibenzyl trisulfide (DTS) using a hormone-dependent culture system is reported for Petiveria alliacea L. (Guinea hen weed). Leaf explants were cultured on a Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with a range of naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) concentrations and a fixed concentration of benzyladenine (BAP) at 11.0 M and sucrose or glucose at 30 g l. Leaf explants cultured on all media types started to form callus at the cut surfaces of the discs 10-14 d after initiation. The type of sugar used influenced average fresh weight, the propensity to form roots, as well as the embryogenic response. The highest mean fresh weight (337.726.18 mg) and mean root number (23.71.69) was produced on media enriched with sucrose and supplemented with 53.7 M NAA and 11.0 M BAP. An ethanol extract of rhizogenic/embryogenic callus or somatic embryos was subjected to high-performance liquid chromatography analysis, which revealed the presence of DTS in both extracts. UV spectral analysis and the use of standard quantitation procedures showed that the quantity of DTS in the somatic embryo extract, at 0.16% (w/v), was approximately 30-fold higher than in rhizogenic/embryogenic callus (0.0055% w/v) of similar fresh weight. These results indicate that it is possible to biosynthesize approximately 6 mg of natural DTS from 3,808 mg of fresh somatic embryos within 10 wk from less than three leaf explants.
40981324|In an analysis of 339 independent T transgenic rice lines generated by Agrobacterium-mGdiatGd transformation, albino plants appeared in the T generation in two single-copy transgenic lines, O54 and O36 and in one double-copy transgenic line, C18. While the T plants of these three lines were green, albino and green plants emerged in a 1:3 ratio in the T generation. The albino phenotype segregated as a monogenic recessive trait. Southern blot analysis of the green and albino plants in the T generation confirmed that the albino trait and the T-DNA insertion events were unlinked. Segregation of the albino trait from the transgenic trait in the lines O54 and O36 was confirmed in T and T generations, respectively. Homozygous transgenic plants free from the albino trait were also identified. In the double-copy transgenic line 18, we genetically separated the two transgenic loci, outsegregated the albino locus from both transgene loci, and identified homozygous plants for each of the transgenic events by Southern blot analysis in the T generation itself. Thus, we demonstrate that when an albino trait appears in the T generation and is unlinked to a transgene locus, the albino locus can be segregated from the transgene locus and homozygous transgenic lines free from albinos can be established.
20461711|Several authors have suggested that plant biotechnologists perform regression or trend analysis to compare means of related quantitative treatments (e.g., doses of inositol). The present paper compares two statistical strategies to determine the effect of inositol (0-400 mg l) on proteolytic activity in the culture medium during pineapple growth in temporary immersion bioreactors. Strategy 1 involved one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) followed by Tukey's Honestly Significant Difference (HSD). Strategy 2 consisted in the development of different regression analyses to determine the best fit equations to describe the experimental results. Curvefit software (version 2.10-0, May 15, 1987, Thomas S. Cox) was used. Cauchy, Normal, Parabola, and Hoerl equations were the best fitted according to their determination coefficients (R). The optimal inositol concentrations to increase proteolytic activity were determined from the equations. Quite different results were obtained following strategy 2: 126.76 mg l inositol from Cauchy, 131.29 mg l from Normal, 145.06 mg l from Parabola, and 14.05 mg l from Hoerl equations. In contrast, experimental data identified 200 mg l inositol as the most adequate concentration to increase proteolytic activity in the culture medium. The statistical strategy 1, one-way ANOVA followed by Tukey HSD clearly supported this biological observation. In this paper, regression analysis was not useful to describe our experimental results.
4292916|Recent advances in plant molecular biology have depended largely on the development of efficient methods of introducing foreign DNA into plant cells. Gene transfer into plant cells can be achieved by either direct uptake of DNA or the natural process of gene transfer carried out by the soil bacterium Agrobacterium. Although both of these processes allow the generation of stably transformed plants, the former offers the advantage of allowing the study of transient expression of gene constructs in protoplasts cultured in vitro. In addition to the potential application of transgenic plants in agriculture and biotechnology they can be used to study the expression of foreign DNA, to carry out the functional analysis of plant DNA sequences, to investigate the mechanism of viral DNA replication and cell-to-cell spread, as well as to study transposition. Moreover, the versatility of the gene transfer vectors is such that they may be used to isolate genes unamenable to isolation using conventional protocols.
4293681|The use of scaled-up liquid cultures could be an efficient system for mass propagation of Narcissus, as it can greatly reduce the costs involved with manual handling. Induction of hyperhydric meristematic leaf section clusters and proliferation were carried out in an ancymidol (ANC)-containing liquid medium in flasks and disposable presterilized plastic bioreactors. Non-hyperhydric bulblets started to develop from hyperhydric meristematic leaf section clusters after subculture on a 0.8% agar strength medium, and young bulbs formed after 10 mo. in vivo acclimatization with a 98% survival rate. The present study reveals that in Narcissus leaf sections cultured in liquid medium, morphogenetic changes in leaf sections were associated with metabolic changes. The changes in carbohydrate, protein, and water potential of the liquid media and leaf sections were found to be closely related to meristematic center initiation on Narcissus hyperhydric leaf sections. Starch, sucrose, and glucose were significantly higher in the hyperhydric leaf sections cultured in ANC medium. The water potential was significantly higher in ANC-treated leaf sections and significantly lower in the medium containing ANC, at the stage shortly before or after hyperhydricity and meristematic centers began forming on the leaf sections. A 30 kDa protein was found to be present in the hyperhydric leaf sections. Based on the present study, a large-scale micropropagation protocol of Narcissus in agar and liquid cultures is proposed.
42568711|The regeneration potential, antioxidative enzyme activities, and genetic stability among micropropagated plantlets of Dianthus caryophyllus L. were evaluated. Multiple adventitious shoots were induced from leaf explants on Murashige and Skoog medium incorporated with various combinations and concentrations of plant growth regulators (PGRs). The highest leaf expiant response (90%), number of shoots per explant (15.301.19), and shoot length (6.750.63 cm) was recorded in response to a combination of 2.5 M 6-benzyladenine and 0.5 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) after 8 wks culture. Subsequent subculturing for five passages, on a medium with the same composition of PGRs, induced the highest shoot number (42.501.44), with an average shoot length of 8.06 cm after the fourth subculture. Different concentrations of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) were tested to determine the optimum conditions for ex vitro rooting of microshoots. The best result was accomplished with a pulse treatment of IBA (100 M) applied to the basal end of the microshoot for 30 min, followed by transfer to plastic cups containing soilrite, and eventually established in natural soil with an 85% survival rate. The determination of activities of antioxidative enzymes (superoxide dismutase, ascorbate peroxidase, catalase, and glutathione reductase) revealed involvement of these enzymes in shoot differentiation and development. All of these activities were interlinked with each other and played significant roles in the scavenging of toxic free radicals. Intersimple sequence repeat DNA analysis was carried out using five primers. The amplification products were monomorphic in micropropagated plants, similar to those of the mother plant. No polymorphisms were detected revealing the genetic integrity of the micropropagated plants.
4293038|The Ringo Rose cultivar of zonal geranium (Pelargonium x hortorum Bailey) has been shown to be morphogenetically unresponsive. Attempts to improve somatic embryogenesis using various seed stress treatments before germination proved ineffective. However, bacterial contamination of one of the seed-stress treatments led to infected explants that had a significant increase in frequency of high-quality somatic embryos. The co-cultivation of explants with the isolated bacterium (tentatively identified as Bacillus sp.) was found to be repeatable, and potentially represents a novel way to improve morphogenesis in geranium and possibly other species.
4293491|Somatic embryogenesis from nucellus-derived callus cultures of five cultivars, including three (Caipira, Seleta Vermelha, and Valencia) of sweet oranges (C. sinensis L. Osbeck), Rangpur lime (C. limonia L. Osbeck), and Cleopatra mandarin (C. reticulata Blanco) (lines I and II), were studied. Callus lines maintained on MT medium supplemented with
4293264|A forced ventilation system has been developed for large-scale photoautotrophic micropropagation of chlorophyllous plants. The major goal of the system is to provide a uniform supply of CO
20541028|This work presents detailed comparative analysis on the production economics of both current and future biofuels, including ethanol, biodiesel, and butanol. Our objectives include demonstrating the impact of key parameters on the overall process economics (e.g., plant capacity, raw material pricing, and yield) and comparing how next-generation technologies and fuels will differ from today's technologies. The commercialized processes and corresponding economics presented here include corn-based ethanol, sugarcane-based ethanol, and soy-based biodiesel. While actual full-scale economic data are available for these processes, they have also been modeled using detailed process simulation. For future biofuel technologies, detailed techno-economic data exist for cellulosic ethanol from both biochemical and thermochemical conversion. In addition, similar techno-economic models have been created for n-butanol production based on publicly available literature data. Key technical and economic challenges facing all of these biofuels are discussed.
20541033|C4 grasses are among the most productive plants and most promising cellulosic biofuel feedstocks. Successful implementation of cellulosic biofuel feedstocks will depend on the improvement of critical crop characteristics and subsequent conversion technologies. The content and composition of lignin, cellulose, and hemicellulose, their biomass yields, and their biotic and abiotic stress tolerances are critical factors which can be enhanced by molecular breeding methods, including marker-assisted selection and transgenic approaches. To maximize biomass yield, no flowering or late flowering and no grain set would be ideal for cellulosic biofuel crops. Reducing fecundity also reduces the risk of undesired gene transfer and invasiveness, thus accelerating deregulation processes and permitting faster implementation of highly improved genotypes in cellulosic feedstock production.
4293499|The production of five new somatic hybrids with potential for improved disease resistance is reported herein. Protoplast isolation, fusion, and plant regeneration was achieved from Caipira sweet orange (Citrus sinensis L. Osbeck) as an embryogenic parental source and Volkamer lemon (C. volkameriana Pasquale), Cleopatra mandarin (C. reticulata Blanco), and Rough lemon (C. jambhiri Lushington) as non-embryogenic parental sources. Fusion involving Cleopatra mandarin and Rangpur lime (C. limonia L. Osbeck) as embryogenic parental sources with Sour orange (C. aurantium L.) also resulted in somatic hybrid plants. Somatic hybridization was confirmed by leaf morphology evaluation, chromosome counting, and randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analyses. Somatic hybrids may combine complementary characteristics from both parental sources and have potential for tolerance to blight and citrus tristeza virus (CTV).
20541047|The influence of flask sealing on eggplant morphogenic responses and morpho-anatomical characteristics was evaluated. Eggplant seeds from the cultivar Embu were disinfected and inoculated in MS medium supplemented with B vitamins, 0.55 mM myo-inositol, 2% (w/v) sucrose, and 0.65% (w/v) agar. NAA (53.7 M) and IAA (0.57 M) were added to the medium to elicit morphogenic responses from cotyledon and hypocotyl explants via somatic embryogenesis and organogenesis, respectively. The plates were sealed with Micropore 3M, Parafilm, or polyvinyl chloride (PVC) film. The effect of glass vessel capping on morphogenesis was also evaluated for shoot apexes inoculated on medium containing half-strength MS where the capping consisted of polypropylene lids with or without two vents (0.45-m MilliSeal air vent) and PVC film. Leaf histological analysis and leaf bleaching from each treatment were performed. No significant differences were observed in the number of embryos and root primordia in media containing either 53.7 M NAA or 0.57 M IAA. However, embryogenic calli fresh weight was higher for PVC and Parafilm. Morphogenesis from the shoot apex was influenced, except the plant height. Plants maintained in glass flasks capped with vented lids showed more vigorous growth and differentiated anatomical structures compared to plants under other treatments. This treatment resulted in more expanded leaves, wider stems, and higher dry and fresh weights. In all treatments, the number of stomata was higher in the abaxial surfaces of leaves. Our results indicate that the flasks with vents provided air exchange beneficial for plant morphogenesis.
4293899|The photosynthetic capacity changes and the main enzymatic systems related to carbon metabolism were investigated during the in vitro culture of plantain shoots (Musa AAB cv. CEMSA 3/4) in temporary immersion bioreactors (TIB) and their subsequent acclimatization. The maximal rate of photosynthesis (Pn), transpiration, and the activity of the carbon metabolism enzymes phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC), acid invertase (AI), pyruvate kinase (PK) and sucrose phosphate synthase (SPS) were measured every 7d during the 21 d of elongation in TIB, and the following 42 d of acclimatization. Sucrose content in the liquid medium and in the leaves was also determined. The most significant changes in plant growth were observed during acclimatization. During the in vitro stage photosynthesis was limited (
23321151|A procedure for plant regeneration, flower and plant formation from petiolar and inflorescence nodal explants of culantro is described. Leaf petioles were excised from young leaves of non-flowering plants while nodal explants were excised from the inflorescence. Explants were cultured in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium alone or supplemented with 0.5 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 0.9, 1.8, 4.5, or 9 M thidiazuron (TDZ). All explants produced multiple shoots. In addition, nodal explants formed flowers. Shoot number, flower number and shoot length were influenced by TDZ and NAA. Rooted shoots from both types of explants were transferred to soil where plants were successfully established.
23255667|Picrorhiza kurroa Royle ex. Benth. is a medicinal herb of immense therapeutic value with restricted geographic distribution. Efficient plant regeneration via direct organogenesis and Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated genetic transformation was developed for this plant. Multiple shoot bud induction was achieved from leaf explants cultured in Gamborg's B5 medium containing 3% (w/v) sucrose, 3 mg/l kinetin and 1 mg/l indole-3-butyric acid. More than 90% of leaf explants formed shoot buds leading to whole plant regeneration. An Agrobacterium-mediated genetic transformation protocol was developed using A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 harboring binary vector pCAMBIA1302 containing the green fluorescent protein and hygromycin phosphotransferase genes. Leaf explants precultured for 2 d were the most suitable for co-cultivation with Agrobacterium and transformation efficiency was enhanced with 200 M acetosyringone. Putative transformants were selected using media containing 15 mg/l hygromycin. Transformation was verified by detection of the green fluorescent protein using fluorescence microscopy and by polymerase chain reaction. Approximately 56% of the explants were transformed with an average of 3.40.4 transgenic plantlets per explant. An efficient regeneration and transformation protocol thus developed enabling a fresh perspective of metabolic engineering in P. kurroa using an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. This is the first report of direct organogenesis from leaf explants and genetic transformation of P. kurroa.
42568714|A healthy root system is vital for tissue culture plantlet survival and rapid adaptation from the in vitro microenvironment to glasshouse conditions. Optimization of the root induction medium is an effective way to promote root induction and elongation. Levels of three auxins (anaphthaleneacetic acid [NAA], 3-indoleacetic acid [IAA], and 3-indolebutyric acid [IBA]) and copper sulfate (CuSO) have been investigated in a series of experiments with a sorghum inbred line, Tx430. Significant improvement in root proliferation and shoot growth were observed on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 1 mol/L CuSO, mg/L NAA, 1 mg/L IAA, and 1 mg/L IBA. On average, one explant (the original in vzYro-derived shoot) of Tx430 regenerated 56.7 roots, which was 20-fold higher on the optimal medium than on MS control medium. Another tested genotype SA281 showed similar response patterns as Tx430 across media. In addition, 100% of Tx430 and SA281 plantlets originating from the optimized root induction medium all survived after being transferred to potting soil in the glasshouse. The results demonstrate that a combination of auxins (NAA, IAA, and IBA) and CuSO together at optimal concentrations provide additive effects on promoting root proliferation and expiant growth of in vitro sorghum in root induction medium, and subsequently resulted in 100% survival rate of plantlets ex tissue culture. Compared with two published and frequently used root induction media, the optimized medium significantly enhanced root induction and plantlet growth.
4293049|Cotyledonary somatic embryos of Larixx x leptoeuropaea that developed after various maturation times on media containing abscisic acid showed different frequencies of conversion into plants. Drying of these somatic embryos under high relative humidity (RH) before germination improved plantlet recovery and eliminated differences in the performance of somatic embryos matured for different times. However, dehydration of somatic embryos under 98% RH to a water content below that of zygotic embryos excised from mature seeds (0.97 and
4293879|Bioengineering approaches provide unprecedented opportunities for reducing poverty, food insecurity, child malnutrition, and natural resource degradation. Genetic engineering offers outstanding potential to increase the efficiency of crop improvement. Thus agricultural biotechnology could enhance global food production and availability in a sustainable way. Small farmers in developing countries are faced with many problems and constraints which biotechnology may assist. Yet, there are varying levels of opposition to the use of this technology in most countries and it is especially intense in Europe. While there is certain public apprehension with the use of bioengineering in food improvement, the primary hurdles facing this technology are the stringent and burdensome regulatory requirements for commercialization, opposition from the special interest groups, apprehension by the food industry especially with the whole foods, and trade barriers including rigid policies on traceability and labeling. Bioengineered crops such as soybean, maize, cotton, and canola with a few traits have already made a remarkable impact on food production and environmental quality. But, in the developing world, bioengineering of crops such as bananas, cassava, yams, sweet potatoes, sorghum, rice, maize, wheat, millet, and legumes, along with livestock, can clearly contribute to global food security. However, the integration of biotechnology into agricultural research in developing countries faces many challenges which must be addressed: financial, technical, political, environmental, activism, intellectual-property, biosafety, and trade-related issues. To ensure that developing countries can harness the benefit of this technology with minimal problems, concerted efforts must be pursued to create an awareness of its potential benefits and to address the concerns related to its use through dialog among the various stakeholders: policy makers, scientists, trade groups, food industry, consumer organizations, farmer groups, media, and non-governmental organizations. Biotechnology holds great promise as a new tool in the scientific toolkit for generating applied agricultural technologies; however, per se it is not a panacea for the world's problems of hunger and poverty.
4293915| An efficient system to regenerate shoots on excised sepals (calyx) of greenhouse-grown 'Bounty' strawberry (Fragaria x ananassa Duch.) was developed in vitro. Sepal cultures produced multiple buds and shoots without an intermediary callus phase on 2-4 M 1-phenyl-3-(1,2,3-thiadiazol-5-yl) urea (thidiazuron, TDZ)-containing shoot induction medium within 4-5 wk of culture initiation. Young expanding sepals with the adaxial side touching the culture medium and maintained for 14 d in darkness produced the best results. In a second experiment, sepals proved more effective than the leaf discs and petiole segments for regenerating shoots. A third experiment compared the effects of six concentrations of two cytokinins (TDZ at 0, 0.5, 2, and 4 M and zeatin at 2 and 4 M) for elongation of sepal-derived adventitious shoots. The media containing TDZ generally promoted more callus formation and suppressed shoot elongation. TDZ-initiated cultures transferred into the medium containing 2-4 M zeatin, produced usable shoots after one additional subculture. Shoots were rooted in vitro in the same medium used for shoot regeneration, but without any growth regulators. When transferred to potting medium, 85-90% of in vitro plantlets survived. 
4293393|A research program to develop an in vitro culture technique adapted to very immature Phaseolus zygotic embryos indicated that osmolality within young pods in vivo ranged from 580 to 350 mosm during the first 10 d after pollination. Different culture techniques for 2-d-old Phaseolus pods are described using a modified Phillips medium for maturation. The application of high and variable osmolality conditions, similar to what is observed in vivo, during pod culture (1 wk) and before extracting the embryos, gave the best results in terms of ovule and embryo development. To solve contamination problems affecting pod development during these investigations, a sterilizing technique was tested combining various concentrations of polyoxyethylenesorbitan monolaurate (Tween 20) and a broad-spectrum industrial biocide, Plant Preservative Mixture (PPM). The PPM sterilizing method totally eliminated pod contamination and did not affect ovule growth, but significantly reduced the embryo germination rate.
4292928|To quantify the C-metabolism in micropropagated roses, two labeled substrates were tested:
23321164|The biolistic method was used to introduce DNA into cotyledons of Acacia mangium and A. mearnsii. The -glucuronidase gene (gus) and the green fluorescent protein gene (gfp) were tested as reporter genes to study the effects of acceleration pressure and pre- and post-bombardment osmotic treatments. These consisted of incubating the explants in the presence of sucrose, mannitol, and sorbitol for several hours before or after bombardment with microprojectiles. High acceleration pressure slightly enhanced gus expression in both species tissues. Osmotic treatments significantly improved expression of both reporter genes introduced into A. mearnsii cotyledons. The best transient expression was observed in these tissues when they were treated with mannitol and sorbitol (0.3 or 0.4 M each) for 34 h before the bombardment and 3 h afterwards. However, the same treatments did not affect the expression of the gus gene introduced in A. mangium explants.
4293761| An efficient procedure for the in vitro propagation and cryogenic conservation of Syzygium francissi was developed. The maximum number of shoots per explant was obtained on a Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 4.5 M benzyladenine and 0.5 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). The in vitro-propagated shoots produced roots when transferred to MS medium containing IBA, indole-3-acetic acid, or naphthaleneacetic acid at various concentrations. Rooted microshoots were transferred to a coco-peat, perlite, and vermiculite (1:1:1) mixture, and hardened off under greenhouse conditions. Ninety-five percent of rooted shoots successfully acclimatized in the greenhouse. Shoot tips excised from in vitro-grown plants were successfully cryostoraged at - 196C by the encapsulation-dehydration method. A preculture of formed beads on MS medium containing 0.75 M sucrose for 1 d, followed by 6h dehydration (20% moisture content) led to the highest survival rate after cryostorage for 1h. This method is a promising technique for in vitro propagation and cryopreservation of shoot tips from in vitro-grown plantlets of S. francissi germplasm. 
20461555|A procedure for regenerating Zizyphus jujuba Mill. (Chinese date) plante through repetitive somatic embryogenesis (RSE) was developed. Primary somatic embryos were produced from cotyledon-derived cultures of germinated plants in vitro. The highest induction frequency of primary somatic embryogenesis (PSE) was obtained with a combination of 4.52 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 0.49 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), and 0.44 M benzyladenine (BA) (17.4%). These primary somatic embryos were multiplied by RSE on media with different plant growth regulator (PGR) combinations. The highest RSE frequency (51.3%) was obtained with 0.58 M gibberellic acid (GA). However, the highest number (4.4 per primary somatic embryo) of repetitive somatic embryos was obtained with 0.98 M 6-r-r-dimethylallylaminopurine (2-iP). For germination of somatic embryos, different PGRs, cold and desiccation treatments were tested. Desiccation of somatic embryos at 25  1C for 2 wk was the best treatment for germination with epicotyl elongation and root development. Of over 256 plants regenerated, 237 (92.6%) survived.
20064804|One of the most characteristic cell functions in plants is totipotency. Somatic embryogenesis can be regarded as a model system for the investigation of mechanisms of totipotency, because a high frequency and synchronous embryogenic system from single somatic cells has been established in carrot suspension cultures. Four phases are recognized in this process, and several molecular markers, viz. polypeptides, mRNAs, antigens against monoclonal antibodies, can be detected during the expression of totipotency, but they disappear during its loss. Four organ-specific genes have been isolated from hypocotyls and roots by differential screening. They were expressed preferentially after the globular-heart stages of embryogenesis, and were strongly suppressed by auxin. A CEM 1 gene was isolated by differential screening of embryogenic cell clusters. This gene was expressed strongly and transiently during the proglobular and globular stages. The sequence of CEM 1 was found to encode a polypeptide showing high homology to the elongation factor isolated from eucaryotic cells. Thus good progress is being made in understanding the basic mechanisms of somatic embryogenesis.
20461561|Photomixotrophic (Pm) micropropagation systems (ones that use a sugar-containing medium) have been used by many researchers for transplant production of St. John's wort. However, these methods have not yet been adopted for commercial applications, probably due to the low percentage of regeneration in vitro, and a low growth rate after transplanting ex vitro. In contrast, it is well known that the use of a photoautotrophic (Pa) micropropagation system (one that uses sugar-free medium) can promote the growth and improve the quality of plantlets in vitro, and enhance the growth during acclimatization for many plant species. In the current study, leafy nodal cuttings were cultured under Pa conditions and the growth and quality were compared with those cultured under Pm conditions. After 21 d of culture, Pa conditions enhanced the growth and quality of St. John's wort plantlets in vitro, and these plantlets showed faster growth after transplanting ex vitro compared with those cultured under Pm conditions.
4293376|An in vitro culture system was developed for Typhonium flagelliforme using buds from the rhizomes. The mineral salts of four media were tested. These were Murashige and Skoog (MS), Nitsch and Nitsch (NN), Gamborg B5 (GB5) and White (W) of which MS medium was found to be the best medium for in vitro culture of T. flagelliforme. The addition of as low as
29736221|Conditions for obtaining an efficient mass propagation procedure to overcome isolated Taxus baccata embryo dormancy were investigated. The protocol herein described was efficient for overcoming the dormancy of T. baccata isolated embryos under in vitro conditions, enabling the conservation and propagation of this species. T. baccata seeds were unable to germinate directly after collection under in vitro conditions. Very good sterility and germination was achieved by soaking seeds in distilled water at a low temperature (+4C) at least for 48 h instead of leaching them for 7 d under running water, followed by maintaining isolated embryos on the Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) supplemented with 5 g 1 activated charcoal. That treatment allowed one to shorten the time of the experiment and gave almost 100% sterility. The best germination was observed in darkness, but to obtain worthy seedlings, it was necessary to place cultures in a 16-h photoperiod after a 2-wk incubation. There was no significant difference in germination between seeds collected from different populations of Southern Poland.
4293614| Efficient and highly reproducible induction of somatic embryogenesis was obtained in four out of seven selected clones of neem, Azadirachta indica A. Juss. This was achieved either directly from root and nodal explants or indirectly from callus cultures initiated from leaf explants excised from 1-yr-old axenic plants. Direct induction of somatic embryogenesis was achieved both from nodal and root segments within 8 wk of culture on MS1 medium without growth regulators. However, the addition of 2.3-4.5 M thidiazuron and 0.5 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid into the medium were necessary to induce somatic embryogenesis via callus phase from leaf explants. Repetitive embryogenesis was observed within 3-4wk following transfer of somatic embryos to a plant growth regulator-free medium. When somatic embryos of nodal and root segments were left on the induction medium without subculturing, approximately 15% of the somatic embryos developed into whole plantlets after passing through a series of developmental stages. Plantlets thus produced were hardy, lush green, and acclimatized easily under greenhouse conditions. However, somatic embryos derived from leaf explants showed low conversion rates (< 5%). HPLC analysis revealed no detectable levels of azadirachtin in somatic embryos. 
20461674|Sesamum indicum L. was used as an important oil crop in the world. An efficient protocol for in vitro plant regeneration via adventitious shoot formation from deembryonated cotyledon explants isolated from mature seeds of sesame is developed. Optimal medium for direct adventitious shoot formation was Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 22.2 M 6-benzylaminopurin (BA) and 5.7 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Abscisic acid (3.8 M ABA) and AgNO (29.4 M) were effective in enhancing the frequency of adventitious shoot formation. Preculture of cotyledon explants on high sucrose concentration (6-9%) for 2 wk and subsequent transfer to 3% sucrose enhanced the frequency of adventitious shoot induction. Root formation from the adventitious shoots was easily achieved on MS medium containing 2.7 M of -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA). Regenerated plantlets were acclimatized on sand and peat moss (1:1), showing 95% survival with subsequent flowering and seed set. We established the high-frequency plant regeneration via adventitious shoot formation in S. indicum L.
20461549|In vitro techniques have found increasing use in the conservation of threatened plants in recent years and this trend is likely to continue as more species face risk of extinction. The Micropropagation Unit at Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, UK (RBG Kew) has an extensive collection of in vitro plants including many threatened species from throughout the world. The long history of the unit and the range of plants cultured have enabled considerable expertise to be amassed in identifying the problems and developing experimental strategies for propagation and conservation of threatened plants. While a large body of knowledge is available on the in vitro culture of plants, there are limited publications relating to threatened plant conservation. This review highlights the progress in in vitro culture and conservation of threatened plants in the past decade (1995-2005) and suggests future research directions. Works on non-threatened plants are also included wherever methods have applications in rare plant conservation. Recalcitrant plant materials collected from the wild or ex situ collections are difficult to grow in culture. Different methods of sterilization and other treatments to establish clean material for culture initiation are reviewed. Application of different culture methods for multiplication, and use of unconventional materials for rooting and transplantation are reviewed. As the available plant material for culture initiation is scarce and in many cases associated with inherent problems such as low viability and endogenous contamination, reliable protocols on multiplication, rooting, and storage methods are very important. In this context, photoautotrophic micropropagation has the potential for development as a routine method for the in vitro conservation of endangered plants. Long-term storage of material in culture is challenging and the potential applications of cryopreservation are significant in this area. Future conservation biotechnology research and its applications must be aimed at conserving highly threatened, mainly endemic, plants from conservation hotspots.
4293492|This study was conducted to examine the effect of biotin and thiamine concentrations on callus growth and somatic embryogenesis of date palm (Phoenix dactylifera L.). Embryogenic callus derived from offshoot tip explants was cultured on hormone-free MS medium containing biotin at 0, 0.1, 1, or
20461645|An efficient protocol was developed for micropropagation of an economically important timber-yielding multipurpose tree, Pterocarpus marsupium Roxb. Multiple shoots were induced from cotyledonary nodes (CNs) derived from 18-d-old axenic seedlings on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with thidiazuron (TDZ) (0.1-10 M). The highest shoot regeneration frequency (90%) and maximum number (15.20.20) of shoots per explant was recorded on MS medium amended with 0.4 M TDZ. Continuous presence of TDZ inhibited shoot elongation. In the primary medium, TDZ-initiated cultures were transferred to the secondary medium supplemented with another cytokinin, 6-benzyladenine (BA), for shoot growth and elongation. Maximum (90%) shoot elongation with an average shoot length of 5.40.06 cm was observed at 5 M BA. To further enhance the number of shoots per explant, mother tissue was repeatedly subcultured on fresh shoot induction medium after each harvest of newly formed shoots. Thus, by adopting this strategy, an average of 44 shoots per explant could be obtained. About 65% of in vitro regenerated shoots produced a maximum number (4.40.2) of roots per shoot by a two-step culture procedure employing pulse treatment and subsequent transfer of treated shoots to a low concentration of 0.2 M indole-3-butyric acid along with phloroglucinol (3.96 M). The in vitro-raised plantlets were successfully acclimatized first under culture room conditions, then to greenhouse with 70% survival rate.
4293743| Although pineapple plants have been found to produce proteases ex vitro, most of the biotechnological investigations on this crop have been focused on propagation. The procedure involving the use of temporary immersion bioreactors is one of the most outstanding because of its high multiplication rate. We previously recorded specific protease activity in the culture medium during the pre-elongation step of this protocol. Therefore, we decided to modify the culture medium composition of this phase looking for an increase in protease excretion. Four independent experiments were performed to evaluate the effects of different levels of sucrose (0-350.4 mM), inorganic salts [0-200% Murashige and Skoog (MS) salt strength], inositol (0-2.20 mM), and thiamine (0-1.2 M). The following indicators were recorded: shoot fresh mass per bioreactor; and protein concentration, proteolytic activity, and specific protease activity in culture media. Specifie protease activity, the most important indicator recorded, was highest with 262.8 mM sucrose, 100% MS salt strength, 0.3 M thiamine and no inositol. Results shown here demonstrate that conditions adequate for propagation purposes (87.6 mM sucrose, 100% MS salt strength, 0.55 mM inositol, 0.3 M thiamine) are not always adequate for protease excretion. 
20461723|Comparative analysis of zygotic and somatic embryogenesis of Acca sellowiana showed higher amounts of sucrose, fructose, raffinose, and myo-inositol in zygotic embryos at different developmental stages than in corresponding somatic ones. These differences were mostly constant. In general, glucose levels were significantly lower than the other soluble carbohydrates analyzed, showing minor variation in each embryo stage. Despite the presence of sucrose in the culture medium, its levels conspicuously diminished in somatic embryos compared with the zygotic ones. Raffinose enhanced parallel to embryo development, regardless of its zygotic or somatic origin. Analysis of the soluble carbohydrate composition of mature zygotic cotyledon used as explant pointed out fructose, glucose, myoinositol, sucrose, and raffinose as the most important. Similar composition was also found in the corresponding somatic cotyledon. Total soluble carbohydrates varied inversely, decreasing in zygotic embryos and increasing in somatic embryos until the 24th d, at which time they increased rapidly about sixfold in zygotic embryos until the 27th d, a period coinciding with the zygotic proembryos formation. Such condition seems to reflect directly the variation of endogenous sucrose level, mainly because glucose and fructose diminished continuously during this time period. This means that, in terms of soluble sugars, zygotic embryo formation occurred under a situation represented by high sucrose amounts, simultaneously with low fructose and glucose levels, while in contrast, somatic embryo formation took place under an endogenous sugar status characterized by a substantial fructose enhancement. Starch levels increased continuously in zygotic embryos and decreased in somatic ones, the reverse to what was found in fructose variation. Starch accumulation was significantly higher in somatic torpedo and cotyledonary embryos than in the corresponding zygotic ones.
4293047|Embryogenic cultures have been produced for a wide range of conifers and current methods developed for spruce permit the maturation of high quality embryos that can be desiccated and then germinated to form plantlets. Embryogenic suspensions consisting of immature embryos are an excellent source of regenerable protoplasts. This review considers examples of applications of embryogenic suspension cultures for basic studies in three areas of plant cell biology, a) Immunofluorescence studies of microtubules in mitotic spruce cells reveal focused spindle poles at prophase and anaphase, suggesting the presence of microtubule organizing centers (MTOCs). Antibodies known to recognize animal MTOCs do not stain the polar regions but do stain developing kinetochores. b) Embryo-derived protoplasts regenerate directly to somatic embryos. Fluorescence studies of the cytoskeleton in freshly derived protoplasts reveal random cortical microtubules and a fine network of actin filaments. During culture, protoplasts change shape and develop transverse cortical microtubule arrays. Embryonal cells of newly formed embryos possess distinctive arrays of cortical microtubules and networks of fine actin filaments while suspensor cells are characterized by transverse cortical microtubules and longitudinal actin cables, c) Transmission electron microscope studies of endocytosis in spruce protoplasts reveal an endocytotic pathway similar to that described previously for soybean. Uptake results are confirmed using high pressure freeze fixation instead of conventional chemical fixation.
4293168| Peanut seeds germinated on media supplemented with thidiazuron [TDZ: N-phenyl-N'-(1,2,3-thiadiazol-yl)urea], formed somatic embryos at the hypocotyledonary notch region by Day 35 of the culture period. Supplementation of the culture media with proline, thioproline, or glutamine reduced the total number of embryos formed, but the resulting embryos were larger, greener and had a more synchronous development than the regenerants formed on media containing TDZ alone. Analysis of the endogenous amino acid content of the germinating seeds during the induction phase of somatic embryogenesis revealed accumulation of proline to 6% of the dry seed weight. Concurrent with the emergence of the radicle, the proline concentration remained significantly elevated throughout the expression phase of embryogenesis. Several other amino acids including alanine, aspartate, asparagine, glutamate, glutamine, -aminobutyrate (GABA), hydroxyproline, isoleucine, threonine and valine accumulated to peak values approximately 10-fold higher than those of the controls. These results indicate that proline plays a key role in directing the route of TDZ-induced somatic embryogenesis and that TDZ effectively stimulates a cascade of metabolic events resulting in the production of specific metabolites, including amino acids, required for the regenerative process. 
20171634| Procedures for callus induction and subsequent organogenesis in the aquatic plant, water chestnut (Trapa japonica Flerov), were established. Phenolics exuded from explants at the callus-induction stage adversely affect callus growth. For cotyledonary node-derived callus cultured in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (full, half or quarter strength) containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) alone or in combination with benzyladenine (BA), the accumulation of phenolics was reduced and callus induction increased by the addition of 10.8 M phloroglucinol (PG) to the medium. Ascorbic acid was also effective in reducing phenolic accumulation, but less effective for callus induction than PG. Half-strength MS medium supplemented with 2.7 M 2,4-D, 108.0 M casein hydrolyzate, and 10.8 M PG supported maximum callus induction. Plant organogenesis was increased by addition of vitamins (0.27 M biotin and 2.7 M folic acid) to half-strength MS medium supplemented with 0.27 M BA. Many shoots developed from the regenerated nodal shoot explants in liquid half-strength MS salts medium supplemented with 1.08 M BA and 0.27 M naphthaleneacetic acid. Individual shoots were excised and cultured in liquid half-strength MS medium supplemented with 5.4 M IBA and rooted plantlets (108) were transferred and acclimatized in plastic pots. After 3 wk, the plantlets were transplanted in a water chestnut field and the survival rate was 100%. 
4293494|The synchronization of somatic embryo development in embryogenic suspension cultures is a crucial step in taking advantage of somatic embryogenesis for high production potential and reduction of unit cost through automation. In the present study, a synchronous somatic embryogenic system was developed for Fraxinus angustifolia suspension cultures. High cell density, 6-benzyladenine (BA) and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid proved essential for the establishment and maintenance of suspension cultures. Low cell density, BA and 1-naphthaleneacetic acid enhanced somatic embryo development. Cell and cell cluster fractionation by density gradient centrifugation in Ficoll solution proved useful for separation of subpopulations with differing potentials for embryo development. A synchronous development of somatic embryos at high frequency was achieved only from the heaviest cell population.
4292963|Significant progress has been made in development of transgenic plants containing agriculturally useful genes. Concurrent with scientific advances has been development of a regulatory infrastructure within the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) for assessing safety of controlled release of genetically engineered plants into the environment, as well as creation of a food policy by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Field trials and safety assessments of tomato containing an antisense polygalacturonase gene (FLAVR SAVR)[TRADE MARK] tomato) have been conducted. A detailed safety analysis of the kan
4293833|A protocol for micropropagation of Virginia-type peanut plants, an ancient crop of the New World, is reported. This study was conducted to explore the effect of silver nitrate (AgNO
20064954|In vitro rooted grape (Vitis vinifera L.) plantlets (4 or 8 wk from culturing microcuttings) were planted ex vitro in polythene sachets (24  12 cm) filled to one-third their height with planting mixture. The sachets were misted, closed, and incubated at ambient temperature (25-30C) under 16 h photoperiod (
4293772|Successful fundamental or basic research, while being stimulated by applied studies, provides the development of new technologies for the benefit of mankind. Photoautotrophic micropropagation or micropropagation using sugar-free medium is no exception from this generalization. The concept of photoautotrophic micropropagation is derived from research that revealed the relatively high photosynthetic abilities of chlorophyllous cultures such as leafy explants and plantlets in vitro. To meet the ever-increasing demand for quality transplants, the scaling-up of photoautotrophic micropropagation systems, for commercialization, has become necessary. This article reviews the recent advancement in the development and utilization of large culture vessels for photoautotrophic micropropagation with special emphasis on the feasibility of the system for the commercial-scale propagation. The review also includes choices for supporting material, ventilation type, planting density, vessel volume, and vessel sterilization procedure, and problems and solutions to achieve uniform growth in a large culture vessel. A case study of the commercial application of a photoautotrophic micropropagation system using large culture vessels, which recently has been established in Kunming, China, is also presented in this article.
42568816|Dendrocalamus hamiltonii is a giant, evergreen, clumping, multipurpose bamboo with strong culms which are mainly used for construction, handicrafts and fuel. The tender shoots are also used as food. Overexploitation of existing natural stocks coupled with harvesting of culms before seed formation, a long flowering cycle, irregular and poor seed production, short seed viability, seed sterility, limited availability of offsets and rhizomes and seasonal dependence are some of the major bottlenecks in conventional propagation of this species. Therefore, alternative methods like micropropagation can fill the gap in demand and supply of true-to-type planting material. Recently, our micropropagation protocol for rapid multiplication of D. hamiltonii through axillary bud proliferation using nodal expiants from mature culms was standardized, and more than 3,000 plants were transferred to the field. However, somaclonal variations are known to appear in the in vitro-derived clones due to culture-induced stresses. Therefore, the present investigation was conducted to ascertain the effect of the length of in vitro culture age on clonal fidelity of regenerated plants using random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD), inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR), amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) and simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers. The genomic DNA samples (i.e. mother plant, in vitro-raised shoots from the 3rd to 30th passage, and in vitro-raised plants transferred to the field) were subjected to PCR amplification using 90 primer combinations (25 each of RAPD, ISSR and SSR, and 15 AFLP primer combinations) of which 76 (23 RAPD, 24 ISSR, 21 SSR and 8 AFLP) markers showed amplified DNA fragments. The 23 RAPD primers produced 162 distinct amplified DNA fragments from 2 (OPE-5) to 16 (OPE-16) fragments per primer, while 24 ISSR primers produced 181 distinct amplified DNA fragments with an average of 7.5 fragments per primer. The number of bands generated by SSR primers varied from 3 (RM-7 and RM-240) to 14 (RM-44), and the eight combinations of AFLP primers produced 369 distinct and scorable amplified DNA fragments with an average of 46.1 fragments per primer. Appearance of monomorphic bands with all the tested primer combinations confirmed the true-to-type nature of the in vitro clones of D. hamiltonii and hence the suitability of the developed micropropagation protocol for commercial-scale plant production.
4293870|Commercial sugarcane, belonging to the genus Saccharum (Poaceae), is an important industrial crop accounting for nearly 70% of sugar produced worldwide. Compared to other major crops, efforts to improve sugarcane are limited and relatively recent, with the first introduction of interspecific hybrids about 80 yr ago. Progress in traditional breeding of sugarcane, a highly polyploid and frequently aneuploid plant, is impeded by its narrow gene pool, complex genome, poor fertility, and the long breeding/selection cycle. These constraints, however, make sugarcane a good candidate for molecular breeding. In the past decade considerable progress has been made in understanding and manipulating the sugarcane genome using various biotechnological and cell biological approaches. Notable among them are the creation of transgenic plants with improved agronomic or other important traits, advances in genomics and molecular markers, and progress in understanding the molecular aspects of sucrose transport and accumulation. More recently, substantial effort has been directed towards developing sugarcane as a biofactory for high-value products. While these achievements are commendable, a greater understanding of the sugarcane genome, and cell and whole plant physiology, will accelerate the implementation of commercially significant biotechnology outcomes. We anticipate that the rapid advancements in molecular biology and emerging biotechnology innovations would play a significant role in the future sugarcane crop improvement programs and offer many new opportunities to develop it as a new-generation industrial crop.
20064900|The yield of morphologically normal Stage 3 somatic embryos of white spruce [Picea glauca (Moench) Voss], and subsequent germinability, was affected by culture age and use of solid and/or liquid culture growth conditions. Of the conditions that were compared, best results were obtained with cultures up to 3 yr old that had been continuously grown in liquid medium. Such material yielded up to 374 morphologically normal Stage 3 embryos per g f. wt. inoculum, when routinely pretreated using a 1 wk 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid-free period before maturation. By comparison the continual use of solid culture conditions resulted in lower yields (5/g f. wt. inoculum), and the use of solid medium in combination with liquid medium showed a greater affect of age on the production of normal Stage 3 embryos (348/g f. wt. at 1.5 yr down to 19/g f. wt. at 3 yr) over the age range tested. In the absence of culture pretreatment, the oldest liquid cultures yielded only 44 normal Stage 3 embryos/g f. wt. inoculum, and the comparable solid to liquid cultures yielded 1.3/g f. wt. inoculum. The number of aberrant Stage 3 embryos in older cultures was reduced as a result of culture pretreatment; for example, in the oldest liquid cultures these represented 83% of the Stage 3 embryo population without pretreatment and 45% with pretreatment. Normal Stage 3 somatic embryo yield and germination characteristics (radicle and epicotyl development) were informative in distinguishing among the conditions studied. Germination characteristics were especially important when maturation responses were incapable of distinguishing among age classes.
20461756|Asparagus racemosus Willd. is an important medicinal plant of tropical and subtropical India. Its medicinal usage has been reported in the Indian and British Pharmacopoeias and in traditional systems of medicine such as Ayurveda, Unani, and Siddha. The multiple uses of this species have increased its commercial demand, resulting in over-exploitation. Because of destructive harvesting, the natural population of A. racemosus is rapidly disappearing, and it is recognized as 'vulnerable' (Warner et al., Some important medicinal plants of the Western Ghats, India: a profile. International Development Research Centre, Artstock, New Delhi, India, 15 pp, 2001). The development of an efficient micropropagation protocol will play a significant role in meeting the requirements for commercial cultivation, thereby conserving the species in its natural habitat. In the present study, in vitro shoot proliferation was obtained by culturing single node segments in Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium supplemented with 3.69 M 2-isopentyl adenine and 3% sucrose with a multiplication rate of 3.5. For proper root formation, the in vitro-formed shoot clusters were cultured on half strength (major salts reduced to half) MS medium with 1.61 M 1-naphthalene acetic acid, 0.46 M kinetin, 98.91 M adenine sulfate, 500 mg/l malt extract, 198.25 M phloroglucinol, and 3% sucrose. On this medium, 85% rooting was observed within 20 d. Following a simple hardening procedure involving sequential transfer of plants to a greenhouse, polyhouse, and shade net, the tissue-cultured plants were transferred to the field where the survival rate was 100%.
4293274|Cell autonomous anthocyanin pigmentation, produced by the anthocyanin regulatory genes B and C1 controlled by the constitutive CaMV35s promoter (pBC1-7), was used to optimize biolistic gene delivery into embryogenic wheat (Triticum aestivum L. cv 'Chris') scutellum cultures. Intensely pigmented callus cells were observed 24 h postbombardment but these cells did not continue to divide and were developmentally terminal. A population of nonexpressing cells generated transgenic sectors which showed light-dependent anthocyanin pigmentation. Anthocyanin pigmentation was suppressed in regenerating shoot cultures but reverted to light-dependent production in the pericarp of developing seeds. Similarly, following microtargeted gene delivery into apical meristems, anthocyanin production was developmentally suppressed in leaf base meristems but prominent anthocyanin sectors developed in mature tissues beyond this region and persisted throughout leaf growth. In three developmental situations, callus proliferation, plant regeneration, and leaf growth, perpetuation of cells with anthocyanin regulator genes under the control of constitutive promoters was dependent on a higher level of regulation to suppress pigmentation at developmentally sensitive stages of meristematic activity. These findings provide additional evidence that the anthocyanin regulatory genes may be responsive to a variety of developmental and environmental stimuli.
40981330|An efficient micropropagation system for Hylotelephium tatarinowii (Maxim.) H. Ohba, a rare medicinal plant, has been developed. Callus induced from leaf expiants placed onto Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with supplementation of plant growth regulators. When the concentration of 2,4-dicholorophenoxy acetic acid was as high as 2.0 mg l in combination with 0.5 mg l 6-benzylaminopurine (6-BAP), the callus induction rate reached 92.1%. Adventitious shoots were observed on callus exposed to 1.0 mg l 6-BAP, with 81.5% frequency of shoot regeneration after 30 d. Flower buds appeared after subculture. Regenerated shoots could flower normally in vitro. Up to 100% of the regenerated shoots formed complete plantlets on half-strength MS medium without any growth regulator, with an average of 5.9 roots per shoot expiant. Quantitative analysis of flavonoids and rutin showed that the phytochemical profile of callus and regenerated plants was similar to that of wild plants.
29736178|On a worldwide basis, parasitic weeds represent one of the most destructive and intractable problems to agricultural production in both developed and developing countries. About 20 families (3,000-5,000 species) of higher plants are parasitic on the plant kingdom and may cause production losses of 30-80% in staple food and industrial crops on every continent. Compared with the other weeds, parasitic weeds are difficult to control by conventional means because of their life style: Parasites are intimately involved with the host and have so much metabolic overlap with the host that differential treatments are very difficult to develop. In some cases, the parasites are closely associated to the host root, concealed underground, and undiagnosed until they irreversible damage the crop. Several different approaches (cultural, mechanical, chemical, use of resistant varieties, and biological) to control parasitic weeds are currently in use, but are only partially successful. Recent reviews have covered the physiology and interactions between parasitic plants and their hosts, taxonomy, and the biology and classical control of parasitic weeds. The current review will discuss why alternative methods are needed to control parasitic weeds and will summarize conventional and new biotechnology-based control measures against the major world pests Striga, Orobanche, Cuscuta, and mistletoes (Phoradendron and Viscum genera). Effectiveness, advantages and disadvantages, environment safety, and simplicity of these new biotechnological methods will be reviewed.
4293101|Regeneration of several varieties of soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill] by somatic embryogenesis from cultured epicotyls and primary leaves has been demonstrated. Somatic embryogenesis was induced from epicotyls and primary leaves when cotyledon halves with the intact zygotic embryo axes were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
4293588| A highly efficient protocol for callus induction and plant regeneration in Sorghum bicolor was developed by varying the concentrations of copper (0.1, 0.3, 0.5, 0.7, 1, 1.5, 2, 5 M) in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium. The mature embryos of Sorghum bicolor were cultured on MS medium containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (9 M), kinetin (2.3 M), and 3% (w/v) sucrose for embryogenic callus induction. Plant regeneration from this callus occurred on MS medium containing kinetin (9.2 M) and indole-3-acetic acid (2.85 M). A much greater response was noted on these media with higher levels of copper. Frequency of plant regeneration and number of regenerants dramatically increased with an optimal amount of copper (2 M) in the MS medium. Rooting of the regenerated shoots readily occurred on half-strength MS medium supplemented with -naphthaleneacetic acid (10.7 M) and 3% (w/v) sucrose. Well-developed plantlets were transferred to the field where 100% survival and normal seed setting was noted. 
4293231|Cotyledon expiants of Panax ginseng at various developmental stages were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with
4293125|Hypocotyl and leaf expiants from Passiflora edulis F. flavicarpa were evaluated for morphogenesis when cultured on several nutrient media supplemented with benzyladenine and indoleacetic acid. The effect of silver thiosulfate on growth-regulator-induced morphogenesis was also investigated. Murashige and Skoog medium was more effective than woody plant medium in promoting adventitious bud differentiation. The omission of ammonium or nitrate from the Murashige and Skoog medium and a disequilibrium from the Murashige and Skoog nitrate:ammonium ratio drastically reduced the bud-forming capacity of the expiants. The inclusion of silver thiosulfate in the culture medium significantly increased the differentiation and development of adventitious shoots. Regenerated shoots were excised and induced to root on basal Murashige and Skoog medium. Plants were transplanted to pots and grown ex vitro.
4293027|Tumors on both animals and plants arise as a result of loss of growth control, and in animal systems have been a source of many insights into regulatory mechanisms. We have attempted to develop a similar paradigm in plants by using ionizing radiation to induce tumors in Arabidopsis thaliana. From the primary tumors we have established a number of hormone autonomous tissue lines in culture which present a variety of phenotypes: leafy, rooty, and undifferentiated. These lines also differ from one another in their hormone content and in their response to exogenous hormones. Some tumor tissue lines have higher levels of free or conjugated auxin or cytokinin, whereas others do not. Some lines show the same growth response as normal callus when hormones are supplied in the growth medium, whereas others have increased or decreased sensitivity to hormones. Using subtraction hybridization, we have identified a number of cDNAs whose expression is enhanced in the tumors compared with hormone-dependent callus. Several of these cDNAs have been identified by homology with sequences in Genbank, and include a membrane channel protein, a lipid transfer protein and hydroxyproline- and glycine-rich proteins. The expression of these relatively abundant proteins may well be a consequence rather than a cause of tumorigenicity. Some of the less abundant transcripts remain unidentified. Two of the tumors described have shown secondary changes in culture, leading to faster-growing cell lines. In one case this was associated with an increase in free indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), a reduction in IAA conjugates and an increased sensitivity to naphthylphthalamic acid. In a second instance, the primary tumor had increased levels of cytokinin but was cytokinin insensitive while the fast-growing variants retained high cytokinin levels, had become cytokinin sensitive and acquired a shooty phenotype. Ways in which this approach to understanding plant hormones and growth control may be developed are discussed.
20064859|Haploid cells derived from the female gametophyte of Taxus brevifolia produce multinucleate egglike cells that have grown as cell suspensions over a 5-yr period. Two new media are formulated, one without nitrates, to select for haploid cell lines and to enhance free taxane production when cell lines are artificially aged by withholding subculture. The cell suspensions produce bound taxanes that are detectable with anti-taxane monoclonal antibodies on cell surfaces and on particles released into the culture medium. Recovery and detection of bound taxanes are based on a competitive inhibition enzyme immunoassay (CIEIA). Tissues extracted exhaustively with methanol then treated with xylanase release CIEIA-detectable taxanes. Approximately 300% more taxanes were detected in the xylanase-treated tissue culture material versus the control. Wood (winter bark) taken from T. brevifolia and treated in the same way with xylanase released 20% more taxanes than could be detected in the control.
4293829|The highest percentage of shoot regeneration of Costus speciosus was achieved using thin rhizome sections and triacontanol (TRIA). Factors affecting the rate of shoot multiplication and rooting with TRIA have been investigated. Initiation of shoot buds was observed when rhizome thin sections were cultured on B
20461673|In Japanese larch (Larix leptolepis Gordon), a well-developed suspensor forms during somatic embryogenesis. The suspensor is the essential tissue for development of the embryo proper. In high-cell-density culture, the embryogenic cells proliferate, but no somatic embryos form because suspensor development is suppressed. Previously, we identified vanillyl benzyl ether (VBE) as a novel factor suppressing suspensor development from the high-cell-density conditioned medium (HCM), but the inhibitory effect of VBE was weaker than that of HCM added. Therefore, this study attempted to identify another inhibitory factor in the culture medium. Induction of somatic embryos was performed in a medium containing both VBE and a fraction of each chromatogram extracted from the culture medium. Results of the bioassay showed that a fraction had strong inhibitory activity with VBE, but weak activity without it. By physicochemical analyses of the fraction, 4-[(phenylmethoxy)methyl]phenol was identified as an inhibitory factor of larch somatic embryogenesis.
4293562|Two commercial wheat cultivars with low embryogenesis efficiencies, AC Karma and Hy417, were transformed by the bombardment of isolated scutella with two gene constructs. Three AC Karma plants (433, 436, and 437) carrying plasmid pRC62 containing a gus:npt fusion gene, and one Hy417 plant (438) carrying plasmid pBARGUS containing a bar gene and a gusA gene were recovered and characterized. Presence of transgenes in TO and T1 plants was confirmed by both PCR and Southern hybridization. Copy number of transgenes varied from one to six in these four plants. The inheritance of transgenes in the progeny was characterized. The gusA gene and its activity in AC Karma plant 436 and bar gene and its activity in Hy417 plant 438 segregated in the selfed T1 progeny in a Mendelian 3:1 ratio, but gusA gene and its activity in AC Karma plants 433 and 437 segregated in selfed T1 progeny in a non-Mendelian 1:1 ratio. The gusA activity in all three AC Karma plants was stably transmitted to selfed T2 or T3 progenies. The levels of gusA and nptII activities in nine T1 plants from AC Karma plant 437 were also determined. A GusA fluorometric assay indicated that gusA activity in the nine Tl plants increased by 2.5-7.2-fold compared with the nontransformed control, while an Nptll ELISA assay detected nptll activity only in two of the nine Tl plants, suggesting the nptll gene was silenced in the other seven Tl plants.
29736170|A morphological variant obtained from in vitro corm-derived plants of banana (Musa sp.) cv. Grande Naine (AAA) was evaluated up to harvest, and the genetic basis of variation was confirmed by the random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD). The corms formed during the multiplication phase of shoot tip-derived cultures of the cv. Grande Naine grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium enriched with 13.3 M N-benzyladenine (BA) developed numerous morphological variants after transfer to MS medium with 6.66 M BA. The variant designated as CUDBT-B1, with distinct morphological features, was further evaluated. The morphological features of CUDBT-B1 were variegated leaf, pseudostem, bracts, ovary of the male flower and fruits, reduced height, decreased lamina length and breadth, and early flowering. These features were also manifested in the second-cycle progeny of CUDBT-B1. RAPD assay showed a marker DNA band of 1650 bp, and differential band intensity between the CUDBT-B1 and normal clone. CUDBT-B1 was multiplied using shoot tip culture, and the shoots were rooted on half-strength MS medium supplemented with 2.69 M -naphthaleneacetic acid. All plantlets showed variegated leaves under field conditions.
4293460|Changes in pyrimidine metabolism were investigated in germinating white spruce somatic embryos by following the metabolic fate of
4293819|Coconut (Cocos nucifera L.) plantlets grown in vitro often grow slowly when transferred to the field possibly, due to a limited photosynthetic capacity of in vitro-cultured plantlets, apparently caused by the sucrose added to growth medium causing negative feedback for photosynthesis. In this paper, we tested the hypothesis that high exogenous sucrose will decrease ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (Rubisco) activity and photosynthesis resulting in limited ex vitro growth. Plantlets grown with high exogenous sucrose (
4293438| A protocol for in vitro propagation of Bixa orellana is described. Plants were regenerated from shoot apex and nodal explants on B5 medium supplemented with 4.9 M 2-isopentenyl adenine. The multiplication factor of shoot apex explants was higher (nine shoots per explant) than that of the nodal explants (five shoots per explant). Regardless of the position of the nodes, all the nodal explants gave similar responses. However, the size of the nodal explant was an important factor in producing multiple shoots: 0.5 cm nodal explants produced the maximum multiple shoots. Regenerated shoots from shoot apex explants rooted best on MS medium supplemented with 0.05 M -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA), whereas shoots regenerated from nodal explants needed 2.7 M NAA for rooting. Eighty per cent survival of in vivo transferred plants occurred on the best potting substrate, coco peat. Since the multiplication factor was nine per explant, this protocol can be used for commercial microprogation. However, the regeneration capacity declined after 10 subcultures. Approximately, 3350 rooted plants could be generated in 10 mo. after eight subcultures, from one shoot with a shoot apex and four nodes. 
4293697|Hydrastis canadensis L. (Goldenseal) is an endangered medicinal plant used in the treatment of many ailments, such as gastrointestinal disturbances, urinary disorders, hemorrhage, skin, mouth and eye infections, and inflammation. Commercial preparations of wild-harvested goldenseal were found to contain heavy metal contaminants including aluminum (
42568436|We developed an efficient and simple system for inducing somatic embryogenesis and regenerating plantlets from mature zygotic embryos of oil palm. Embryogenie calli were induced from mature zygotic embryos of oil palm on modified Murashige and Skoog medium with 2,4-dichloro-phenoxyacetic acid or picloram, alone or in combination with activated charcoal. The greatest frequency of embryogenie callus induction (97.5%) was obtained by culturing mature zygotic embryos on callus induction medium with M picloram and 2.5 gL- activated charcoal. Embryogenie calli proliferated on a medium with a reduced concentration of picloram. Embryogenie calli were then subcultured on a medium supplemented with 12.3 M 2-isopentenyladenine and 0.54 M naphthaleneacetic acid, with subcultures at 4-wk intervals. Somatic embryos were regenerated on a medium with Murashige and Skoog macro-and micronutrients at halfstrength concentrations supplemented with 20 g L- sucrose, 2.5 gL- activated charcoal, and 2.5 gL- Phytagel. Detailed histological analysis revealed that somatic embryogenesis followed an indirect pathway. Primary calli were observed after 4-6 wk of culture and progressed to embryogenie calli at 12 wk. Embryogenie cells exhibited dense protoplasm, a high nucleoplasmic ratio, and small starch grains. Proembryos, which seemed to have a multicellular origin, formed after 16-20 wk of culture and successive cell divisions. Differentiated somatic embryos had a haustorium, a plumule, and the first and second foliar sheaths. In differentiated embryos, the radicular protrusion was not apparent because it generally does not appear until after the first true leaves emerge.
25623006|Rice tungro disease (RTD), caused by the coinfection of rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) and rice tungro spherical virus, is one of the most important viral disease of rice in South and Southeast Asia. The disease remains one of the major threats to sustainable rice production in many countries. The lack of resistance genes to RTBVthe causal agent of tungro diseasemakes it even more difficult to manage RTD. In this review, we summarize previous and current research efforts to genetically engineer rice in order to increase the crop's resistance to tungro disease, including the use of pathogen-derived resistance and of host genes that confer RTD resistance and/or that restrict feeding by the insect vector. The prospects of developing rice cultivars with durable resistance to RTD are also discussed.
20541039|Biomass has gained prominence in the last few years as one of the most important renewable energy sources. In Brazil, a sugarcane ethanol program called ProAlcohol was designed to supply the liquid gasoline substitution and has been running for the last 30 yr. The federal government's establishment of ProAlcohol in 1975 created the grounds for the development of a sugarcane industry that currently is one of the most efficient systems for the conversion of photosynthate into different forms of energy. Improvement of industrial processes along with strong sugarcane breeding programs brought technologies that currently support a cropland of 7 million hectares of sugarcane with an average yield of 75 tons/ha. From the beginning of ProAlcohol to the present time, ethanol yield has grown from 2,500 to around 7,000 l/ha. New technologies for energy production from crushed sugarcane stalk are currently supplying 15% of the electricity needs of the country. Projections show that sugarcane could supply over 30% of Brazil's energy needs by 2020. In this review, we briefly describe some historic facts of the ethanol industry, the role of sugarcane breeding, and the prospects of sugarcane biotechnology.
25623007|An efficient organogenesis and micropropagation system was developed for in vitro plant regeneration of multiple cultivars of peanut (Arachis hypogaea). The system was used to regenerate plants from nine cultivars: Luhua no. 9, Luhua no. 13, Luhua no. 14, Fenghua no. 1, Fenghua no. 3, Fenghua no. 5, Huayu no. 23, Qinglan no. 2, and Baisha 1016. Epicotyl and embryo axis explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with 33.29-44.39 M 6-benzyladenine (BAP) and 2.15-4.30 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The highest rate of shoot formation was observed in epicotyl explants taken from 4-d-old seedlings (5.11.4 shoots per explant). Optimum shoot development was observed in explants cultured on MS medium containing 4.48 M BAP and 2.89 or 5.78 M gibberellin (GA). Well-developed shoots (3-5 cm high) formed roots after 2 wk on MS medium containing 0-2.69 M NAA. We observed that all multiple shoots formed at the site of epicotyl incision and at the upper end of each section, indicating physiological polarity of shoot formation. The maximum shoot induction rate for Luhua no. 9, Luhua no. 13, Luhua no. 14, Fenghua no. 1, Fenghua no. 3, Fenghua no. 5, Huayu no. 23, Qinglan no. 2, and Baisha 1016 was 60.0%, 83.3%, 80.7%, 91.5%, 86.0%, 59.7%, 75.0%, 67.3%, and 72.7%, respectively. This regeneration system will play a vital role in achieving the genetic improvement of Chinese peanut.
4293939|Jaborandi (Pilocarpus microphyllus) is the only known source of pilocarpine, and although this alkaloid is the only natural compound used to treat glaucoma, very little is known about its metabolism. Calluses obtained from petioles of P. microphyllus leaves were partially immersed in MS (Murashige and Skoog) liquid medium containing different pH levels (4.8, 5.8, and 6.8), nutrient concentration (MS normal basal medium concentration, absence of N, P, and K and three times normal concentrations), histidine and threonine (0.05, 0.15, and 0.75 mM), NaCl (25 and 75 mM) and polyethylene glycol (5 and 15%). Exposure to methyljasmonic acid (MJ) vapor was also investigated. The calluses were subjected to these conditions for 4 and 8d under gentle agitation in the dark. Some calluses were also kept under continuous light. Pilocarpine was identified in the liquid medium by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry. The alkaloid quantifications in the media and cells were carried out by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The calluses maintained in the dark released the greatest quantities of pilocarpine into the medium. Methyljasmonate inhibited the release of pilocarpine in the medium. High pH (6.8), absence and excess of N, excess of P, and 0.75 mM of histidine and threonine induced the highest production of the alkaloid.
29736218|The effect of cobalt chloride, salicylic acid, and silver nitrate for embryogenesis was studied in in vitro cultures of Coffea canephora. Murashige and Skoog (in Physiol. Plant. 15:473-497, 1962) medium containing 20 and 40 M either of cobalt chloride, silver nitrate, or salicylic acid supplemented with 1.1 M N benzyladenine and 2.85 M indole-3-acetic acid was used for the study. At 20 and 40 M silver nitrate treatment, 35-48% explants responded for embryogenesis, and 387 and 15327 embryos were produced from each callus mass, respectively, whereas only 5% control explants responded on medium devoid of silver nitrate, cobalt chloride, or salicylic acid. Secondary embryogenesis was observed in 70-90% of the explants, and around 100-150 embryos were produced from each explant cultured on a medium containing silver nitrate, and only a 3% response was noticed in control embryo explants. Yellow friable embryogenic calluses were obtained from the cut edges of most of the tissues grown in a medium supplemented with cobal chloride. The results clearly demonstrated that, among the tested ethylene inhibitors, silver nitrate is very effective in reprogramming the cellular machinery toward embryogenesis.
20064803|Transplanting is a necessary operation in transplant production systems. Transplanting operation is labor-intensive and automation can reduce labor costs. Plugs are actively growing young transplants with two well-defined morphologic parts: the stem-leaf portion and the root-growth medium portion. They may be grown in regularly situated cells on traylike containers. This regularity makes plugs suitable for automated transplanting operations. It is, therefore, beneficial for in vitro plant propagation systems to include plugs as intermediate products before they are delivered to the greenhouses. Flexible automation and robotics technologies have been applied to develop a robotic workcell for transplanting plugs from plug trays to growing flats. Main components of the workcell include a robot, an end-effector, and two conveyer belts for transporting trays and flats. The end-effector for extracting, holding, and planting plugs is a "sliding-needles-with-sensor" gripper. The sensor signals the robot to complete a transplanting cycle only when a plug is properly held by the gripper. Systems analysis and computer simulation were conducted to study factors affecting workability and productivity of various workcell designs. These factors included: dimensions and kinematics of the robot and its peripheral equipment, layout and materials flow, fullness of plug trays, and successful extraction rate of plugs. The analysis also indicated that machine vision systems could add valuable capabilities to the workcell, such as robot guidance and plug quality evaluation. Engineering economic analysis was performed to investigate the interaction of workcell technical feasibility and economic viability.
40663761|We previously introduced the bar gene, along with chitinase and AP24 genes, into the pineapple genome.The present report focuses on the evaluation of the first vegetative generation of a transgenic clone containing these genes. Three materials were compared: macropropagated controls (non-transformed), micropropagated controls (nontransformed), and micropropagated transformed plants.From each group, 50% of the plants were sprayed with FINALE  3 mo after the experiment initiation. The characterization was performed after 1 yr of field growth.FINALE  killed all non-transgenic plants. Plants that survived the herbicide application showed 2 n = 50 chromosomes in their roots after 1 yr in the field. Micropropagated transformed plants sprayed with FINALE  did not show phenotype differences from micropropagated transformed plants not sprayed with the herbicide. Between the micropropagated transformed plants sprayed with FINALE and the micropropagated control plants, the following differences were observed: modifications in levels of cell wall-linked, free and total phenolics, and total proteins.Moreover, changes of the fruit mass without crown were also recorded. Between the micropropagated transformed plants sprayed with FINALE  and the macropropagated control plants, levels of chlorophyll b, total chlorophyll pigments, and proteins were different. Furthermore, activities of phenylalanine ammonia-lyase, Superoxide dismutase, and glutamine synthetase were dissimilar. The plant height and diameter, and the crown height were also different. Until now, we have evaluated transformed pineapple plants during hardening and field growth.Although some unexpected variations were recorded, we believe they are not relevant enough to justify rejection of transgenesis as an important tool for pineapple genetic improvement.
20461725|For the mass production of chestnut trees with selected, hybrid, or genetically engineered genotypes, one potentially desirable propagation strategy is based on somatic embryogenesis. Although methods exist for the initiation of embryogenic cultures of Castanea sativa from immature zygotic embryos or leaf explants, the embryos produced have had low rates of conversion into plantlets. This study explored the possible benefits for somatic embryos that have already undergone maturation and cold treatments, of (a) partial slow or fast desiccation, and (b) of the addition of plant growth regulators or glutamine to the germination medium. Germination response was evaluated in terms of both conversions to plantlets and through embryos developing only shoots (shoot germination) that could be rooted following the micropropagation protocols developed for chestnut. Two or 3 wk slow desiccation in sealed empty Petri dishes resulted in a slight reduction in water content that nevertheless increased total potential plant recovery, shoot length, and the number of leaves per plantlet. However, best results were achieved by 2 h fast drying in a laminar flow hood, which reduced embryo moisture content to 57-58% and enhanced the potential plant recovery and quality of regenerated plantlets. Plant yield was also promoted by addition of 0.44 M benzyladenine and 200-438 mg/l of glutamine to the germination medium, and plantlet quality (as evidenced by root, shoot, and leaf growth) by the further addition of 0.49 M indole-3-butyric acid.
40663780|In vitro regeneration of black nightshade (Solatium nigrum L.) plants was achieved through callusmediated shoot organognesis followed by 30 d indoor ex vitro adaptation to nutritional stress under environmental ambience and thereafter 6-d outdoor acclimatization in pots prior to field establishment. Relevant physiological parameters including pigment content, chlorophyll a fluorescence, net photosynthetic rate (P N ), transpiration rate (E), and stomatal conductance (g s ) of in vitro-regenerated plants were investigated during the course of ex vitro adaptation. During the first 4 d of indoor transplantation to potting substrate, there was a marginal reduction in the leaf chlorophyll and carotenoid contents but P N and E were strongly reduced. The stomatal conductance and E/P N ratio were significantly higher in plants up to 20 d of indoor adaptation than those of comparable age grown naturally from seeds. The shape of the OJIP fluorescence transient varied significantly with acclimatization, and the maximum change was observed at 2.0 ms. The 2.0 ms variable fluorescence (Vj), 30 ms relative fluorescence (M), photon trapping probability (TR/Abs), and photosystem II (PSII) trapping rate (TR/RC) showed initial disturbance and subsequent stabilization during 30 d of indoor acclimatization. Energy dissipation (DI/RC) and electron transport probability (ET/TR) showed an initial phase of increase during the 4 d after plants were transplanted outdoors. During the 6-d outdoor acclimatization after transfer of plants to soil, no significant change in total chlorophylls and carotenoids, E, and g s were observed, but P N improved after reduction on the first d. The OJIP-derived parameters experienced change on the first d but were stabilized quickly thereafter. There was no significant difference between outdoor acclimatized plants and those of the seed-grown plants of comparable age with respect to photosynthetic and fluorescence parameters. Direct transfer of plants without indoor acclimatization, however, showed a completely different trend with respect to P N , E, and OJIP fluorescence transients. The bearing of this study on optimizing micropropagation is discussed.
4293273| Nodal segments as well as shoot tips and apical meristems of 2-yr-old "mat" plants (Ilex paraguariensis St. Hil.) were cultured in vitro to establish micropropagation systems. Maximum shoot regeneration was achieved when nodal segments were cultured with 1/4 Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 3% sucrose. We induced roots to differentiate by transferring the regenerated shoots onto the same medium, solidified with 2.5 g Phytagel per l and supplemented with indole-3-butyric acid (7.4 M) and finally transferring shoots to 1/4 MS medium with 3% sucrose and lacking growth regulators. Plants were successfully established in soil. 
4293630|Guar (Cyamopsis tetragonoloba L. Taub) is a drought-tolerant multipurpose cash crop. A rapid regeneration system has been developed for four Indian guar genotypes. Investigations were carried out to assess the effect of different growth regulators and their combinations on a variety of explants such as the embryo, cotyledons, and cotyledonary nodes for shoot morphogenesis. It was established that Murashige and Skoog's culture medium containing 6-benzylaminopurine
40981329|The present study investigated the effect of nitrogen source (NH; NO) at different concentrations on the accumulation of biomass and secondary metabolites in adventitious root cultures of Hypericum perforatum L. Cultures were initiated in shake flasks by using half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with B5 vitamins, 1.0 mg l indole-3-butyric acid, 0.1 mg l kinetin, 3% (w/v) sucrose, and different ratios of ammonium and nitrate (0:30, 5:25, 10:20, 15:15, 20:10, 25:5, and 30:0 mM, using NHCl and KNO). The cultures were maintained in darkness. The medium supplemented with 5:25 (mM) NH/NO resulted in the optimum accumulation of biomass and total phenols and flavonoids. The antioxidant potential of a methanolic extract, measured as the 1, 1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl and 2, 2-azino-bis-(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) radical scavenging activities, of H. perforatum adventitious roots showed that antioxidant activity was high from root extracts that were grown on higher concentrations of NO nitrogen (15, 20, and 25 mM). Further, assessment of hydrogen peroxide (HO) and malondialdehyde content of the root extracts revealed that cultures supplemented with higher levels of NO nitrogen (15-30 mM) were under oxidative stress, which boosted the levels of secondary metabolites in the adventitious roots. These results suggest that optimal adventitious root biomass could be achieved with the supplementation of cultures with 5:25 ratios of MS nitrogen sources.
4293719|For the first time, regenerated plantlets were obtained from immature zygotic embryos of mango (Mangifera indica L.) through direct somatic embryogenesis. Pro-embryogenic mass (PEM)-like structures, which are differentiated as clusters of globular structures, were easily induced directly from the abaxial side of cotyledons from immature fruits, 2.0-3.5 cm diameter by a 2-wk culture period on a modified Murashige and Skoog medium with
4293334|Embryogenic cell lines of Gladiolus were bombarded with the bar-uidA fusion gene under the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter (pDM327) or cobombarded with uidA under the CaMV 35S promoter (pBCG) and bar under the CaMV 35S promoter (pDM307). Over 500 cell lines were isolated for either the fusion gene or cobombarded cells following selection on Murashige and Skoog's medium supplemented with
23326883|Withania somnifera, commonly known as ashwagandha or Indian ginseng, is a valuable medicinal plant, synthesizing a wide array of pharmacologically active secondary metabolites known as withanolides. In this study, we investigated variation among 54 regenerated plants attained through indirect organogenesis from leaf explants. Organogenic calli were induced on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 2 mgl -1 kinetin and 1 mgl -1 indole-3-butyric acid. High-performance liquid chromatography was used for quantitative determination of the major withanolides in the somaclones. One somaclone (WS-R-1) showed significantly higher accumulation of 12-deoxywithastramonolide (WS-12D; 0.516%) compared to the explant donor mother plant (0.002%). The incidence of somaclonal variation at the cytological level was investigated by studying mitosis and meiosis in relation to chromosome number and structural organization. There were no alterations in chromosome phenotypes, somatic chromosome count, or meiotic behavior. Fidelity at genomic level was evaluated by random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analyses, which revealed multiple genetic polymorphisms between the WS-12D over-producing somaclone and the explant donor mother plant. This study demonstrates the capability of inducing chemotypic variability for the development of high-yielding clones due to molecular instability in W. somnifera using an in vitro approach.
4293930| Most published protocols necessitate different media formulations for multistep somatic embryogenesis. This study aims to establish a simple but effective formulation for the regeneration of plantlets of the pharmaceutically active Boesenbergia rotunda (L.) Mansf. Kulturpfl, formerly Boesenbergia/Kaempferia pandurata (Schult), to ensure a superior and consistent supply of materials for commercialization purposes. In this study, a single-medium formulation of Murashige and Skoog (MS) supplemented with 13.54 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) was found to be the only medium out of eight formulations to promote the complete somatic embryogenesis process for the culture of B. rotunda (L.). Callus cultures were initiated from a total of 280 explants of rhizome meristem. The percentage of cultures forming embryogenic callus was 23.3  4.3% on this MS medium augmented by 13.54 M 2,4-D. The best plantlet regeneration rate was attained from the first subcultured callus with a mean of 6.6  0.1 plantlets per 1cm diameter aggregate of callus. Somatic embryogenesis characteristic of monocots was evident from histological studies. The regenerated plantlets have been successfully established in soil. 
20171606| 3-Methyleneoxindole (MO), a metabolite of the plant auxin indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), was more active than IAA in supporting Stage II and III micropropagation of several plant species. In Stage II micropropagation, characterized by the rapid numerical increase of shoots, the optimal IAA concentration was 0.01 mM compared to 0.1 nM MO for most plants. In Stage III micropropagation where auxin is required for the rhizogenic response, 0.1 M MO was more effective than 0.01 mM IAA. Inhibition analysis of plant growth with chlorogenic acid (CGA) suggested an obligatory role for MO in IAA-mediated auxin reactions: CGA, which blocks the enzymatic oxidation of IAA to MO, in vivo, completely abolished IAA's ability to support the growth of explants during micropropagation. In contrast, CGA did not inhibit the auxin activity of MO, the product of the blocked reaction. The growth rate and rooting efficiency of tobacco propagules in Stage III medium was improved substantially if these were first exposed to a high concentration of MO and subsequently transferred to media containing low or no MO. 
4293303| Here we present a routine and efficient protocol for year-round production of fertile transgenic maize plants. Type II callus derived from maize Hi II immature zygotic embryos was transformed using the PDS 1000/He biolistic gun and selected on bialaphos. In an effort to improve the transformation protocol, the effects of gold particle size and callus morphology on transformation efficiency were investigated. Reducing gold particle size from 1.0 mm or 0.6 mm resulted in a significant increase in the rate of recovery of bialaphos-resistant clones from Type II callus. The average transformation efficiency of pre-embryogenic, early embryogenic and late embryogenic callus did not vary significantly. Rates of transformation, regeneration and fertility achieved for Type II callus are summarized and compared to those achieved for greenhouse- and field-derived immature zygotic embryos. 
40981328|This report demonstrates the elicitation effect on growth and stilbene accumulation in cell cultures of Cayratia trifolia (Vitaceae) by an extract of the angiosperm parasite Cuscuta reflexa and salicylic acid in combination with sucrose feeding. Cell cultures of C. trifolia, a tropical liana, were maintained in liquid Murashige and Skoog's basal medium containing 0.25 mg l naphthalene acetic acid, 0.2 mg l kinetin with 3% sucrose and 250 mg l casein hydrolysate. The cells treated with Cuscuta elicitor showed increased polyphenol oxidase activity with increasing concentration of the elicitor, while total phenol content remained almost unchanged. Enhanced yield of stilbenes (~8-fold) was recorded in the cells treated with 200 mg l Cuscuta elicitor for 7 d. Optimum accumulation of stilbenes with a nonsignificant decrease in cell growth as compared with control was recorded with the addition of 3% sucrose on the seventh day of cell culture. Addition of 3% sucrose with salicylic acid at 500 M and Cuscuta extract at 200 mg l on the seventh day enhanced total stilbene yield up to 50.1 mg l which was ~14-fold higher than in content increased ~ 200-fold in such cultures.
20064930|Micropropagation has the potential to quickly introduce selected genotypes of adult Eucalyptus globulus clones and it is now widely used in Portugal as a part of genetic improvement programs. Several clones have been established and multiplied in vitro. The different clones have individual requirements for successful rooting. Rejuvenation was achieved at different periods after culture initiation for the different clones. Subculturing preceding rooting in multiplication medium supplemented with riboflavin and cholene chloride allowed the increase of rooting ability for several clones tested. Removal of boron from the rooting medium increased rooting by 10%. Indolebutyric acid (IBA) dipping before transfer to the rooting medium resulted in a rooting percentage of 80-95% for the best clones tested. Acclimatization was performed without difficulties (90-95% success) and the rooted plants were either planted directly or used as mother plants for further cutting production, depending on the needs. The results described in this paper increase the commercial feasibility of the micropropagation system for E. globulus.
4293760|The effect of ventilation during the multiplication stage on the development of propagules from different clones of jojoba [Simmondsia chinensis (Link) Schneider] was investigated. Variation in the response to ventilation was due to genotype, the extent of ventilation, and to the period of exposure (transfer number). With intermediate ventilation treatments, propagules elongated to a greater extent and produced more dry biomass than propagules grown without ventilation. In the highest ventilation treatment, however, growth parameters were negatively affected. More importantly, propagules grown with moderate ventilation produced more plant material suitable for further multiplication and for the elongation stage than those grown in sealed tubes - the vessels used in our original micropropagation system. In five of the seven clones studied, growth and multiplication rate were decreased by the highest ventilation treatment. Propagules from the second and third multiplication transfers into ventilated vessels became more sensitive to high ventilation. Ambient water loss was slower in propagules produced under ventilation, probably due to smaller stomatal apertures. As a result of improved growth and decreased hyperhydricity by ventilation, the micropropagation protocol should be modified to include Magenta boxes equipped with vented lids as the preferred growing vessels.
4293012|Procedures have been developed for the initiation and long-term maintenance of embryogenic suspension cultures of pickling cucumber (Cucumis sativus) cultivar Endeavor and for the regeneration of normal plantlets. Embryogenic calluses from petiole explants plated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 6-benzylaminopurine (BA), both at 5  M, were used to initiate the embryogenic suspension cultures. Among various growth regulator combinations evaluated for initiation and maintenance of these suspension cultures, only MS medium with 2,4-D and BA, both at 1  M, produced cultures that were yellow, friable, and still regenerable after repeated subculture (every two wk) over a 3- to 15-mo. period. The effects of various concentrations of auxin and cytokinin in the plating medium, the addition of AgNO
41496439|Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, employing direct shoot organogenesis, allows for mature transgenic plants to be obtained quickly (34 mo). In this study, peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) cultivars Florida-07, Georgia Green, Georgia Brown, New Mexico Valencia A, and VC-2 were selected to test their shoot induction response for use in future transformation experiments. Two types of cotyledon expiants were examined, those that previously had an attached embryo axis upon cotyledon separation (explant A) and those that were embryo axis-free upon separation (explant B) Explants were placed onto a shoot induction medium with N-benzyladenine concentrations ranging from 10-80 m for Florida-07, Georgia Green, and VC-2; 10-20 m for Georgia Brown; and 10-640 m for New Mexico Valencia A. Following a 4-wk culture period, expiants were visually rated based on a scale of 1-4, where 1 indicated slight greening, but no growth, and 4 indicated greening, adventitious bud formation, as well as small leaf expansion. A difference in shoot induction was observed for the cotyledon expiants examined (P>t=<0.0001). Explant A had greater shoot induction with a visual rating of 1.8  0.1; expiant had a rating of 1.6  0.1 (P>t-<0.0001). Additionally, cultivars responded to the culture conditions differently (cultivar N-benzyladenine interaction). Georgia Green on 10 M N-benzyladenine produced the most shoot buds (24.6%) and the highest visual rating (2.1), followed by VC-2 on 10 M N-benzyladenine (22.1%, 1.8), New Mexico Valencia A on 640 M N -benzyladenine (21.4%, 1.8), Georgia Brown on 80 M N -benzyladenine (9.0%, 1.7), and Florida-07 on 40 M N -benzyladenine (7.1%, 1.8). Of the tested varieties, Georgia Green, New Mexico Valencia A, and VC-2 were best suited for future transformation experiments based on their shoot bud production.
4293396|This investigation disclosed that evaluation of tissue culture parameters of slowly developing species (e.g. Garcinia mangostana) requires monitoring of treatments through two or more successive, relatively long passages. Two 8-wk passages were necessary to observe differences in phytohormone effects. Photoperiod and temperature effects were not clearly evident until tissues had been cultured through three passages; the optimal photoperiod and temperature for shoot proliferation could not be established until after the fifth passage. Our investigation revealed that no auxin supplementation was necessary for bud primordium differentiation in cotyledon explants or proliferation of regenerated shoots. The optimum
20171635| Nothapodytes foetida (Wight) is a small evergreen tree and the extract from this tree is used to make the antileukaemia and antitumoural compound camptothecin. Due to exploitation of this resource, efficient methods for rapid propagation of N. foetida are highly desirable. Multiple shoots were induced on hypocotyl segments of 20-25-d-old seedlings of N. foetida cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with different concentrations and combinations of cytokinins. The highest shoot multiplication was achieved on MS medium containing thidiazuron (TDZ) at the concentration of 2.2 M. Inhibition of shoot elongation by TDZ was overcome by transferring shoot cultures to medium containing 2.2 M benzylaminopurine which produced healthy shoots after three additional subcultures. The production of shoots was further promoted by repeated subculturing of original explants on fresh multiplication medium after each harvesting of the newly formed shoots. In vitro rooting was best induced (87%) in shoots excised from proliferated shoot cultures on one-fourth MS medium augmented with 5.7 M indole-3-acetic acid and 2.4 M indolebutryic acid (IBA). In vitro-developed shoots were also rooted ex vitro by dipping in 49 M IBA for 10 min. In vitro- and ex vitro-rooted plants were successfully acclimatized and established in greenhouse conditions. 
4293804| Cupressus macrocarpa and C. arizonica were examined for callus and cell culture production in vitro. Both species produced callus on agar-solidified MSCY medium supplemented with vitamins, antioxidants, 0.14 M kinetin (KIN), and 10 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Suspension cultures of both species were established in liquid MSCY medium. Seiridin (SE) and iso-seiridin (ISE), two phytotoxic butenolides produced by Seiridium cardinale, S. cupressi, and S. unicorne, the causal agents of many canker diseases of cypress, were tested on callus or cell suspension cultures. In the medium without other plant growth regulators (PGR), SE promoted cell proliferation of cypress better than ISE, for callus initiation, callus maintenance, and cell suspension cultures. The growth rates of cypress callus tissues and suspension cultures of both cypress species on media containing 50-150 M SE or ISE were measured. At concentrations of 50 M and higher, growth rates increased exponentially with the SE concentration. A comparison with KIN and 2,4-D indicated that 50 M SE promoted growth of callus tissues and cell suspension cultures more than 100 M ISE. SE can also interact with, or counteract, KIN and 2,4-D. It was demonstrated that SE could replace KIN in the medium for C. arizonica. SE could be involved in cell enlargement and proliferation processes. The less susceptible cypress species (C. arizonica) had a higher content of terpenoids than that of the more susceptible species (C. macrocarpa). SE could be a useful tool as a phytohormonal-like regulator to manipulate physiological changes at the cellular level and as an elicitor of sensitivity or tolerance of cypress germplasm to the phytotoxin. 
20461753|Berberis buxifolia Lam., known as "Calafate", is a plant native to Argentina that exhibits antimicrobial activity. This biological activity is attributed to the isoquinoline alkaloid berberine. The aim of this research was to test the antimicrobial properties of different extracts of this species, taking berberine as the reference molecule, and to examine if the expression of bacterial multidrug resistance (MDR) efflux pumps could be responsible for possible resistance mechanisms. To this end, a wild-type and a mutant strain of Staphylococcus aureus with a defective MDR efflux pump were used and the minimum inhibitory concentrations of the extracts were determined. The studies were carried out with infusions of in vivo shoots and "Calafate" commercial tea, as well as with the media derived from shoot cultures incubated with different plant growth regulators (thidiazuron, picloram, and jasmonic acid). As far as antimicrobial activity is concerned, all the extracts tested were significantly more effective than berberine standard. "Calafate" commercial tea and shoot tea had inhibitory concentrations similar to the one observed for ampicillin standard. The media from the shoot cultures, however, were significantly more effective than all the others, particularly the one derived from jasmonic acid, suggesting the presence of compounds that could be acting synergistically with berberine. There were no differences in antimicrobial activity against the wild-type and the mutant S. aureus; no definite conclusions could be drawn concerning the relationship between MDR pumps and possible pathogen resistance to extracts of B. buxifolia.
4293304|An in vitro propagation system was developed for Echinacea purpurea L. (purple coneflower), a medicinal plant commonly used in the treatment of colds, flu and related ailments. Echinacea seeds were found to be contaminated with systemic fungi and therefore an optimized minimal concentration of Plant Preservation Mixture (PPM) was incorporated in the seed germination medium to recover sterile seedlings. Regeneration was induced on petiole explants from 2-month-old sterile seedlings cultured on medium supplemented with benzylaminopurine (BAP) or thidiazuron (TDZ) in combination with indoleacetic acid (IAA). Two distinct forms of regeneration were identified in cultured petiole explants with histological and morphological observations, viz. the direct formation of somatic embryos on the epidermis and the de novo development of shoots from callus tissues formed in subepidermal cell layers. The results of this study have established a micropropagation system for E. purpurea that will provide sterile plant material for further investigations into medicinally active biochemicals and may facilitate mass production of high-quality E. purpurea plants for the commercial market.
4293580| 'Mendocino' oregano (Origanum vulgare x applii) cultivated in Argentina has been subject to progressive yield loss as a consequence of continuous vegetative propagation. A method of reducing damage to the shoot tip during sterilization procedures for micropropagation is proposed. Single shoot cuttings are less sensitive to disinfecting substances than green tips. Meristems taken from young plantlets that grew in vitro produced less oxidation during the culture than those dissected immediately after disinfecting from plants grown in the field. This work describes the effects of the growth regulators benzyladenine (BA) and naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) at various concentrations and combinations on micropropagation of O. vulgare x applii. Treatment with 0.28 M BA and 0.53 M NAA gave greatest efficiency (mean: 22.2 nodes per plantlet). After 60 d 100% of rooted plantlets could be formed per explant under optimum conditions. 
23016698|A protocol for in vitro propagation of the wild germander (Teucrium polium L.) was developed. In vitro plants were developed from ex vitro axillary buds. Then, shoot tips were excised and established on Murashige and Skoog medium. Proliferation of shoots was tested with different levels of 6-furfurylaminopurin, 6-benzyladenine, or thiadiazuron. The highest proliferation of T. polium was obtained when 6-benzyladenine and 6-furfurylaminopurin were used at 2.0 and 1.6 mg 1, respectively. Thiadiazuron gave the lowest response for shoot proliferation. Rooting was experimented at different levels of Indol-3-butric acid, Indol-3-acetic acid, or 1-naphthaleneacetic acid. 1-Naphthaleneacetic was the only growth regulator which promoted root induction. Rooted plants were acclimatized successfully with 75% survival and grown in the greenhouse. In vitro- and in vivo-grown plants were analyzed for essential oil production. In vitro-grown T. polium on MS medium supplemented with 6-benzyladenine and 1-naphthaleneacetic gave higher oil yield than that grown on hormone-free Murashige and Skoog medium. In vivo (wild)-grown T. polium produced different oil yield when collected in different months (April and October). -caryophyllene, used as a marker compound in the essential oil, was identified and quantified by gas chromatography (GC) analysis. Gas chromatography/mass (GC-MS) spectrometry analysis was also used to identify other components of in vitro cultures and to compare with in vivo-grown plants.
42568794|Somatic embryogenesis was induced from stamen filaments and an embryogenic suspension culture was established in the grapevine cultivar Menca using thidiazuron and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Four combinations of each growth regulator were assessed for somatic embryo induction in a basal medium containing Nitsch and Nitsch salts and Murashige and Skoog vitamins, and an embryogenic suspension was established in liquid medium containing 1 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid plus 4.5 M thidiazuron. By using thidiazuron instead of benzyladenine, induction rates were improved over those previously reported for this cultivar and were relatively high compared with previous results in other cultivars. Three combinations of indole-3-acetic acid and benzyladenine and two inoculum levels were tested in a differentiation medium containing activated charcoal. The size of the inoculum affected the developmental stage of the somatic embryos, whereas the type of growth regulator did not. Both the germination and plant conversion rates were high (87.8% and 88.2%, respectively). An analysis of plant ploidy levels by flow cytometry revealed that 5.6% of the somatic embryo-derived plants were tetraploid. The mean nuclear DNA content of the diploid somatic embryo-derived plants was, on average, 6.7% lower than that of diploid field-grown plants, indicating that this protocol produces low levels of somaclonal variation. The results obtained here indicate that such variations in grapevine can occur both through changes in the ploidy level and by loss of genetic material during somatic embryogenesis.
4293468|Phytoremediation, or the use of plants for removal and detoxification of environmental pollutants, has garnered great attention in recent years. This heightened interest is both scientifically, due the fascinating processes utilized by plants for tolerance and removal of harmful compounds, and commercially, as plants represent a more environmentally compatible and less expensive method of site remediation compared to standard approaches. The majority of phytoremediation studies have been with naturally occurring plant species after empirical discovery of their exceptional abilities for such applications. This has led to a growing body of literature and wider acceptance for plants in many aspects of environmental rehabilitation. However, this has occurred with little understanding of their basic biological mechanisms of action or investigation of alternative strategies for enhancing the capabilities of these extraordinary plants. Better understanding of plant physiology, biochemistry and molecular biology in response to specific contaminants is critical for optimization and advancement of phytoremediation. By applying the tools of biotechnology, the potential for plants as an aggressive method of environmental decontamination may be realized. This paper will serve as an introduction to the first Symposium assembled exclusively to review the use of molecular genetic and biotechnological methods for improvement of plants for phytoremediation. After a brief review of the other invited speakers' works (with more extensive papers following), the pioneering work using bacterial genes expressed in plants for removal of mercurial compounds will be surveyed.
42568819|In this study, we compared the evolution of morphological and agronomical characteristics of coconut (Cocos nucifera L.) palms produced from in vitro cultured embryos and from seeds over an 8-yr period. At the end of the second year after planting, the height and root collar diameter of plants originating from in vitro cultured embryos were significantly lower than those originating from seeds. However, palms from both categories had the same number of leaves. When palms originating from in vitro plantlets and from seeds were observed later in their development, they were similar for most morphological characteristics measured, except for minor differences in inflorescence morphology, which were still present 8 yr after planting. The flowering pattern, bunch, and fruit production were similar between the two categories of palms. These results indicate that in vitro culture of zygotic embryos does not adversely affect further development of palms in natural conditions.
23321158|A very rapid and efficient regeneration method of Vigna mungo L. has been established using liquid culture. A highly regenerable explant, viz., young multiple shoots obtained by germinating the seeds in 2 mg l-1 (8.9 M) N6-benzyladenine-supplemented Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium, was used as a source of tissue to initiate the liquid culture. The liquid medium consisted of half-strength B5 or MS salts supplemented with MS organics, -naphthaleneacetic acid (0.1 mg l-1, 0.54 M) and N6-benzyladenine (0.5 mg l-1, 2.2 M). Transferring the growing tissues to fresh medium every third day resulted in ca. 142% increase in the number of shoot buds produced after 24 d. Shoot buds elongated on one-third-strength MS (MS1/3) semisolid medium and plantlets were obtained by transferring the shoots onto MS1/3 semisolid medium supplemented with indolebutyric acid (1 mg l-1, 4.9 M).
4293532|In vitro-cultured cotyledon explants of eggplant (Solanum melongena L.) are capable of producing somatic embryos or shoots, depending on which growth regulators are exogenously applied (auxins versus cytokinins). Rapidly growing suspension cultures were established to model these alternative morphogenetic processes. Clear differences in DNA methylation and gene expression patterns could be detected when suspension cultures grown under different growth regulator regimes were compared by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) or Differential Display analyses. Some of the random genomic clones showing methylation pattern differences, as well as some differentially expressed transcripts were analyzed in detail. One of the genomic clones, SMG56, proved to be the first identified 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) synthase gene in eggplant. From 15 cloned Differential Display fragments two somatic embryogenesis (SME39, SME50) and one organogenesis (SME88) related transcripts were identified.
4293551|The temporary immersion bioreactor has been found to be an important tool for sugarcane micropropagation, allowing higher shoot formation rates and cost reduction. This research was conducted to demonstrate the agricultural value of temporary immersion bioreactor-derived sugarcane plants. The experiment was carried out for about 2 yr to study the field performance of these plants. Two control treatments were also evaluated representing the conventional forms of micro- and macropropagation. Growth of sugarcane stools, first ratoon and the use of micropropagated plants for macropropagation were recorded. Some botanical and chemical characteristics were evaluated. Differences among propagation systems were only found in the first 6 mo. of field growth, regarding the stem length and diameter. Such differences disappeared with the course of the experiment.
4293643|A new utilization of the biolistic gun was developed for the direct introduction of nitrogen-fixing bacteria (Azotobacter vinelandii) into strawberry (Fragaria x ananassa) tissues. This was the first case of using living bacteria as microprojectiles for the bombardment of plant tissues. Bacterial cells, adhered to tungsten particles, were accelerated by a nitrogen-powered device, and delivered into the target leaves and regenerating shoot meristems. The presence of bacteria in the developing strawberry callus tissues and regenerating plants was detected by microscopy, acetylene reduction assay, and selective polymerase chain reaction. Practically, the elaborated method proved to be suitable for the establishment of artificial intercellular associations between nitrogen-fixing bacteria and higher plants.
4293567|Acmella radicans var. radicans propagation was established in vitro. This plant belongs to the Asteraceae from which some species are known for their insecticide, fungicide and antibacterial activity. The complete Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium was the best in assisting seed germination. In order to obtain shoots in vitro, a complete MS medium and half-strength MS medium were assayed with explants from leaves, nodes, and internodes. The best medium for shoot production was the half-strength MS medium with no addition of plant growth regulators, and the highest shoot propagation was from single-node explants. Regeneration of roots on shoot explants in the medium was obtained without the addition of growth regulators. Of the plantlets that were acclimated, 90% of them were obtained from rooted shoots with completely expanded leaves. The alkamide content was evaluated for each tissue and the higher concentration was observed in flower heads. The main alkamides present in the leaves and the flower heads were N-(2-phenylethyl)-2Z,4E-octadienamide and 3-phenyl-N-(2-phenylethyl)-2-propenamide. This study describes the methodology for the establishment and propagation of Acmella radicans in vitro and the evaluation of different tissue alkamide contents in vitro and in the field.
20461691|Centipedegrass (Eremochloa ophiuroides [Munro] Hack.) is an important warm-season turfgrass and pasture grass. To explore the potential use of biotechnical tools in breeding of centipedegrass, we established an efficient plant regeneration system for this species. Four basal media and 24 combinations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 6-benzyladenine (BAP) were examined for their effects on callus induction from mature seed explants. Twenty combinations of naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and BAP were tested for their effect on plant regeneration. Results indicated that Murashige and Skoog basal medium supplemented with 4.5 mg l 2,4-D and 1 mg l BAP was the best medium for callus induction, while the combination of 2 mg l BAP and 1 mg l NAA induced the highest rate of regeneration and development of shoots and roots. This work provides a basis for the breeding of centipedegrass through somaclonal variation and genetic transformation.
20171616|The development of efficient tissue culture systems for cacao holds the potential to contribute to the improvement of this tropical crop by providing a rapid and efficient vegetative propagation system for multiplication of elite genotypes. It may also find application in facilitation of germplasm movement across quarantine borders, enhancement of germplasm conservation via cryo-preservation, and development of genetic transformation systems. Somatic embryogenesis using floral tissue explants was previously the only tissue culture procedure for regeneration of cacao. We report the development of a secondary embryogenesis system utilizing primary somatic embryo cotyledon explants, which results in up to a 30-fold increase in somatic embryo production compared to primary somatic embryogenesis. The influence of genotype on the efficiency of the system was evaluated. To understand the cellular origins and developmental pathways operative in this system, we investigated the morphological changes occurring over time using light and scanning electron microscopy. While primary embryos arise from clusters of cells forming embryonic nodules, secondary embryos arise predominantly from the division of single cells, in a pathway reminiscent of zygotic embryogenesis. These results have important significance to the application of tissue culture to cacao improvement programs.
4293881| The ability to non-destructively visualize transient and stable gene expression has made green fluorescent protein (GFP) a most efficient reporter gene for routine plant transformation studies. We have assessed two fluorescent protein mutants, enhanced GFP (EGFP) and enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP), under the control of the CaMV35S promoter, for their transient expression efficiencies after particle bombardment of embryogenic cultures of the peanut cultivar, Georgia Green. A third construct (p524EGFP.1) that expressed EGFP from a double 35S promoter with an AMV enhancer sequence also was compared. The brightest and most dense fluorescent signals observed during transient expression were from p524EGFP.1 and EYFP. Optimized bombardment conditions consisted of 0.6 m diameter gold particles, 12 410 kPa bombardment pressure, 95 kPa vacuum pressure, and pretreatment with 0.4 M mannitol. Bombardments with p524EGFP.1 produced tissue sectors expressing GFP that could be visually selected under the fluorescence microscope over multiple subcultures. Embryogenic lines selected for GFP expression initially may have been chimeric since quantitative analysis of expression sometimes showed an increase when GFP-expressing lines, that also contained a hygromycin-resistance gene, subsequently were cultured on hygromycin. Transformed peanut plants expressing GFP were obtained from lines selected either visually or on hygromycin. Integration of the gfp gene in the genomic DNA of regenerated plants was confirmed by Southern blot hybridization and transmission to progeny. 
4293458|An efficient and simple plant regeneration system via organogenesis from leaf segments of persimmon (Diospyros kaki Thunb.) cultivars 'Fuyu' and 'Nishimurawase' has been developed. The regeneration capacity was influenced by the culture vessels, gelling agents, plant growth regulators, and light conditions. Leaf explants taken from in vitro shoots were cultured on a modified Murashige and Skoog medium (MS1/2N) for 16 wk without transfer to fresh medium. Adventitious shoots appeared after 4 and 8 wk in culture of 'Nishimurawase' and 'Fuyu' tissues, respectively. The culture of leaf explants in Erlenmeyer flasks with medium containing
4293336|Cell masses of Araucaria angustifolia cultured in LP liquid medium showed different uptake and utilization patterns for different sugars. Fructose was slowly utilized by cell growth during the lag phase. After this lag period, fructose concentration decreased quickly, corresponding to the start of linear growth. Glucose rapidly decreased following fructose depletion. The level of extracellular proteins in the culture medium increased for the first 5 d after cell inoculation, during the transition from the lag phase to the high-growth phase. The pH of the medium decreased through the first half of the culture period (4.94) and increased (5.6) thereafter. Proembryos originated from a single cell, without a cleavage process. Suspensor cells and proembryonal groups developed independently. Only embryogenic cells divided and formed a suspensor or a proembryo group, which differentiated further along the longitudinal axis. The pathway observed for proembryo formation in Araucaria differs from the model proposed for other conifers, which show cleavage polyembryony.
40981342|Acanthostachys strobilacea (Schult, f.) Klotzsch is an ornamental species of Bromeliaceae that may show an elongated stem when cultivated in vitro. This work reports a micropropagation protocol for A. strobilacea using nodal segments. Seeds were placed in Murashige and Skoog's medium with macronutrients diluted to 1/5. Nodal segments isolated from the stems of in vitro elongated plants were subcultured in the same medium and kept in different light intensities (14, 41, and 50 molms) or continuous darkness. Another group of nodes was subcultured according to the position in the mother seedling. The plants that showed the most stem elongation were those that were cultured in 14 molms or that came from isolated nodal segments in the median and basal regions of the mother plant. After 2 mo, all of the plants originating from the development of lateral buds were transferred to a greenhouse. Only those that were not elongated survived ex vitro and flowered after 1 yr.
4293139|Genetic control of differentiation processes in radish was studied in vitro on the level of morphogenic capacities of explants. We have shown that when cultured on hormone-free MS medium (Murashige and Skoog, 1962), isolated radish cotyledons can produce callus and/or roots. At the same time, excised seedling apices placed on MS medium supplied with exogenous cytokinin can form multiple shoots or crop-root-like structures. In our model, the ability of explants to undergo the above morphogenic events in culture under certain in vitro conditions was examined as a genetic marker. As forms tested, highly inbred radish lines maintained by tight inbreeding for 28-34 generations were used. We have shown that ability of excised cotyledons to produce callus is controlled by a single gene, while their root-producing capacity is under di-genic control with some additional influence of the cytoplasm. Analysis of inheritance of seedling apex capacity to produce crop-root-like structures in response to exogenous cytokinin led us to propose the interaction of three genes in control of this trait.
41432444|North American ginseng (NAG) (Panax quinquefolius L.) is a medicinally important plant with multiple uses in the natural health product industry. As seed propagation is time-consuming because of the slow growth cycle of the plant, in vitro propagation using a bioreactor system was evaluated as an effective approach to accelerate plant production. An efficient method was developed to multiply nodal expiants of NAG using liquid-culture medium and a simple temporary immersion culture vessel.The effects of plant growth regulators, phenolics, and chemical additives (activated charcoal, melatonin, polyvinylpolypyrrolidone, and ascorbic acid) were evaluated on in vitro-grown NAG plants. The highest number (12) of shoots per single node was induced in half-strength Schenk and Hildebrandt basal medium containing 2.5 mg/1 kinetin, in which 81% of the cultured nodes responded. In a culture medium with 0.5 mg/1 -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA), roots were induced in 78% of the expiants compared to 50% with a medium containing indole-3-acetic acid. All of the resulting plants appeared phenotypically normal, and 93% of the rooted plants were established in the greenhouse.Phenolic production increased significantly (P< 0.05) over a 4-wk culture period with a negative impact on growth and proliferation. Activated charcoal (AC; 50 mg/1) significantly reduced total phenolic content and was the most effective treatment for increasing shoot proliferation. Shoot production increased as the phenolic content of the cultures decreased. The most effective treatment for NAG development from cultured nodal expiants in the bioreactor was 2.5 mg/1 kinetin, 0.5 mg/1 NAA, and 50 mg/1 AC in liquid culture medium. This protocol may be useful in providing NAG tissues or plants for a range of ginseng-based natural health products.
4293600|Peroxidase activity was measured in Betula pendula and a time-course curve of activity was used to establish a predictive marker of root induction. Results obtained indicate that the root induction phase terminates after 9h. The findings are discussed in light of the hypothesis of the coincidence of peak auxin levels and termination of root induction.
20171603| This study presents the first comparative analysis of the effect of four different cytokinins, applied to different lentil (Lens culinaris Medik.) explants in four different concentrations, with regard to the regeneration of shoots and roots of the pulse crop. The variables explant, phytohormone and concentration were all found to be highly significant. Mature seed explants showed the highest shoot regeneration over all the phytohormones and concentrations tested. Thidiazuron (TDZ) and benzyladenine (BA) showed a higher number of regenerated shoots than kinetin (KIN) and zeatin (ZEA); an increase from 1.25 M to 10 M of any cytokinin in general doubled the number of shoots regenerated. The average length of regenerated shoots was found to be inversely proportional to the number of shoots regenerated. TDZ and BA were found to inhibit root development more than KIN and ZEA. The highest root regeneration frequency was obtained from shoots regenerated on media containing 1.25 M ZEA. The study concludes that in order to obtain whole plants it is best to regenerate shoots on media containing the cytokinins KIN or ZEA at low concentrations, in order to be able subsequently to regenerate roots. 
4293940|In vitro methods were applied to the only remaining plant of the Meelup Mallee (Eucalyptus phylacis), a critically endangered species from the southwest of Western Australia. Shoot explants were initiated into culture using a 1/2 MS [Murashige and Skoog basal medium (BM) for all experiments] liquid medium supplemented with 1% (w/v) activated charcoal, which was replenished twice daily, followed by transfer of explants to agar medium supplemented with
4292959|This report describes a protocol for regeneration of Brassica nigra in vitro from unorganized callus to a highly differentiated stage of flowering. Callus is initiated from seedling hypocotyl, and root expiants and plantlets are obtained via somatic embryogenesis. Shoot cultures can be established from these plantlets. These shoots can either be induced to flower in vitro or rooted to produce plants which flower ex vitro. Each stage of development is marked with a specific growth regulator requirement. This has potential as a model system to understand the cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in morphogenesis, and it can be used to understand the mechanism of change of phase from vegetative to reproductive. An advantage of this system is that in vitro flowering can be obtained repeatedly in the shoots raised from the axillary buds of the flowering shoots. The protocol can also be used to procure B. nigra gametes under aseptic condition.
20461575|Indirect organogenesis was developed in Agave tequilana. Leaf segments and meristematic tissue from the central head ('pia') were evaluated as explant sources. A minimal-sized explant with high bud-forming capacity (19.5 BFC) was obtained through a cross section of meristematic tissue from in vitro plantlets. In callus culture, the best growth response was due to naphthalene acetic-acid (NAA) presenting a contrasting response compared to 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Regeneration from meristem segments and callus was obtained using 1.1 M 2,4-D and 44 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA). The regeneration capacity of callus was maintained for 3 mo. Shoots regenerated were rooted in a hormone-free MS1 medium and acclimatized in a greenhouse with a 100% survival.
4293469|During the past 6 years, my research group has been trying to unravel the molecular genetic basis of nickel hyperaccumulation in Thlaspi. Our long-term goal is to use the genes we identify to genetically engineer plants ideally suited for phytoremediation (Salt et al., 1998). This investigation has taken us on a journey with many twists, turns, dead ends, and through many types of terrains in the plant physiology landscape. In this short essay, I would like to retrace for you this journey, providing a glimpse of what we feel is now appearing as the essential components of how certain plants hyperaccumulate Ni.
20541029|Corn-based fuel ethanol production processes provide several advantages which could be synergistically applied to overcome limitations of biofuel processes based on lignocellulose. These include resources such as equipment, manpower, nutrients, water, and heat. The fact that several demonstration-scale biomass ethanol processes are using corn as a platform supports this viewpoint. This report summarizes the advantages of first-generation corn-based biofuel processes and then describes the technologies, advantages, and limitations of second-generation lignocellulose-based biofuel systems. This is followed by a discussion of the potential benefit of fully integrating first- and second-generation processes. We conclude with an overview of the technology improvements that are needed to enhance the profitability of biofuel production through development of an integrated biorefinery. A key requirement is creation of industrially robust, multifunctional ethanologens that are engineered for maximum ethanol production from mixed sugars. In addition to ethanol, combined biorefineries could also be the source of valuable co-products, such as chemicals and plastics. However, this will require expression systems that produce high-value co-products. Advantages of this approach are that (1) such strains could be used for bioconversion in any part of the combined biorefinery and (2) using one recombinant organism with many additions should simplify the process of obtaining necessary FDA approval for feed products produced by or containing recombinant organisms.
4293390| Flowers of Aesculus hippocastanum L. are bisexual and zygomorphic, and are positioned on a 20-30 cm long inflorescence. Those located in the basal part of the panicle are female and fertile (segment A), flowers in the middle are bisexual (segment B), and those on top of the panicle are male (segment C). Androgenesis was achieved in anther culture which originated from three types of flowers cultured on modified Murashige and Skoog medium containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (4.5 M) and kinetin (4.6 M). Differences in viability of uninuclear microspores were found between female (90.0%) and other flowers (bisexual 61.1%; male 72.7%). Both the percentage of embryogenic anthers and the number of androgenic embryos formed per inflorescence differed according to the segment of origin. The highest embryogenic response was obtained in segment A (47.3%) and the lowest in segment C (24.1%). A significant difference was found between the number of androgenic embryos formed per inflorescence in segments A (921.0) and C (286.7). The highest germination percentage (21.3%) and plantlet formation (41.0%) were obtained on woody plant WPM liquid medium supplemented with 1% activated charcoal. Acclimation and regeneration were best from plantlets originating from female flowers (62.5%). Plantlets originating from bisexual and male flowers have much poorer survival (29.3 and 22.2%, respectively). 
4293736| The liliaceous perennial plants, Tricyrtis spp., are cultivated as ornamental plants in Japan. Natural populations of several Japanese Tricyrtis spp. are severely threatened by indiscriminate collection and habitat destruction. In this study, a plant regeneration system based on somatic embryogenesis has been developed for efficient clonal propagation of T. hirta, T. hirta var. albescens, T. formosana, T. formosana cv. Fujimusume, T. flava ssp. ohsumiensis, and T. macrantha ssp. macranthopsis. Flower tepal explants of these genotypes were cultured on media containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid (picloram, PIC) alone or in combination with N-(1,2,3-thiadiazol-5-yl)-N''-phenylurea (thidiazuron, TDZ). Calluses induced on media containing 2,4-D produced somatic embryos following their transfer to a plant growth regulator-free medium, indicating that these calluses were embryogenic. A combination of 4.5 M 2,4-D and 0.45 M TDZ was most effective for inducing embryogenic calluses from tepal explants. Among various explant sources, filaments were most suitable for inducing embryogenic calluses on a medium containing 4.5 M 2,4-D and 0.45 M TDZ. Embryogenic calluses were only obtained from filament explants for T. macrantha ssp. macranthopsis. Embryogenic calluses could be maintained by subculturing monthly onto the same medium, and a 1.5-3.5-fold increase in fresh weight was obtained after 1 mo. of subculture. Depending on the plant genotype, 50-500 somatic embryos per 0.5 g fresh weight of embryogenic callus was obtained 1 mo. after transfer to a plant growth regulator-free medium. Most of the embryos developed into plantlets, and they were successfully acclimatized to greenhouse conditions. Regenerated plants showed no alteration in the ploidy level as indicated by chromosome observation and flow cytometric analysis. 
23016610|Pineapple is one of the most important tropical fruits, but the availability of planting material is insufficient to agricultural demands. Therefore, several pineapple micropropagation protocols have been developed. However, acclimatization of in vitro plants continues to take a prolonged period. Biofertilizers have been found as safe alternatives to improve the agricultural performances of many crops. This study highlights some of the effects of the application of Azotobacter chroococcum (INIFAT5 strain) on in vitro pineapple plants during acclimatization. The bacteria were sprayed immediately after transplanting to the ex vitro environment; the plants were then sprayed every 4 wk. A control group of plants was established. Subsequently, after 5 mo, the evaluated variables included fresh and dry plant weight, plant height (cm), and root length (cm). The anatomy of middle-aged leaves and roots was also studied: transversal thickness and width of cuticle, epidermis, hypodermis, aquiferous parenchyma, and photosynthetic parenchyma. Thickness of root exoderm, external cortex, internal cortex, and stele were also evaluated. In general, the INIFAT5 strain improved the plant development. Results showed that the bacteria significantly provoked changes in the plant fresh weight, the thickness of the leaf abaxial and adaxial cuticles, and the root exoderm width. Contrastingly, A. chroococcum did not affect the thickness of the leaf photosynthetic parenchyma.
4293783|In vitro culture of hairy roots of Phyllanthus amarus induced by Agrobacterium rhizogenes was established. Their growth and ability for in vitro inactivation of hepatitis B virus surface antigen was studied and compared with adventitious roots grown in vitro. The selected hairy root clone HR-1 was capable of growing at a very fast rate, and an approximately 900- fold increase in weight of root biomass was achieved after 4 wk of culture in hormone-free quarter-strength liquid Murashige and Skoog medium with continuous agitation. Non-transformed roots cultured in the presence of
20461557|Immature seeds of Garcinia indica Choiss. were excised from immature fruits and cultured on Lloyd and McCown (1980), woody plant medium (WPM) with different combinations of auxins and cytokinins. Somatic embryos were obtained on the media supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine (BA; 2.2-22.1 M) alone or in combination with -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA; 2.6 M) with 80% frequency within a period of 2-3 wk. Subculture of embryos on medium containing BA (16.0 M) supplemented with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA; 2.8-5.7 M) and/or kinetin (4.6 M) gave rise to clusters of secondary somatic embryos along with maturation of primary embryos. In subsequent subculture on hormone-free half-strength WPM, the embryo clusters germinated with an increase in the number of secondary somatic embryos. About 70% of somatic embryos germinated into complete plantlets, which were successfully established under greenhouse conditions.
4293143|An in vitro culture system for direct shoot regeneration from cotyledon explants of rapid-cycling Brassica rapa was developed. Cotyledons from 3-d-old seedlings, when cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 20  M
4292971|Cell suspension cultures of buffelgrass were established from two types of callus, a friable tan callus and a brown gelatinous callus, using Murashige and Skoog medium containing
4293780|The present study aimed to evaluate the response to salinity of Populus euphratica, which is more salt-resistant than other poplar cultivars, at the cellular level. To this purpose, callus was induced from shoot segments of P. euphratica on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
4293859| In vitro adventitious shoot bud regeneration systems are considered most suitable for Agrobacterium- and biolisticsmediated genetic transformation to obtain transgenic plants. In the present investigation, multiple adventitious shoot buds could be induced directly from Feronia limonia hypocotyl explants inoculated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing different growth regulators. During the initial phase, the hypocotyl segments nearer to the cotyledons responded quickly compared to those closer to the root. The response, however, was comparable in both the segments in subsequent subculture. Of the various cytokinins, 2.22 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) proved to be more effective compared to kinetin (Kn). The two-way interaction of BA and Kn significantly influenced shoot regeneration and contributed the most among the interactions studied. The best response, however, was obtained when 2.22 M BA and 2.32 M Kn were combined. Although the effect of auxins like -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) combined with cytokinins evoked a significant response in terms of number of shoot buds, this response did not supersede the effect of combined cytokinins. None of the polyamines tested induced shoot buds on hypocotyl segments. Adventitious shoots were multiplied on MS medium containing 2.22 M BA, 6.96 M Kn, and 0.05 M NAA. More than 60% of the shoots produced roots when cultured on medium containing one-quarter strength MS salts, 1.0% sucrose, 0.6% agar, and 7.36 M indole-3-butyric acid. The adventitious origin of shoot buds showing continuous vascular connections was confirmed through histological investigations. 
4293617| Rapid clonal propagation and encapsulation of in vitro-formed bulbs of Ipsea malabarica (Reichb. f.) J. D. Hook., an endemic and endangered orchid of the Western Ghats of Kerala, and its reintroduction to the natural habitat were accomplished. Rhizome segments of Ipsea cultured on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 6.97 M kinetin induced the highest number of shoots, at the rate of four shoots per explant within 50 d. Transfer of the isolated shoots increased the rate of shoot multiplication to more than 10 shoots. Subsequent culture enhanced the number of shoots. No decline of shoot multiplication was observed up to the 10th subculture. Shoots developed bulbs during culture which developed into rhizomes. Sucrose at 6-8% reduced the time for the development of bulbs and rhizomes. Roots were developed from the base of the developed shoots as well as from the bulbs. Isolation and culture of bulbs also developed 5-10 shoots within 50 d. Encapsulated in vitro-formed bulbs cultured either on hormone-free half-strength MS or 6.97 M kinetin-supplemented medium facilitated 100% conversion. As a step to conservation in situ, 50 plantlets were reintroduced into their natural habitat, i.e. at Vellarimala (at 1300 m height) of the Western Ghats of Kerala, and flowered normally. Development of more than 40 000 plantlets starting from a single explant is possible within 250 d. This threatened endemic orchid stands to benefit greatly from the established protocol and will hopefully curtail the threat of extinction. 
4293845|Although somatic hybridization techniques are being ignored by variety improvement programs for most commodities, their contribution to citrus variety improvement continues to expand and with increasing complexity. Citrus is one of the few commodities where somatic hybridization is reaching its predicted potential, as somatic hybrids are now possible from most desirable parental combinations. Somatic hybrid citrus plants have been produced from more than 250 parental combinations, including more than 130 at the CREC. The CREC hybrids include 34 from sexually compatible intergeneric combinations, 16 from sexually incompatible combinations, and 81 interspecific combinations. The objective of this report is to demonstrate the impact of somatic hybridization on citrus improvement programs, and to discuss its potential with other commodities. For citrus scion improvement, several applications are aimed at the development of improved seedless fresh fruit varieties, and these include symmetric somatic hybridization, haploid + diploid fusion, targeted cybridization to transfer cytoplasmic male sterility (mtCMS) from Satsuma mandarin, and triploidy via interploid crosses using somatic hybrid allotetrapoid breeding parents. For rootstock improvement, symmetric somatic hybridization provides an opportunity to hybridize complementary rootstocks without breaking up successful gene combinations. Rootstock somatic hybridization is providing opportunities for improving disease and insect resistance, soil adaptation, and tree size control. Wide somatic hybridization provides an opportunity for gene transfer from related species, including some that are sexually incompatible. Extensive field research on citrus somatic hybrid rootstocks combined with emerging molecular analyses of citrus has allowed for the development of additional strategies for rootstock improvement. These include rootstock breeding and selection at the tetraploid level using somatic hybrid parents, and the resynthesis of important rootstocks at the tetraploid level via fusion of selected superior parents. Ongoing examples of each strategy will be provided, along with ideas for extending the technology to other commodities.
23016701|Taverniera cuneifolia (Roth) Arn. or Indian licorice is considered to be a substitute for Glycyrrhiza glabra L. owing to an equivalent content of glycyrrhizic acid (GA). GA recognized as the main active ingredient of T. cuneifolia, GA imparts several medicinal properties to these plants. However, research on this plant is scanty with no published record on tissue culture studies. Present study demonstrates a method for (1) induction and successful development of somatic embryos from the root culture, (2) regeneration of plants, and (3) GA production by root cultures of T. cuneifolia. Shoot initiation frequency of cultured roots ranged from 52.57% to 97.71%. Plant regeneration frequency (germination) from somatic embryos was 88.66% in 1/4-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2% sucrose, as against 68% in half 1/2-strength MS containing 2% sucrose. Glycyrrhizic acid of 1.32 mg/gm of dry weight was obtained in full-strength MS medium supplemented with 3% sucrose, through high-performance thin layer chromatography analysis with standard GA in root cultures. The present study provides an efficient method for the mass production of plants from a single mother plant as well as the potential root culture system to study the GA production pathways in T. cuneifolia.
4293118| The effect of the type of gelling agent and of several antibiotics on the adventitious bud regeneration from in vitro leaves was tested on eight pear genotypes. The use of gellan gum (Phytagel) in the medium instead of agar had a very strong positive effect on the rate of adventitious bud regeneration for all pear genotypes tested in this study. This gelling agent induced faster cell divisions than agar, thus more callus was produced on wound sites and subsequently more buds regenerated. Incubation on gellan gum medium during the first 20 d of bud induction was sufficient to induce a stimulatory effect on regeneration and limited the production of hyperhydric buds. In the prospect of Agrobacterium transformation, the effect of several antibiotics was tested. Cefotaxime (200 mg/l) plus ticarcillin/clavulanic acid (100 mg/l) could be used in the culture medium without affecting the frequency of bud regeneration. The inhibition of bud regeneration was obtained with different kanamycin concentrations according to the gelling agent in the medium. On gellan gum medium, a concentration of 100 mg/l of kanamycin was suitable. These conditions can be recommended for experiments on Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of pear, where bacterial inoculation and presence of antibiotics generally reduce and delay bud regeneration. 
23326882|A simple and efficient protocol has been developed for in vitro regeneration of M. acuminata ssp. burmannica (AA) plants. Somatic embryos were produced when immature and mature zygotic embryo explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with plant growth regulators 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid; (2,4-D), picloram or benzyl adenine and indole acetic acid. In general, immature embryos responded better than mature embryos. Callus proliferation was highest in medium supplemented with 2,4-D (4.5 M). Subsequent transfer of callus to fresh medium produced rapidly proliferating embryogenic calli. Embryogenic calli were maintained in complete darkness for 15 d followed by cycles of 8 h dark and 16 h light, under white fluorescent lamps with a light intensity of 3,000 lm/m 2 and at temperature of 282C. Regeneration of embryogenic calli into plantlets was higher for immature embryos (76.6%) than for mature embryos (50.6%). This plant regeneration protocol using mature or immature zygotic embryos, via somatic embryogenesis, has significant potential to improve germination efficiencies of hybrid progenies used in conventional breeding strategies. Furthermore, tests on seed storage showed that seed viability rapidly decline after harvesting and was negligible after 9 mo of storage. This indicates using freshly harvested seeds as explant material is necessary for maximizing the tissue culture response.
4293318|Nearly 30 years ago the conditions for culturing immature cotton ovules were established to serve as a working research tool for investigating the physiology and biochemistry of fiber development. Not only has this tissue culture method been employed to characterize the biochemistry of plant cell expansion and secondary cell wall synthesis, but ovule cultures have contributed to numerous other aspects of plant cell physiology and development as well. In addition to basic studies on fiber development, cotton ovule cultures have been used to examine plant-fungal interactions, to model low temperature stress responses, to elucidate the pathways responsible for pigment formation in naturally pigmented fiber and to probe how cytoskeletal elements regulate cell wall organization. Success in rescuing Gossypium interspecific hybrids was dependent on ovule culture media formulations that could support early embryo development in ovulo. As tissues produced in culture are analyzed by increasingly more sophisticated techniques, there appear to be some differences between ovule growth in planta and ovule growth in vitro. Discerning how ovule culture fiber development is different from fiber development in field-grown plants can contribute valuable information for crop improvement. Cotton ovule cultures are an especially attractive model system for studying the effects of gravity on cell elongation, cellulose biosynthesis and embryo development and are excellent targets for examining transient expression of introduced gene constructs. With only minor modification, the procedure originally described by C. A. Beasley and I. P. Ting for growing cotton ovules in vitro will continue to be a useful research tool for the foreseeable future.
20461751|Somatic embryogenesis is an in vitro clonal propagation method with potential to contribute to the improvement of cacao varieties. Before using this technology for commercial production, it is essential that somatic embryogenesis-derived plants be tested in field conditions. Therefore, we established a field test at Union Vale Estate, Saint Lucia. Thirty- to 50-yr-old trees were selected for clonal propagation as potentially high yielding based on local farmers observations. Clonal plants were propagated in vitro from immature flowers by embryogenesis and micropropagation. Multiple plants from nine genotypes were acclimated to greenhouse conditions then returned to Saint Lucia and planted in a field. Orthotropic rooted cuttings and locally propagated open pollinated seedlings were also planted for a total of 214 trees. Growth data were collected every 4-6 mo. including: stem diameter, stem height, length of the longest jorquette branch, number of jorquette branches, and dates of first flowering and fruiting. At 4.5 yr after planting in the field there were no major differences in all growth parameters among the propagation methods evaluated with exception of the orthotropic rooted cuttings. Trees grown from seeds were slightly taller then trees propagated by the other methods. Trees propagated as orthotropic rooted cuttings exhibited smaller average stem diameters, shorter stem heights to the jorquette, and shorter jorquette branches. We concluded that somatic embryo-derived plants demonstrated normal phenotypes in field conditions and have growth parameters similar to plants propagated by traditional methods.
40663778|An efficient protocol for secondary somatic embryogenesis in camphor tree is reported. Secondary somatic embryos (SSEs), initially obtained from the primary embryos of a nascent embryognie culture in 2002, were proliferated and maintained for more than 4 yr via cyclic secondary somatic embryogenesis. Throughout this period, the embryo populations retained a high level of competence for plant regeneration. SSEs were produced on the surfaces of the cotyledons and radicular ends of maternal somatic embryos (MSEs). Histological observations of the various stages of secondary embryo development revealed four typical stages, namely, globular, heartshaped, torpedo, and cotyledonary. The process of secondary embryogenesis continued in a cyclic way, with each newly formed embryo producing a subsequent generation of secondary embryos. In order to progress developmentally beyond proliferation cycles, cotyledonary embryos from one of embryognie lines (LI4) were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 0.1-3.0 mg 1 abscisic acid (ABA) or 0.05-1.0 mg 1 thidiazuron (TDZ) in darkness for 2 mo to achieve maturation. Matured embryos were then transferred to MS-based germination medium containing either 0.1 mg 1 TDZ, 0.2 mg 1 indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), and 0.5 mg 1 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) or 0.1 mg 1 TDZ and 0.2 mg 1 IBA and were cultured in light for germination. Over 50% of embryos matured in the presence of 0.5 mg 1 ABA were able to germinate with shoots and poor root system. Frequencies of embryos germinating normal shoots among different genotypes did not change significantly. A total of 93% of the shoots from the germinated embryos converted to plantlets on half strength MS medium with 0.5 mg  IBA by 3 wk. Plantlets acclimatized successfully to ex vitro conditions and developed as field-grown plants with normal appearance.
4293798| High-frequency somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration was achieved on callus derived from leaf (petiole and lamina) and internode explants of Centella asiatica L. Growth regulators significantly influenced the frequency of somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration. Calluses developed on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium fortified with 4.52 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or 5.37 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), both with 2.32 M kinetin (Kn), were superior for somatic embryogenesis. Callus developed on NAA and Kn-supplemented medium favored induction and maturation of embryos earlier compared to that on 2,4-D and Kn. Embryogenic callus transferred from NAA and Kn-supplemented medium to suspension cultures of half-strength MS medium with NAA (2.69 M) and Kn (1.16 M) developed a mean of 204.3 somatic embryos per 100 mg of callus. Embryogenic callus transferred from 2,4-D and Kn subsequently to suspension cultures of half-strength MS medium with 2,4-D (0.45 M) and Kn (1.16 M) developed a mean of 303.1 embryos per 100 mg of callus. Eighty-eight percent of the embryos underwent maturation and conversion to plantlets upon transfer to half-strength MS semisolid medium having 0.054 M NAA with either 0.044 M BA or 0.046 M Kn. Embryo-derived plantlets established in field conditions displayed morphological characters identical to those of the parent plant. 
42568818|An effective protocol for protoplast isolation from young leaves and somatic embryogenic cells of species in the Chamelaucium group and the use of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) to enhance protoplast viability are described. Mesophyll protoplasts were isolated from young leaves of a white Geraldton waxflower (Chamelaucium uncinatum) line 583, using a mixture of 1% (w/v) cellulase R10, 0.5% (w/v) macerozyme R10, and 0.1% (w/v) pectolyase. Viability of isolated mesophyll protoplasts increased dramatically when SOD and CAT were added. The highest increase of 7.61-fold in viability and 4.34-fold of viable protoplast yield were achieved when a combination of SOD at 500 units mL and CAT at 2,000 units mL was added to the enzyme mixture. Somatic embryogenic cell-derived protoplasts were isolated from embryogenic suspension cells of C. uncinatum line 583 when 1% (w/v) hemicellulase was added to a combination of 2% (w/v) cellulase R10, and 1% (w/v) macerozyme R10. Addition of SOD at 500 units mL and CAT at 2,000 units mL to the enzyme mixture improved viability only slightly, to above 90%, but improved yield significantly (6.6-fold). This combination of enzymes was also used to isolate protoplasts from embryogenic suspension cells of Chamelaucium repens and from young leaves of C. uncinatum, Actinodium calocephalum, Verticordia etheliana, Verticordia grandis, Verticordia hughanii, and Verticordia mitchelliana successfully with viability >80% and viable yield >710 cells g fresh weight (or per milliliter packed cell volume in the case of suspension cells).
4292984| The production of cotyledonary somatic embryos of white spruce from cultures grown long-term as suspensions was investigated. We report the effects of removal of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) from the maintenance medium (ordinarily containing both 2,4-D and benzyl adenine) before ()-ABA-stimulated maturation. In particular the use of a 1-wk culture period without 2,4-D was found to improve the production of normal-looking cotyledonary somatic embryos. Using high performance liquid chromatography analyses of culture supernatants, it was determined that this affect was not related to altered ABA metabolism. Germination of cotyledonary somatic embryos from cultures pretreated by the 1-wk culture period without 2,4-D was improved compared with similar embryos from cultures that had not been pretreated. 
4293340|A simple, efficient protocol for in vitro micropropagation of guayule is reported. Shoot cultures were maintained on MS (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) medium supplemented with
23016616|Efficient plant regeneration is essential for successful transformation and in vitro polyploidy induction in mulberry. A high frequency (80%) of plant regeneration from hypocotyls occurred under in vitro conditions in mulberry (Morus multicaulis Poir.). We identified three key factors for enhancing successful regeneration based on earlier work: (1) hypocotyl position, (2) the combination and concentration of growth regulators, and (3) the addition of AgNO3. The highest frequency of shoot regeneration was achieved using hypocotyl segments, which are proximal to apical meristems, and the optimal culture conditions were Murashige and Skoog's (MS) (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) basal medium supplemented with 3.0 mg 1 1 6-benzylamino purine, 0.3 mg 1 1 indole-3-acetic acid, 0.1% polyvinypyrrolidone, and 1.0 mg/l silver nitrate (AgNO 3 ) under subdued light at 252C. Treating the shoots with 0.2% colchicine (dipping for 72 h) resulted in a 14% tetraploid frequency, whereas a 20% tetraploid frequency resulted from using a 0.25% colchicine (dripping for 5 d) treatment, as determined by chromosome number counts. The diploid plant chromosome number was 28 (2n=2x=28) and that of tetraploid plants was 56 (2n=4x=56). Regenerated shoots rooted easily in 810 d using half-strength basal MS medium with 0.5 mg 1 1 indole-3-butyric acid and were successfully established in the soil.
40793214|Targeted integration of foreign genes into plant genomes is a much sought-after technology for engineering precise integration structures. Homologous recombinationmediated targeted integration into native genomic sites remained somewhat elusive until made possible by zinc finger nuclease-mediated double-stranded breaks. In the meantime, an alternative approach based on the use of site-specific recombination systems has been developed which enables integration into previously engineered genomic sites (sitespecific integration). Follow-up studies have validated the efficacy of the site-specific integration technology in generating transgenic events with a predictable range and stability of expression through successive generations, which are critical features of reliable and practically useful transgenic lines. Any DNA delivery methods can be used for site-specific integration; however, best efficiency is mostly obtained with direct DNA delivery methods such as particle bombardment. Although site-specific integration approach provides unique advantages for producing transgenic plants, it is still not a commonly used method. The present article discusses barriers and solutions for making it readily available to both academic research and applicative use.
4293925| Stable genetic transformation of embryogenic cultures of Abies nordmanniana (Nordmann fir or Caucasian fir) was achieved using the Biolistic transformation technology, followed by regeneration of transgenic plants. Selection of the transgenic tissue was based on the antibiotic resistance induced by the neomycin phosphotransferase II gene (npt II), in combination with the antibiotic geneticin. Six transclones were recovered from a total of 215 bombardments. Expression of the -glucuronidase gene (uidA) was confirmed by histochemical analysis, and expression of npt II was verified by quantification of NPTII protein by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Both genes were still expressed in the embryogenic tissue after 5 yr of in vitro culture and in mature somatic embryos and plants produced from these cultures. The integration of npt II was confirmed by Southern hybridization in embryogenic tissue after 5 yr of culture. After 5 yr of growth, uidA was still expressed in needles from the transformed trees. 
41496450|The effect of para-fluorophenylalanine (PFP) on the production of trisomie plants of Agave tequilana Weber var. Azul produced through somatic embryogenesis was investigated. Normal diploid plants with 2n=2x=60 were obtained in the control treatment and with 4 mg L PFP exposure, while use of 8 and 12 mg L PFP led to production of trisomies with 2n= 2x= 61. Normal diploid plants showed a bimodal karyotype with five pairs of large chromosomes and 25 pairs of small chromosomes. Trisomie plants also had a bimodal karyotype with a group of three chromosomes in position five of the chromosome set. More than 13 homologous chromosome pairs exhibited structural changes. Differences in chromosome arm ratio (long arm/short arm) were also found in eight chromosome pairs; all these aberrations in the chromosome complement of trisomie plants were probably caused by inversions, deletions, and/or duplications produced by high concentrations of PFP. The gross chromosome structural changes and the presence of a single extra chromosome could have been induced by the effect of PFP on the mitotic spindle by inducing nondisjunction of sister chromatids, resulting in hyperploids (2n + x) and hypoploids (2n -x). Flow cytometric analysis of nuclear DNA content was performed using nuclei isolated from young leaves of normal and trisomie plants. The 2C DNA content of 8.635 pg (1Cx= 4,223 Mbp of trisomie plants was different (p<0.001) than that of normal plants (2C DNA= 8.389 pg (1Cx= 4,102 Mbp). The difference in genome size was correlated with the large structural changes in the trisomie plant genomes.
20461724|Enhanced numbers of multiple shoots were induced from shoot tip explants of cucumber. The effects of amino acids (leucine, isoleucine, methionine, threonine, and tryptophan) and polyamines (spermidine, spermine, and putrescine) along with benzyladenine (BA) on multiple shoot induction were investigated. A Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing a combination of BA (4.44 M), leucine (88 M), and spermidine (68 M) induced the maximum number of shoots (36.6 shoots per explant) compared to BA (4.44 M) alone or BA (4.44 M) with leucine (88 M). The regenerated shoots were elongated on the same medium. Elongated shoots were transferred to the MS medium fortified with BA (4.44 M), leucine (88 M), and putrescine (62 M) for root induction. Rooted plants were hardened and successfully established in soil with a 90% survival rate.
4293350|The development of Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) somatic embryos on a maturation medium was accompanied by changes in nonstructural carbohydrate status. During embryo maturation, the content of total soluble sugars in the embryonal suspensor mass decreased and the partitioning between sucrose and hexoses changed considerably in favor of sucrose. Developing somatic embryos were mainly responsible for these changes. Osmotic stress caused by the presence of 3.75% polyethylene glycol (PEG) in the maturation medium (decrease in osmotic potential by 52.5 kPa) resulted in dramatic changes in the content of endogenous saccharides. There was a lower total carbohydrate content in the embryonal suspensor mass grown on the medium containing PEG in comparison with the untreated control. Isolated embryos from later stages of embryo development contained mainly sucrose with a small amount (20%) of fructose and nearly no glucose. A further increase in PEG concentration in the medium (7.5%; decrease in osmotic potential by 112.5 kPa compared to the maturation medium) led to a large increase in the total endogenous sugar content. This increase in sugars was a result of the enhanced content of sucrose, fructose, and glucose. The increased glucose content was in contrast to embryos grown on the medium with lower or no PEG content.
4293470|Widespread contamination of the environment by explosives resulting from the manufacture, disposal and testing of munitions is becoming a matter of increasing concern. Most explosives are considered to be a major hazard to biological systems due to their toxic and mutagenic effects. Interest on the bioremediation of land contaminated with explosives has recently been focused on phytoremediation. Unfortunately, whilst plants have many advantages for the remediation of contaminated land and water, they lack the catabolic versatility which enables microorganisms to mineralize such a wide diversity of xenobiotic compounds. This raised the interesting question as to whether the impressive biodegradative capabilities of soil bacteria could be combined with the high biomass and stability of plants to yield an optimal system for in situ bioremediation of explosive residues in soil. Our investigation into the degradation of explosive residues by soil bacteria resulted in the isolation of Enterobacter cloacae PB2, which is capable of utilizing nitrate ester explosives such as pentaerythritol tetranitrate (PETN) and nitroglycerin as the sole source of nitrogen for growth. We have successfully introduced PETN reductase, the enzyme initiating explosive degradation in this organism, into plants to create transgenic plants that degrade explosives. Since the bacterial degradative pathways for many classes of organic pollutant have been elucidated, this may be a generally applicable method of achieving bioremediation of contaminated soil in the environment.
41496511|Plectranthus barbatus (syn. Coleus forskohlii) is the only known source of forskolin, a compound with a wide range of pharmacological activities. Here, an efficient protocol for adventitious root regeneration from leaf expiants of P. barbatus was developed. Different concentrations of plant growth regulators individually and in combination were used to induce roots in vitro. Morphogenic responses and forskolin production varied depending on the concentrations of plant growth regulators added to the medium. Lower concentrations of auxins trigger callus proliferation while higher concentrations induced adventitious root regeneration. Of all the auxins, 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4,5-T), 2 (2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy) propionic acid (2,4,5-TP), and 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid (picloram) induced callus, whereas -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), indole-3-acetic acid, and indole-3-butyric acid induced rhizogenesis. Use of picloram at 1.0 and 0.5 mg with 0.5 mg l 6-benzylamino purine (BA), rhizogenic callus was produced. The cytokinins BA and kinetin produced a mixed response of multiple shoot regeneration, callus proliferation, and rhizogenesis. The maximum forskolin content of 1,178 mg kg dry weight was found in root cultures initiated on Gamborg's B medium supplemented with 0.5 mg l NAA. The biosynthesis of forskolin was differentiation dependent, and rhizogenic cultures exhibited the maximum biosynthetic potential for forskolin.
20064874|Shoots of "San Castrese" and "Portici" apricots (Prunus armeniaca L.) free of cultivable bacteria, shoots of the same origin exhibiting bacterial contamination after repeated subcultures, and contaminated shoots treated with cefotaxime were compared for gas exchange, proliferation rate, and fresh and dry weight. Cultures of San Castrese contaminated by Bacillus circulans and Sphingomonas paucimobilis, and of Portici contaminated with Staphylococcus hominis and Micrococcus kristinae, including those treated with cefotaxime, showed comparable shoot weights and lower proliferation rates than healthy cultures. Bacteria, even if not visible until the end of subculture, markedly influenced the gaseous composition of the jar headspace. Healthy cultures clearly showed photosynthetic activity at
23016604|In the use of genetic transformation in breeding, there are several possible problems including multiple copy insertion of transgene, sterility caused by somaclonal variation and gene silencing. In this study, we characterized transgenic New Rice for Africa (NERICA) produced by Agrobacterium-mediated methods with respect to copy number of transgene, fertility, and expression level of an introduced GUS gene. Southern blot analysis of primary transformants demonstrated that about half of the events carried a single copy of the transgene regardless of the cell density of Agrobacerium for inoculation. We examined ten procedures, consisting of different time periods and times of subculture for callus formation and the starting times of hygromycin-based selection of transformed cells, for transformation of NERICA cultivars to produce transformants within a short culture period at high frequency. A new culture method developed in this study required only about 1.5 mo from the beginning of tissue culture to transformants, whereas a standard protocol we developed previously needed about 2 mo of culture; however, it did not significantly reduce percentages of sterile plants. Fertile T0 plants produced fertile T 1 plants at higher frequency. However, fertility was not inherited in a simple fashion: both fertile and partially sterile T0 plants produced fertile, partially sterile and sterile T 1 plants. Expression assay of an introduced GUS gene revealed position effects in seven independent homozygous transformed lines carrying one copy of the transgene. Points to pay attention to in the use of genetic transformation in breeding are discussed.
4293769| Cryopreservation (liquid nitrogen, - 196C) represents the only safe and cost-effective option for long-term conservation of germplasm of non-orthodox seed species, vegetatively propagated species, and of biotechnology products. Classical cryopreservation techniques, which are based on freeze-induced dehydration, are mainly employed for freezing undifferentiated cultures and apices of cold-tolerant species. New cryopreservation techniques, which are based on vitrification of internal solutes, are successfully employed with all explant types, including cell suspensions and calluses, apices, and somatic and zygotic embryos of temperate and tropical species. The development of cryopreservation protocols is significantly more advanced for vegetatively propagated species than for recalcitrant seed species. Even though its routine use is still limited, there are a growing number of examples where cryopreservation is employed on a large scale for different types of materials, including seeds with orthodox and intermediate storage behaviour, dormant buds, pollen, biotechnology products, and apices sampled from in vitro plantlets of vegetatively propagated species. Cryopreservation can also be employed for uses other than germplasm conservation, such as cryoselection, i.e., the selection through freezing of samples with special properties, or cryotherapy, i.e., the elimination of viruses from infected plants through apex cryopreservation. Because of its high potential, it is expected that cryopreservation will become more frequently employed for long-term conservation of plant genetic resources. 
42568704|Exclusion of sodium ions from cells is one of the key salinity tolerance mechanisms in plants. The highaffinity cation transporter (HKT1;5) is located in the plasma membrane of the xylem, excluding Na from the parenchyma cells to reduce Na concentration. The regulatory mechanism and exact functions of HKT genes from different genotypic backgrounds are relatively obscure. In this study, the expression patterns of HKT1;5 in A and D genomes of wheat were investigated in root and leaf tissues of wild and domesticated genotypes using real-time PCR. In parallel, the K/Na ratio was measured in salt-tolerant and salt-sensitive cultivars. Promoter analysis were applied to shed light on underlying regulatory mechanism of the HKT1;5 expression. Gene isolation and qPCR confirmed the expression of HKT1;5 in the A and D genomes of wheat ancestors (Triticum boeoticum, AbAb and Aegilops crassa, MMDD, respectively). Interestingly, earlier expression of HKT1;5 was detected in leaves compared with roots in response to salt stress. In addition, the salt-tolerant genotypes expressed HKT1;5 before salt-sensitive genotypes. Our results suggest that HKT1;5 expression follows a tissue-and genotypespecific pattern. The highest level of HKT1;5 expression was observed in the leaves of Aegilops, 6 h after being subjected to high salt stress (200 mM). Overall, the D genome allele (HKT1;5-D) showed higher expression than the A genome (HKT1;5-A) allele when subjected to a high NaCl level. We suggest that the D genome is more effective regarding Na exclusion. Furthermore, in silico promoter analysis showed that TaHKT1;5 genes harbor jasmonic acid response elements.
23321152|A procedure for micropropagation of pitaya using thidiazuron (TDZ) and naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) is described. Explants were excised from young joints of mature plants and cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) containing 0.5 M NAA and 0.5 M TDZ. Shoots produced from these first explants were cut up to produce secondary explants, either by decapitation or by longitudinal division into three parts. The decapitated and longitudinal explants were cultured on MS supplemented with 0.5 M NAA and either 0.01, 0.09, 0.5, or 0.9 M TDZ. Decapitated explants produced more shoots at higher frequency than the longitudinal explants. For both types of secondary explants, most shoots were developed from the distal parts. Shoots produced from secondary explants were rooted in MS and then transferred to soil where they produced normal plants.
4293288| Transgenic soybean can be efficiently produced by particle bombardment of embryogenic suspension culture material. Unfortunately, the time required to obtain a transformation-competent soybean suspension culture line is often lengthy and can result in reduced fertility of regenerated plants. In addition, establishment and maintenance of embryogenic suspension cultures can be very difficult. The objective of this work was to minimize the time required to obtain transformation-competent embryogenic tissue and optimize DNA delivery into that tissue. Somatic embryos were induced from immature cotyledons of soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill cv 'Jack'] by placement of cotyledons, adaxial side up, on a MS-based induction medium containing 40 mg (181 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) per l and 6% sucrose. Embryogenic tissues, which formed from the surface of the cotyledons within 2-4 wk, were transferred to an embryo proliferation medium containing 20 mg (90 M) 2,4-D per l and 3% sucrose. After 4 wk, proliferative embryogenic tissue could be used for transformation via particle bombardment. Desiccation of target tissue, period of subculture prior to bombardment, and the number of bombardments per target tissue were evaluated for enhancement of transient -glucuronidase (GUS) expression. The highest number of blue foci was observed when the target tissue was desiccated for 10 min in an uncovered Petri plate containing proliferation medium, subcultured on the same day of bombardment, and bombarded three times on a single day. For stable transformation, selection was started 20 d after bombardment using 9 mg hygromycin per l for 4 wk, and 18 mg per l thereafter. Stably transformed clones were obtained from tissue bombarded once and twice on a single day. GUS assays and Southern hybridization analysis of DNA from putative clones confirmed stable integration of the introduced genes. Fertile transgenic plants were obtained in 11-12 mo following culture initiation. 
4293669|A strategy for the screening of candidate virus-derived sequences to provide RNA-mediated citrus tristeza virus (CTV) resistance and early selection of virus-resistant citrus is presented. The system is based on the polyethylene glycol- (PEG) mediated cotransformation of protoplasts using virus-derived sequences and green fluorescent protein as a single selectable marker, followed by an in vitro assay of virus inoculation into transgenic protoplasts to determine the level of citrus tristeza virus replication. A cotransformation rate higher than 20% allowed selection of several clones carrying the desired transgenes. Efficient in vitro inoculation of virus in transgenic protoplasts was performed. Tobacco mosaic virus virions were used as a control in order to check citrus protoplast viability. Different CTV replication levels were detected in transgenic clones. Only one clone showed no replication of CTV. Considerations regarding selection of candidate virus-derived sequences and virus challenge of transgenic cells are presented.
4293875|Embryo development is a very key phase in the life cycle of seed plants. At maturity, the embryo contains the complete machinery to elaborate the entire plant body. While the embryogenic process is an innate feature of the zygote, gametic and somatic cells can undergo embryogenesis under the appropriate culture conditions. Embryogenesis is a highly regulated process and the use of mutants, especially in Arabidopsis, has allowed the identification of genes regulating pattern formation during this process. The use of such mutants has revealed the critical roles of auxin levels and transport in the establishment of embryo axis. Root and shoot apical meristem function and integrity have been defined by examination of genes involved in their identity and function. Further knowledge of the molecular and biochemical aspects of zygotic embryogenesis should contribute to our understanding of the underlying regulatory pathways and networks and also provide critical insights into unique totipotent features of the plant cell.
25623010|Tecoma stans is a tropical plant from the Americas. Antioxidant activity and both phenolic compound and flavonoid total content were determined for callus tissue of T. stans cultured in either a set photoperiod or in darkness. Callus lines from three explant types (hypocotyls, stem, and leaf) were established on B5 culture medium supplemented with 0.5 M 2,4-D and 5.0 M kinetin. While leaf-derived callus grew slower under a 16-h photoperiod (specific growth rate, =0.179 d, $t_{{\rm D}}=3.9$ d) than in darkness (=0.236 d, $t_{{\rm D}}=2.9$ d), it accumulated the highest amount (p<0.05) of both phenolics (86.60.01 mg gallic acid equivalents/g) and flavonoids (339.60.06 mg catechin equivalents/g). Similarly, antioxidant activity was significantly higher (p<0.05) when callus was cultured in period light than when grown in extended darkness. Antioxidant activity measured with a 2,20-azinobis (3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulphonic acid) diammonium salt (ABTS)-based assay was 350.515.8 mmol Trolox/g extract for callus cultured under a defined photoperiod compared to 129.17.5 mmol Trolox/g extract from callus cultured in darkness. Content of phenolic compounds and flavonoids was in agreement with a better antioxidant power (EC=450 g extract/mg 1,1-dipheny1-2-picrylhydrazyl) and antiradical efficiency. Results of the present study show that calli of T. stans are a source of compounds with antioxidant activity that is favored by culture under a set photoperiod.
20461611|Malus micromalus Makino was genetically engineered with the rolC gene via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The antibiotics carbenicillin, hygromycin, and kanamycin (Km) inhibited shoot regeneration from in vitro leaf explants. The leaf segments were infected with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 harboring one of the three different plasmids. Shoots were regenerated only from leaf segments infected with LBA4404 harboring the plasmid with the intron-containing neomycin phosphotransferase II gene as the selectable marker. Preculture of leaf segments on regeneration medium for 2 d before Agrobacterium treatment reduced formation of Km-resistant calluses. Transformation was confirmed by a histochemical -glucuronidase (GUS) assay, amplification of the rolC gene by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and by Southern blot analysis. The rolC-transformed M. micromalus shoots showed an increased rooting ability without auxin treatment, and reduced height, internode length and leaf areas. This research shows the potential application of using the rolC gene for developing dwarf apple rootstocks.
4293814|Modes of regeneration from hypocotyl explants were studied in Pelargonium x hortorum 'Scarlet Orbit,' and three wild relatives, P. zonale, P. alchemilloides, and P. inquinans, on different cytokinin treatments [1  M thidiazuron (TDZ),
4293778| Micropropagation of Scabiosa caucasica cv. Caucasica Blue was achieved by culturing, separating axillary and adventitious shoots, or node sectioning on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with benzyladenine (BA). The highest frequency of adventitious shoots regenerated from nodal or internodal explants and leaf blade (with or without petiole) appeared to occur on MS medium with 4.4 and 18 M BA, respectively. Addition of 0.19 or 1.9 M -naphthaleneacetic acid to the BA-containing medium promoted callus formation and reduced shoot organogenesis. During micropropagation, shoot nodal explants derived from in vitro shoots cultured on MS medium supplemented with 4.4 M BA yielded 8.9 shoots per explant within 40 d after culture initiation. 
4293514|Plantago ovata Forsk (commonly known as Isabgul) is an economically important medicinal plant. In the present investigation, in vitro plant regeneration of P. ovata was attempted through somatic embryogenesis. Casein hydrolysate and coconut water were used in different concentrations in Murashige and Skoog medium along with 1-naphthaleneacetic acid and
4293473| We developed efficient genetic transformation protocols for two species of duckweed, Lemna gibba (G3) and Lemna minor (8627 and 8744), using Agrobacterium-mediated gene transfer. Partially differentiated nodules were co-cultivated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens harboring a binary vector containing -glucuronidase and nptII expression cassettes. Transformed cells were selected and allowed to grow into nodules in the presence of kanamycin. Transgenic duckweed fronds were regenerated from selected nodules. We demonstrated that transgenic duckweed could be regenerated within 3 mo. after Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of nodules. Furthermore, we developed a method for transforming L. minor 8627 in 6 wk. These transformation protocols will facilitate genetic engineering of duckweed, ideal plants for bioremediation and large-scale industrial production of biomass and recombinant proteins. 
40793220|Saffron (Crocus sativus L.) is a monocotyledonous plant propagated via corms, but recently several alternative methods have been reported. To find the conditions suitable for saffron shoot formation from corms, the effect of different concentrations of the plant growth regulatory cytokinins N -benzyladenine (BA) and N-pheny1-1, 2,3-thidiazol-5-ylurea, commonly known as thidiazuron (TDZ), were compared. In all corm expiants, an average of 39.5  5.1 shoots per corm were induced by 4.54  TDZ, whereas only 3.6-11.4% by BA. The outstanding result in the shoot formation stage is the generation of globular, translucent structures that are morphologically similar to globular embryos. To optimize the plant regeneration from the induced adventitious shoots obtained from the TDZ treatment, the shoots were transferred to MS and B5 media supplemented with different concentrations and combinations of NAA and BA. The highest rate of plant regeneration from developing shoots was observed in the B5 medium containing 2.22 M NAA and 2.68 M BA. With optimized hormonal conditions, an average of 19.55  5.75 shoots and 3.18  1.5 roots per expiants were obtained. Based on this experiment, a simple, new and efficient protocol is presented to produce numerous plants from induced corm expiants of saffron.
20541020|Two procedures for the in vitro propagation of Encyclia mariae, a threatened Mexican orchid, were developed. In the first procedure, leaves from in vitro germinated seedlings were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) supplemented with the range of 2.21-4.4 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) in combination with 2.69-10.74 M naphthalene acetic (NAA), 2.07-8.29 M indole-3-butyric (IBA), or 2.85-11.42 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) to determine the best medium for the induction of shooting. Maximum direct shoot formation from leaves was observed on MS containing 22.21 M BA and 10.74 M NAA (25 shoots/explant). The second procedure began with the culture of protocorms on media containing NAA, IBA, or IAA, which induced callus formation with high regenerative potential in the form of protocorm-like-bodies (PLBs) that eventually differentiated into shoots. The optimal response was attained when these structures were cultured on medium with 4.14 M IBA (30 shoots/PLB). To promote the elongation of shoots derived from PLBs, the material was subcultured onto MS medium containing 22.21 M BA and 5.37 M NAA. Through the exploration of the effects of auxins and matrix on the rooting of shoots, it was determined that the optimal rooting occurred on media supplemented either with 5.71 M IAA or 4.14 M IBA either on agar-gelled medium or in liquid media with coir as the matrix. Rooting was found to be 20% higher in liquid media than in agar-gelled medium.
4293409|An efficient method to produce highly regenerative tissues from seeds of a previously recalcitrant cultivar of Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis L. cv. Kenblue) was established under dim-light conditions (
20461687|Efficient plant regeneration through somatic embryogenesis was achieved in Polyscias filicifolia. Embryogenic calluses were induced on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with 0.5 mg l 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 1.0 mg l benzylaminopurine (BAP; type I callus) and on MS medium with 2.0 mg l 2,4-D and 0.01 mg l kinetin (type II callus) from leaf explants of a 2-yr-old plant. Primary somatic embryos (PSEs) developed after four passages of suspension culture established from embryogenic callus when cultured in liquid half-strength MS medium (1/2 MS) without growth regulators. PSEs in the cotyledonary stage were multiplied by adventitious embryogenesis. Single secondary somatic embryos (SSEs) or their clusters developed at the base of PSE hypocotyls and regenerated into plantlets in a one-step process on plant growth regulator-free 1/2 MS medium. Low sucrose concentration of 15 g l promoted development of normal SSEs. All SSEs regenerated into single, well-rooted plantlets on a Nitsch and Nitsch medium supplemented with 0.5 mg l kinetin, 0.1 mg l indole-3-butyric acid, and 10 mg l adenine sulfate. Subsequent two subculture cycles on the same medium were necessary to obtain plantlets sufficiency developed to allow successful transfer to the soil. Rooted plantlets were established in a peat mixture with 90% survival, with the plants showing normal morphological characteristics.
40663769|This paper reports on the optimum concentrations of naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) and 6-benzyladenine (BA) to stimulate callus growth and NAA; kinetin and silver nitrate (AgNO ) for callus redifferentiation in Dianthus caryophyllus L. Meristems were excised and placed in MS medium with 30 g 1 sucrose and 9.0 M 2,4-D.Callus clusters were transferred to MS medium containing NAA (0, 1.7, 3.3, and 5.0 M) and BA (0, 1.7, 3.3, and 5.0 M) for proliferation and to MS medium with 30 g 1 sucrose, 2.5 g 1 phytagel, kinetin (0, 33, and 66 M) NAA (0, 7.95, and 15.9 M) and AgNO (0, 23.54 and 47.08 M) for shoot and root induction. Treatments were applied according to a Box-Behnken design. After callus growth and redifferentiation, plants were incubated in the greenhouse at 18  2C for 4 wk and at 20-26C for 4 wk. Finally, plants were changed to near-commercial greenhouse conditions with different day (30-35C) and night (16-24C) temperatures. Results showed better callus growth at higher NAA concentrations.A maximum callus weight was found with 5.0 M NAA but without BA. A maximum of 78% calluses with shoots was obtained with 15.9 M NAA, 47.08 M AgNO , and 0.74 M kinetin and 58% with roots with 15.7 M NAA and 47. AgNO but without kinetin. The shoots obtained showed little hyperhydricity. Vigorous plants were obtained after gradual acclimatization with an 80% survival rate under nursery conditions.
20461565|In vitro plants of lemon grass were established, starting from shoot apices derived from plants cultivated under field conditions. The effect of the immersion frequency (two, four, and six immersions per day) on the production of biomass in temporary immersion systems (TIS) of 1 liter capacity was studied. The highest multiplication coefficient (12.3) was obtained when six immersions per day were used. The maximum values of fresh weight (FW; 62.2 and 66.2 g) were obtained with a frequency of four and six immersions per day, respectively. However, the values for dry weight (DW; 6.4 g) and height (8.97 cm) were greater in the treatment with four immersions per day. The TIS used in this work for the production of lemon grass biomass may offer the possibility of manipulating the culture parameters, which can influence the production of biomass and the accumulation of secondary metabolites. We describe for the first time the in vitro production of Cymbopogon citratus biomass in TIS.
20064806|A method for culturing excised pea embryo axes, which allows growth of large batches of embryo axes in a reduced volume of medium and is suitable for performing biochemical analyses and early treatment or labeling of embryos with exogenous substances, has been devised. Pea embryo axes were excised from the seeds after 3 h of imbibition and cultured in a mineral medium containing sucrose, vitamins, and casamino acids. Under these conditions, the reactivation of the cell cycle occurs much earlier than in intact seeds: with flow cytometry and bromodeoxyuridine labeling, cells in the S phase were found in the root meristems after only 12 h from the beginning of imbibition. The transition of cells from a quiescent to a proliferative state is accompanied by changes in the electrophoretic pattern of nuclear proteins, particularly with regard to two proteins of apparent molecular weight of 90 and 46 kDa, as shown previously in normally germinating seeds.
20064866|A rapid, efficient assay that is nondestructive and semiquantitative for identifying transgenic plants and progeny from Biolistic and protoplast transformations is described. Leaf sections of maize and wheat plants are placed on an indicator medium containing chlorophenol red and the selection agent. Changes in the color of the medium from red to yellow resulting from altered pH indicate transformed plants within 2-5 d. The method is particularly suited to use with phosphinothricin and could be used with other suitable selectable markers.
4293648|Callus induction was observed from hypocotyl, root, and cotyledonary leaf segments, grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with various concentrations and combinations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and kinetin (KN). Maximum callusing (100%) was obtained from root and cotyledonary leaf segments grown on MS medium supplemented with a combination of
4293262|The toxicity of three antibiotics commonly used to eliminate Agrobacterium tumefaciens from plant tissue during transformation were tested to determine their effect on Pinus pinea L. morphogenesis. Cefotaxime and vancomycin at a dose of 250  g ml
4293153|Leafy shoots of cauliflower were produced from hypocotyl segments, curd branches (debarassed of existing meristems) and intact curd pieces submitted to various basal media. Adventitious shoot production and axillary bud break exhibited very different nutritive requirements. In each case, an interaction between the plant growth regulators and the composition of the basal medium was discovered. Propagation from curd pieces was dependent on the interaction between plant growth regulators and high sucrose-to-macronutrients ratio in the medium. A medium containing 168 mM sucrose, supplemented with
4293923|The productivity of plantation forests is essential to meet the future world demand for wood and wood products in a sustainable fashion and in a manner that preserves natural stands and biodiversity. Plantation forestry has enormously benefited from development and implementation of improved silvicultural and forest management practices during the past century. A second wave of improvements has been brought about by the introduction of new germplasm developed through genetics and breeding efforts for both hardwood and conifer tree species. Coupled with the genetic gains achieved through tree breeding, the emergence of new biotechnological approaches that span the fields of plant developmental biology, genetic transformation, and discovery of genes associated with complex multigenic traits have added a new dimension to forest tree improvement programs. Significant progress has been made during the past five years in the area of plant regeneration via organogenesis and somatic embryogenesis (SE) for economically important tree species. These advances have not only helped the development of efficient gene transfer techniques, but also have opened up avenues for deployment of new high-performance clonally replicated planting stocks in forest plantations. One of the greatest challenges today is the ability to extend this technology to the most elite germplasm, such that it becomes an economically feasible means for large-scale production and delivery of improved planting stock. Another challenge will be the ability of the forestry research community to capitalize rapidly on current and future genomics-based elucidation of the underlying mechanisms for important but complex phenotypes. Advancements in gene cloning and genomics technology in forest trees have enabled the discovery and introduction of value-added traits for wood quality and resistance to biotic and abiotic stresses into improved genotypes. With these technical advancements, it will be necessary for reliable regulatory infrastructures and processes to be in place worldwide for testing and release of trees improved through biotechnology. Commercialization of planting stocks, as new varieties generated through clonal propagation and advanced breeding programs or as transgenic trees with high-value traits, is expected in the near future, and these trees will enhance the quality and productivity of our plantation forests.
20064832|Rapidly growing cell suspension cultures of shepherd's purse (Capsella bursa-pastoris L. Medic.) were established from leaf-derived calli. These suspensions remained unorganized in the presence of 2,4-D, but underwent extensive root organogenesis in a growth regulator-free liquid medium. Attempts to induce direct embryogenesis in liquid cultures were unsuccessful, but numerous embryos were obtained from cells plated onto growth-regulator-free solid medium. These embryos were frequently abnormal, and secondary embryogenesis was problematic for plant recovery, but fertile plants were recovered. Viable protoplasts could readily be isolated from these cell suspensions. After 1 wk of culture, protoplast viability was 62%, and 7% of the cells had divided. Embryogenesis was observed from protoplast-derived microcolonies, plated on growth-regulator-free medium. Although these somatic embryos were difficult to root, plants were recovered. New cell suspensions were more recently established, which were only 4 to 6 mo. old when plant regeneration was attempted. Numerous shoots were obtained when these cells were plated onto growth-regulator-free solid media. However, these shoots differed from the embryos previously obtained in that they readily rooted and rapidly developed into plantlets. This system may allow the use of shepherd's purse as a gene source for introgression of agronomically interesting traits into Brassica crop species through protoplast manipulation and somatic hybridization.
20064824|The relative maturity and competence of somatic embryos is often estimated on the basis of their morphologic similarity to various stages of immature zygotic embryo development. Morphologic abnormalities noted in soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] somatic embryos are similar to those observed in zygotic embryos maturing in vitro and may reflect common interruptions of normal developmental processes. We provide here a more objective means of assessing the point(s) at which cultured embryos deviate from the normal embryogenical pathway by comparing the accumulation of the embryospecific marker proteins (11S and 7S storage globulins, soybean agglutinin, and seed lipoxygenase) between somatic and immature zygotic embryos maturing in culture to zygotic embryos maturing in planta. Immature (heart-stage) soybean (cv. 'McCall') zygotic embryos were removed from the testa and cultured for 5, 15, or 45 days in nine modified Linsmaer-Skoog salts, 5% sucrose liquid medium. Somatic embryos were induced from immature cotyledon explants on a medium containing either naphthalene acetic acid or 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (
4293257|The majority of bamboos (Graminae) are arborescent and perennial. The erect stems (culms) of woody bamboos are useful for a wide variety of purposes. Most bamboos flower only once at the end of very long vegetative growth phases and die afterwards. Flowering in bamboos is thought to be under genetic control, occurring somewhat like an alarm clock, going off at a preset time. The nature of this genetic clock and any interaction between the 'internal clock' and the environment are not yet known. Because of this 'peculiar' flowering behavior, bamboo seeds are available only at very long intervals. Obtaining concurrent flowering in two or more species (or varieties) in space and time is difficult, making perennial seed propagation and genetic improvement by breeding nearly impossible. Besides, this peculiar flowering behavior of bamboos is also believed to have brought the giant pandas to the verge of extinction. One of the spectacular developments in the area of bamboo genetic improvement has been the precocious in vitro induction of flowering. By this method it has been possible to rapidly accelerate the reproductive development (within 3-6 mo. versus 30-60 yr in nature). This has opened the possibility of perennial seed propagation and hybridization. In vitro induction of flowering can be obtained by diverse methods which show some similarities and differences. Induction of flowering is possible in cultures derived from both juvenile and mature explants. The proportion of seedlings induced to flower is possibly influenced by genotypic variation, though the role of methods used cannot be ruled out. A cytokinin or a shift in the auxin-cytokinin equilibrium is believed to bring about in vitro induction of flowering. The pH of the media also has an influence. Induction of flowering and rhizogenesis is considered to be an antagonistic phenomenon in vitro. A comparison between in vitro and in vivo flowering in Bambusa arundinacea has shown that though smaller, in vitro-induced florets are comparable to normal florets. There is reduced pollen fertility and some impairment in pollen wall development. Biochemical studies on the in vitro-induced flowering in bamboos have shown (1) selective expression of esterase and peroxidase isozymes during transition of nonembryogenic calluses to embryogenic calluses, somatic embryo development, germination and subsequent flowering of somatic embryo derived shoots, and (2) minimal peroxidase activity before rhizogenesis and induction of flowering in vitro. There are reports of published and comparable methods having failed to induce flowering in vitro.
20461533|Studies on the development of protocols for the clonal propagation, through somatic embryogenesis, of coconut have been reported for the past three decades, mostly using inflorescence explants, but with low reproducibility and efficiency. Recent improvements in these respects have been achieved using plumular explants. Here, we report a developmental study of embryogenesis in plumule explants using histological techniques in order to extend our understanding of this process. Coconut plumule explants consisted of the shoot meristem including leaf primordia. At day 15 of culture, the explants did not show any apparent growth; however, a transverse section showed noticeable growth of the plumular leaves forming a ring around the inner leaves and the shoot meristem, which did not show any apparent growth. At day 30, the shoot meristem started to grow and the plumular leaves continued growing. At day 45, the explants were still compact and white in color, but showed partial dedifferentiation and meristematic cell proliferation leading to the development of callus structures with a translucent appearance. After 60 d, these meristematic cells evolved into nodular structures. At day 75, the nodular structures became pearly globular structures on the surface of translucent structures, from which somatic embryos eventually formed and presented well-developed root and caulinar meristems. These results allow better insights and an integrated view into the somatic embryogenesis process in coconut plumule explants, which could be helpful for future studies that eventually could lead us to improved control of the process and greater efficiency of somatic embryo and plantlet formation.
20064879|Examination of unfixed immature somatic embryos of white spruce (Picea glauca) with fluorescent rhodamine-labeled phalloidin revealed an extensive network of fine actin microfilaments (MFs) in the embryonal region which were not detected in specimens fixed with formaldehyde. Transition cells linking the embryonal region and suspensor cells contained fine MFs as well as bundles of MFs. The large, highly vacuolated suspensor cells were characterized by actin MF cables only. Treatment of embryos with cytochalasin B (CB) removed the fine MFs from the embryonal region and transition cells, but many MF cables in suspensor cells were resistant. Full recovery from CB treatment was observed in most somatic embryos. Embryogenic protoplasts capable of regenerating to somatic embryos in culture were released from only the embryonal region of somatic embryos. Both uninucleate and multinucleate embryogenic protoplasts retained the extensive network of fine actin MFs. In contrast, protoplasts derived from vacuolated suspensor cells and vacuolated free-floating cells contained thick MF bundles and were not embryogenic. Distinct MF cages enclosed nuclei in multinucleate protoplasts and may be responsible for preventing nuclear fusion. Microspectrophotometric analyses showed that the DNA contents of embryonal cells in the embryo and embryogenic protoplasts were similar and characteristic of rapidly dividing cell populations. However, transition and suspensor cells which released nonembryogenic protoplasts appeared to be arrested in G, and suspensor cells showed signs of DNA degradation.
41496438|Miscanthus sinensis (Poaceae) is a typical perennial giant grass of East Asia. Due to its high photosynthetic efficiency, low input requirements, and high biomass production, M. sinensis shows outstanding potential as a biofuel feedstock. However, the lack of an efficient tissue culture system may limit its utilization potential. Different explants of M. sinensis were evaluated to develop an efficient tissue culture system. Shoot apices from in vitro-germinated seedling explants were tested for adventitious bud proliferation. The highest level of proliferation (multiplication coefficient 6.69) was obtained when shoot apices were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 1.0 mg L 6-benzyladenine (BA), 2.0 mg L kinetin, 0.05 mg L -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA), 3% sucrose, and 0.8% agar. The highest rooting percentage (95.4%) was obtained when adventitious buds were cultured on half-strength MS medium supplemented with 0.2 mg L NAA, 3% sucrose, and 0.8% agar. Significant differences were found in the formation of embryognie callus among different explant types. The embryogenic callus derived from epicotyls had the highest regeneration capacity when cultured on a medium supplemented with 2.0 mg L 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 0.5 mg L BA, and 0.1 mg L thiamine. Under these conditions, the callus induction percentage was 82%.
4293479|Adventitious buds and shoots of Eucalyptus globulus Labill. (Tasmanian Bluegum) have been regenerated from cotyledons and hypocotyls from mature embryos and seedlings. Adventitious buds were induced at high frequency with 0.05  M thidiazuron in combination with 0.2  M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid or
4293512|Mature zygotic embryos of eight (open-pollinated) families of loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.) were cultured on eight different basal salt formulations, each supplemented with
4293129| The effect of sucrose, jasmonic acid (JA) and darkness on bulb formation of garlic Allium sativum L. cv. Ptujski jesenski was studied in vitro. B5 medium supplemented with 3% sucrose, 5 M JA and 5 M 2-isopentenyl adenine (2iP) was used for shoot induction on garlic basal plates. For bulb induction, expiants with developed shoots were transferred onto media with 3% or 8% sucrose in the presence or absence of 5 M JA. Sucrose (8%) significantly increased the percentage of shoots which formed bulbs by 86-90%, bulb diameter and the number of bulbs per basal plate. On medium supplemented with JA, the average number of bulbs per basal plate was 11.5. Growth of expiants in the dark was ineffective for stimulating bulb formation. Simultaneous use of JA and sucrose can improve garlic micropropagation via bulb formation, without intermediate callus formation. 
4293801|Micropropagated grape (Vitis vinifera L.) cv. Arka Neelamani cultures showed a decline in root and shoot growth performance after 6-7 yr of continuous in vitro culture. Indexing the culture medium using nutrient agar or 523 bacteriological medium (Viss et al., 1991) revealed covert bacteria in 75-100% cultures. Testing the tissue from different parts of in vitro plantlets on nutrient agar showed bacteria comprising of six or more morphotypes in 100% of root and collar tissue samples but less frequently in stem segments. The shoot tips had the lowest incidence of bacterial association. The whole shoots treated with NaOCl (4% chlorine) or HgCl
41432834|A highly promising procedure to obtain seedlings of Taxus baccata L. has been developed, which involves a combination of in vitro embryo culture and growth under hydroponic conditions. Embryos isolated from freshly collected seeds were 100% sterile, even though the seeds were not treated with acid or soaked in water prior to culturing. The embryo germination level of non-leached seeds was slightly lower (85%) than those leached in running water for 7 d (100%). The leached embryos germinated with extended roots while the non-leached embryos had abnormal shapes. The embryos cultured on media supplemented with an absorbent (PVP or activated charcoal) had extended roots and shoots and were a larger size without any browning, as compared to those grown without the supplement; activated charcoal gave better results. There were no significant differences in germination rates of T. baccata embryos between the media with differing strengths of macronutrients; however, for further development of the shoot, it was necessary to sub-culture the seedlings in MS in the light. To obtain seedlings with longer roots, they had to be maintained in one-half strength MS in darkness. Approximately 90% of the plants survived when grown hydroponically for 2 mo. The surviving plants showed well-extended roots and were a good starting material for genomic, proteomic, and conservational studies as well as Taxol permeabilization investigations.
4293737| Tamarind, a multipurpose tropical tree species, is economically important for sustainable development of wasteland due to its hardy nature and adaptability to various agroclimatic conditions. Reports on in vitro morphogenesis in this species are limited, due to its recalcitrant and callogenic nature. To overcome these limitations, an attempt was made to induce meristematic activity in seedling explants. Seedlings were germinated in medium with or without thidiazuron (4.54, 9.08, 13.12, 18.16 (M). This growth regulator restricted the differentiation of the apical meristem to form shoots. It triggered proliferation of the meristematic tissue at the cotyledonary node and a large number of meristematic buds appeared in a radial pattern around the node. The meristematic activity extended to the junction of the epicotyl and hypocotyl, giving rise to buds in the form of protuberances in all sides of the junction. These buds differentiated to form shoot primordia and subsequently to shoots in medium devoid of growth regulators. Plants developed by micrografting of these shoots on seedling-derived rootstocks survived in soil. 
4293449|Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers were utilized for screening the clonal fidelity of in vitro-raised bulblets of Lilium sp. (Asiatic hybrids) produced through adventitious mode of propagation. The first set of 14 bulblets was randomly chosen from about 175 micropropagated bulblets regenerated from
4293611|Callus induction and later plant regeneration were studied in four widely grown garlic (Allium sativum L.) cultivars from Europe. Root segments from in vitro plantlets were used as starting material. In addition to cultivar effects, the effects of auxin and cytokinin levels and the position of the segments on the root were studied. There were no statistically significant differences among cultivars for the number of root segments that induced callus in the two series of experiments. The average induction frequency was 34.7% in the first series of experiments. Callus induction on apical root segments was significantly higher compared to callus induction on non-apical root segments in the second series of experiments. Two months after callus induction, callus lines were transferred to a regeneration medium consisting of Murashige and Skoog basal medium supplemented with
29736212|Herbicide (Basta)-tolerant Vigna mungo L. Hepper plants were produced using cotyledonary-node and shoot-tip explants from seedlings germinated in vitro from immature seeds. In vitro selection was performed with phosphinothricin as the selection agent. Explants were inoculated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 (harboring the binary vector pME 524 carrying the nptII, bar, and uidA genes) in the presence of acetosyringone. Shoot regeneration occurred for 6 wk on regeneration medium (MS medium with 4.44 M benzyl adenine, 0.91 M thidiazuron, and 81.43 M adenine sulfate) with 2.4 mg/l PPT, explants being transferred to fresh medium every 14 d. After a period on elongation medium (MS medium with 2.89 M gibberellic acid and 2.4 mg/l PPT), -glucuronidase-expressing putative transformants were rooted in MS medium with 7.36 M indolyl butyric acid and 2.4 mg/l PPT. -Glucuronidase expression was observed in the primary transformants (T) and in the seedlings of the T generation. Screening 128 GUS-expressing, cotyledonary-node-derived, acclimatized plants by spraying the herbicide Basta at 0.1 mg/l eliminated nonherbicide-resistant plants. Southern hybridization analysis confirmed the transgenic nature of the herbicide-resistant plants. All the transformed plants were fertile, and the transgene was inherited by Mendelian genetics. Immature cotyledonary-node explants produced a higher frequency of transformed plants (7.6%) than shoot-tip explants (2.6%).
20461644|Up to 73% decrease in cost of media for plant regeneration and in vitro conservation was achieved in Curcuma longa cv Prathibha by using inexpensive carbon source and gelling agent. Laboratory reagent-grade sucrose was replaced by locally available commercial sugar (market sugar or sugar cubes) as carbon source and bacteriological grade agar by isabgol (also named isubgol) as gelling agent. No adverse effects on shoot regeneration and conservation on isabgol-gelled low-cost media were observed as compared to that on agar-gelled control medium (CM). Some 33-56% cultures of C. longa survived up to 12 mo. on isabgol-gelled medium in comparison to only 16% on CM. Genetic stability of 12-month-old in vitro-conserved plants was assessed using 25 random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) primers; no significant variation was observed in RAPD profiles of mother plants and in vitro-conserved plantlets on CM and low-cost media.
4293434|A wide range of microorganisms (filamentous fungi, yeasts, bacteria, viruses and viroids) and micro-arthropods (mites and thrips) have been identified as contaminants in plant tissue cultures. Contaminants may be introduced with the explant, during manipulations in the laboratory or by micro-arthropod vectors. Contaminants may express themselves immediately or can remain latent for long periods of time. This often makes it difficult to identify the source of contamination. Disinfection protocols have now been developed for a wide range of plant species including those infected with viruses/viroids or endophytic bacteria. They may include the selection of pathogen-free donor plants or donor plant treatments such as thermotherapy. Also microbiological quality assurance systems (e.g. Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point; HACCP procedures) have been adapted to the needs of commercial plant tissue culture laboratories. These are aimed at preventing the introduction of pathogens into tissue cultures at establishment and in the laboratory. In established in vitro cultures preventative strategies have proved to be essential, since it is extremely difficult to eliminate environmental bacterial and fungal contaminants using antibiotics and fungicides. In many cases anti-microbial treatments only inhibit contaminants and low levels of contamination persist. In particular, the use of antibiotics against Gram-negative bacteria (including plant pathogenic bacteria and Agrobacterium tumefaciens vector systems used in genetic engineering) has been shown frequently to be extremely difficult or unsuccessful. Detection of latent contamination may involve the use of general and semi-selective microbial growth media or serological and PCR-based molecular techniques for specific pathogens. However, it is often difficult to detect low numbers of latent bacterial contaminants (e.g. levels present following antibiotic treatment or when acidified plant media are used). This poses a particular risk in the production of transgenic plants where the elimination or detection of Agrobacterium tumefaciens-based vector systems cannot be guaranteed with the currently available methodologies. Recent research has also shown that there is a risk of the transmission of human pathogens in plant tissue cultures.
20461532|Forage and turf grasses are critical to sustainable agriculture and contribute extensively to the world economy. Tremendous progress has been made in genetic transformation of forage and turf grasses in the past decade. The rapid advancement of cellular and molecular biology and transgenic technology provides novel methods to accelerate and complement conventional breeding efforts. This review summarizes the latest developments in genetic transformation methods and the applications of molecular techniques for the improvement of forage and turf grasses.
4293531|Continuous axillary shoot proliferation and in vitro flowering were achieved using single node explants from a mature (over 70-yr-old) field clump of Dendrocalamus giganteus (giant bamboo). The shoots proliferated in a basal Murashige and Skoog medium with
4293252|The efficient exchange of gases between roots and their environment is one of the biggest challenges in bioreactor design for transformed root cultures. Gas-phase reactors can alleviate this problem as well as provide a new tool for studying the biological response of roots and other differentiated tissues to changes in the gas phase composition. In our comparison of liquid- and gas-phase reactors, roots grown in liquid (shake flasks or bubble column reactors) are shown to be under hypoxic stress. Roots grown in a gas-phase reactor (nutrient mist), while not hypoxic, produced 50% less biomass. These results suggest that the response of the tissues to gas phase composition are complex and need further study.
4293598|Novel elongated fiber-structures were repeatedly found both in leaf protoplast culture of two clones of Betula platyphylla and in protoplast culture of embryogenic cells of Larix leptolepis. Suboptimum culture conditions for cell division appeared to lead to fiber formation when using multi-well plate culture with varying medium compositions. The suboptimum conditions for cell divisions were brought about by (1) plant growth regulators: auxins and cytokinins; (2) pH: 3.5, 4.5, 5.8; (3) divalent cations: CaCl
20461719|Embryogenic avocado cultures derived from 'Hass' protoplasts were genetically transformed with the plant defensin gene (pdf1.2) driven by the CaMV 35S promoter in pGPTV with uidA as a reporter gene and bar, the gene for resistance to phosphinothricin, the active ingredient of the herbicide Finale (Basta) (Bayer Environmental Science, Research Triangle Park, Durham, NC). Transformation was mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105. Transformed cultures were selected in the presence of 3.0 mg l phosphinothricin in liquid maintenance medium for 3-4 mo. Liquid maintenance medium consisted of modified MS medium containing (per liter) 12 mg NHNO and 30.3 mg KNO and supplemented with 0.1 mg l thiamine HCl, 100 mg l myo-inositol, 30 g l sucrose, 3.0 mg l phosphinothricin, and 0.41 M picloram. Somatic embryo development from transformed cultures was initiated on MS medium supplemented with 45 g l sucrose, 4 mg l thiamine HCl, 100 mg l myo-inositol, 10% (v/v) filter-sterilized coconut water, 3.0 mg l phosphinothricin, and 6.0 g l gellan gum. Limited plant recovery occurred from somatic embryos on semi-solid MS medium supplemented with 3.0 mg l phosphinothricin, 4.44 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA), and 2.89 M GA; transformed shoots were micrografted on in vitro-grown seedling root-stocks. Approximately 1 yr after acclimatization in the greenhouse, transformed shoots were air-layered to recover transformed roots. Genetic transformation of embryogenic cultures, somatic embryos, and regenerated plants was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), Southern blot hybridization, the XGLUC reaction for uidA, and application of the herbicide Finale to regenerated plants.
4293415| Verbascum thapsus L. is a medicinal herb and has been used to treat inflammatory disease, asthma, spasmodic coughs and migraine headaches. Studies were initiated to establish an in vitro culture protocol for V. thapsus. Explants (leaf discs, petioles and roots) were cultured on Murashige and Skoog minimal organics (MSMO) medium with benzyladenine (BA) or kinetin. Best shoot proliferation was obtained from leaf disc and petiole explants at 13.32 M BA. Leaf discs were cultured on MSMO medium with 13.32 M BA in combination with naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). More shoot development was obtained with 13.32 M BA and 5.37 M NAA. Shoots were transferred to rooting media containing different levels of NAA and 2,4-D. Most of the shoots formed roots on media with 5.37 M NAA. Plants were transferred to vermiculite and subsequently to potting media and maintained in the greenhouse. 
4293620|Hosta 'Blue Vision', a shade-adapted perennial, was successfully acclimatized in high, natural light conditions in the research Acclimatron[TRADE MARK SIGN] at Clemson University, Clemson, SC during the summer of 2000. The supplemental CO
20461574|Inflorescence proliferation is a plant tissue culture technique that can be used to obtain in vitro inflorescences year-round without the intervening development of vegetative organs. In this study, we used albino mutant inflorescences of Dendrocalamus latiflorus as the original explant material to investigate the effect of plant growth regulators on long-term inflorescence proliferation. The albino inflorescences proliferated on solidified Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with thidiazuron (TDZ), and the optimal concentration for successful long-term inflorescence proliferation was 0.45 M TDZ. A combination of -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) with 0.45 M TDZ inhibited the inflorescence proliferation. Inflorescences cultured on a TDZ-free medium supplemented with 26.82 M NAA rooted in 21 d, vegetative shoots formed by 42 d and, in one case, flowering occurred after 63 d. The auxins 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D, 4.52 M) and picloram (4.14 M) induced shoot formation. The protocol described can be used to produce large numbers of mutant inflorescences within a relatively short period of time.
4293726| Somatic embryogenesis was induced from suspension cultures (derived from leaf callus) of an important medicinal plant, Plumbago rosea L. While acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) alone induced embryogenesis, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) failed to elicit a similar response. This is the first time that ASA-induced somatic embryogenesis has been reported in cultured cells. Optimal embryogenic response per culture was observed in Murashige and Skoog's medium containing a combination of ASA (8.32 M) and IAA (5.06 M), but 1-naphthaleneacetic acid and indole-3-butyric acid individually did not induce somatic embryogenesis. Increase in the concentration of ammonium enhanced the number of embryos formed per culture. Accumulation of plumbagin, an important naphthoquinone and a medicinal compound, was three times higher in embryogenic compared to non-embryogenic suspensions. 
4292960|The effects of light spectral quality on the growth of in vitro nodal cuttings of potato (Solarium tuberosum L.) cultivars Norland, Superior, Kennebec, and Denali were examined. The different light spectra were provided by Vita-Lite fluorescent (VF) (a white light control), blue fluorescent (BF), red fluorescent (RF), low-pressure sodium (LPS), and a combination of low-pressure sodium plus cool-white fluorescent lamps (LPS/CWF). For all cultivars, stem lengths after 4 wk were longest under LPS, followed by RF, LPS/CWF, VF, and BF (in descending order). Microscopic studies revealed that cells were shortest when cultured in BF or VF environments, and were longest in RF or LPS lamp environments. The highest number of axillary branches occurred on plantlets grown with LPS or LPS/CWF, whereas the lowest number occurred with BF. No leaf or stem edema (callus or gall-like growths) occurred with LPS or LPS/CWF lighting, and no edema occurred on cv. Norland plantlets, regardless of lighting. Results suggest that shoot morphologic development of in vitro grown potato plants can be controlled by controlling irradiant spectral quality.
4293132|Excised tomato roots (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill, cv Bonny Best) were cultured in the presence of mannitol to determine the effects of varying degrees of mild water deficit on their developmental growth. It was found that over the 7-d culture period, the cultured roots could regulate their own developmental responses to the water deficit such that elongation of the primary root axis was favored over that of the lateral roots. Higher degrees of water deficit proportionately decreased lateral root number and density, but lateral root primordia (visualized by clearing roots in chromium trioxide) continued to be formed in water-stressed roots. Measurements of water and osmotic (solute) potentials of the root tips showed that the cultured roots osmoregulated and did not suffer a loss in turgor pressure as a result of the mannitol treatments. However, reciprocal transfer experiments showed that root cultures were unable to resume growth after removal from water deficit conditions, thus indicating a probable requirement for the shoot for complete recovery.
40981327|The Balkan endemic species, Hypericum rumeliacum, Guttiferae was introduced in vitro for the first time with the aim to study the type of morphogenetic response to plant growth regulators and ability to produce phenolics and flavonoid compounds. The morphoregulatory effect of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 1-naphtaleneacetic acid (NAA), 6-benzyladenine (BA) and combination of lamina, internode stem segment, stem node and root cuttings was studied. Histological analysis of the structures regenerated from the primary expiants proved the presence of both, embryoids and meristemoids. The node expiants cultivated on BA-supplemented medium were the most favourable for regeneration through meristemoids. Therefore a double-stage culture approach, allowing an effective multiplication of large quantities of plant shoots in vitro along with maintenance of the biosynthetic capacity of the culture was developed. It comprised one subculture of three-nodal stem expiants derived from the stock shoot cultures on MS medium supplemented with 0.2 mg/1 BA followed by subculture of the induced multiple shoots on cytokinin-free MS medium. Determination of the total phenolics and flavonoids showed that the decrease of the levels of these secondary metabolites is transitional, as the exclusionof BA from the medium resulted in an increase of their total content.
24596338|Abnormal physiological responses of plant cultures such as shoot tip necrosis, callus, and hyperhydricity are some of the most difficult challenges in shoot micropropagation, and their causes are not well understood. Five Murashige and Skoog mineral salt factors, which influence the growth of pear shoot cultures, were tested in a five-dimensional surface response experimental design. Pyrus communis 'Old Home  Farmingdale 87,' 'Horner 51,' and 'Winter Nelis'; Pyrus dimorphophylla; and Pyrus ussuriensis 'Hang Pa Li' shoot cultures were grown on 43 computer-designed treatments to represent the design space of all possible treatment combinations. Analysis of shoot response to these treatments identified the factors that both contributed to physiological disorders and remedied them. Undesirable callus formation was common for pear shoots cultured on standard medium and decreased on formulations with increased NHNO, Fe, and mesos (CaCl, KHPO, and MgSO) for most genotypes. Shoot tip necrosis varied with the genotype, but low mesos or low nitrogen concentrations contributed to the necrosis. Hyperhydricity was more prominent with low mesos or low NHNO. Hooked and upwardly curled new leaves were seen in most genotypes and resulted from use of low mesos in P. communis and low nitrogen for 'Hang Pa Li' and P. dimorphophylla. Fasciation and hypertrophy were seen infrequently and resulted from wide imbalances in several nutrients simultaneously. In general, standard concentrations of Murashige and Skoog iron and micros combined with high mesos and moderate nitrogen compounds produced normal shoots without physiological disorders.
4293692|The regal pelargonium, cv. Dubonnet, was transformed using the disarmed Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains LBA4404 or EHA105 containing the binary vector pLN70. This plasmid carries on its T-DNA the rolC gene from Agrobacterium rhizogenes under control of the CaMV 35S promoter and the npt II selectable marker gene under a NOS promoter. Six independent transformants were produced and grouped according to their phenotypic characteristics. Two transformants showed the same phenotype as the untransformed control plants. Three transformants exhibited a dwarf phenotype and one displayed a super-dwarf phenotype. Southern hybridization analyses of the T-DNA left border region using a npt II probe showed that the six transformants all arose from independent transformation events. Northern hybridization analyses showed that the rolC gene was expressed only in the four transformants that exhibited a dwarf phenotype. Our data show that the phenotypic effects of rolC expression in regal pelargoniums include reductions in plant height, leaf area, petal area, and corolla length. Earlier flowering of the rolC transgenics by up to 22 d was also observed.
4293111|The accumulation of ethylene in headspace of hypocotyl cultures of geranium (Pelargonium x hortorum Bailey) and its possible role in thidiazuron-mediated somatic embryogenesis was investigated. The action of ethylene as determined by various ethylene synthesis and action inhibitors was varied. Silver nitrate (
20064953|A genetic transformation method using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 and based on the neomycin phosphotransferase II (nptII) selectable marker gene is described for a cultivar of florists' chrysanthemum, Dendranthema Xgrandiflorum 'Peach Margaret.' We used the flavonoid regulatory cDNA, Leaf color (Lc) from the monocot Zea mays (maize), under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, to test if it would serve as a visible, nondestructive pigmentation reporter of transformation in chrysanthemum and to see if we could modify floral and leaf pigmentation. Stable integration of the maize Lc cDNA in 'Peach Margaret' was confirmed by Southern DNA analysis. However, no Lc RNA transcripts were detected and no increase in pigmentation was observed in the transformants. In contrast, activity of the nptII transgene in the transformants was confirmed by production of roots in the presence of 20 mg/l kanamycin and challenging leaf explants to regenerate shoots in the presence of 25 mg/l kanamycin. This is the first reported method based on Agrobacterium tumefaciens for genetic transformation of cultivar 'Peach Margaret'.
20065008|Parameters enhancing Agrobacterium-mediated transfer of foreign genes to peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) cells were investigated. An intron-containing -glucuronidase uidA (gusA) gene under the transcriptional control of CaMV 35S promoter served as a reporter. Transformation frequency was evaluated by scoring the number of sectors expressing GUS activity on leaf and epicotyl explants. The 'Valencia Select' market type cv. New Mexico was more amenable to Agrobacterium transformation than the 'runner' market type cultivars tested (Florunner, Georgia Runner, Sunrunner, or South Runner). The disarmed Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA101 was superior in facilitating the transfer of uidA gene to peanut cells compared to the disarmed strain C58. Rinsing of explants in half-strength Murashige-Skoog (MS) media prior to infection by Agrobacterium significantly increased the transformation efficiency. The use of cocultivation media containing high auxin [1.0 or 2.5 mg/l (4.53 M or 11.31 M) 2,4-D] and low cytokinin [0.25 or 0.5 mg/l (1.0 M or 2.0 M) BA] promoted higher transformation than either hormone-free or thidiazuron-containing medium. The polarity of the epicotyl during cocultivation was important; explants incubated in an inverted (vertically) manner followed by a vertically upright position resulted in improved transformation and shoot regeneration frequencies. Preculture of explants in MS basal medium or with 2.5 mg thidiazuron per 1 prior to infection drastically decreased the number of transformed zones. The optimized protocol was used to obtain transient transformation frequencies ranging from 12% to 36% for leaf explants, 15% to 42% for epicotyls. Initial evidence of transformation was obtained by polymerase chain reaction and subsequently confirmed by Southern analysis of regenerated plants.
4293160| Mature embryo axes of the Ohio buckeye were germinated on a medium containing 1 mg gibberellic acid (GA) per l. Three wk following germination, stem, petiole, and leaf blade tissues were excised and placed on media containing either 1 mg (4.5 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4-D) per l, 1 mg (4.7 M) kinetin per l, 1 mg of both 2,4-D (4.5 M) and kinetin (4.7 M) per l, or 2 mg of both 2,4-D (9.1 M) and kinetin (9.3 M) per l. Embryogenic tissue was formed only from stem segments after 2-3 mo. of culture on media containing both 2,4-D and kinetin. Embryogenic tissue could be either maintained on solid medium for proliferation of embryogenic callus or placed in liquid medium for proliferation of embryogenic suspension cultures. For transformation of suspension cultures, tissues were inoculated with Agrobacterium EHA105 containing the binary plasmid Vec035, briefly sonicated, and cultured in the presence of 100 M acetosyringone for 2 d. To eliminate Agrobacterium, tissues were washed and placed in liquid proliferation medium containing either 500 mg Cefotaxime per l or 400 mg Timentin per l. Selection on 20 mg hygromycin per l was initiated 2 wk after inoculation, and after an additional 10 wk, hygromycin-resistant tissue was isolated and separately cultured. Although some hygromycin-resistant clones were recovered with no sonication treatment, four to five times more clones were obtained following sonication. Putative transformed clones were confirmed to be transgenic via both histochemical -glucuronidase (GUS) assay and southern hybridization analyses. Development of transgenic embryos occurred on a growth regulator-free medium containing 3% sucrose. After 2 mo. of embryo development, the embryos were transferred to fresh medium for germination. 
42568433|A genetic transformation method via secondary somatic embryogenesis was developed for alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.). Mature somatic embryos of alfalfa were infected by Agrobacterium strain GV3101 containing the binary vector pCAMBIA2301. pCAMBIA2301 harbors the uidA Gus reporter gene and npt II acts as the selectable marker gene. Infected primary embryos were placed on SH2K medium containing plant growth regulators to induce cell dedifferentiation and embryogenesis under 75 mg/L kanamycin selection. The induced calli were transferred to plant medium free of plant growth regulators for embryo formation while maintaining selection. Somatic embryos germinated normally upon transfer to a germination medium. Plants were recovered and grown in a tissue culture room before transfer to a greenhouse. Histochemical analysis showed high levels of GUS activity in secondary somatic embryos and in different organs of plants recovered from secondary somatic embryos. The presence and stable integration of transgenes in recovered plants were confirmed by polymerase chain reaction using transgene-specific primers and Southern blot hybridization using the npt II gene probe. The average transformation efficiency achieved via secondary somatic embryogenesis was 15.2%. The selection for transformation throughout the cell dedifferentiation and embryogenie callus induction phases was very effective, and no regenerated plants escaped the selection procedure. Alfalfa transformation is usually achieved through somatic embryogenesis using different organs of developed plants. Use of somatic embryos as explants for transformation can avoid the plant development phase, providing a faster procedure for introduction of new traits and facilitates further engineering of previously transformed lines.
4293718|A protocol for in vitro propagation using direct induction of shoot buds from leaf explants of in vitro-raised shoots of Rosa damascena var. Jwala is reported. The present study is the first report on direct shoot regeneration in scented roses. Elite plants raised from nodal explants and maintained for over 2 yr in vitro on a static liquid shoot multiplication Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
42568815|Somatic embryogenesis of Abies alba (Mill.) has significant potential to become an effective method for vegetative propagation of this species. To induce somatic embryogenesis in A. alba, the influence of the mother tree, sampling dates, and cold treatment storage of cones were examined. The initiation frequencies ranged from 1.7% to 16.6%. The sampling date and cone storage, but not the mother tree, had a significant effect on the initiation of embryogenic cultures. Storage of embryogenic cell lines was tested through cryopreservation for 6 yr. Four out of 12 cryostored embryogenic cell lines recovered, and the regeneration of cotyledonary embryos was obtained with two cell lines. The ability of embryogenic cell masses to produce somatic embryos and the mean number of cotyledonary embryos were higher when the maturation protocol was based on embryogenic suspensions dispersed on filter paper. The properly developed germinants were obtained only from maturation media where 32 M abscisic acid was used, being 16.2% when polyethylene glycol (PEG) was not present and 1.8% when supplemented with 10% (w/v) PEG, respectively. The present study provides evidence that it is possible to cryopreserve A. alba embryogenic cultures while maintaining their maturing ability for the lengthy period (6 yr) needed for progeny testing of field-grown trees. Therefore, our findings are important for further studies and advanced breeding work of the species; however, the conversion of germinants into ex vitro conditions still remains a significant challenge.
20064965|Genomic DNA was isolated from in vitro Pinus radiata seedlings with five DNA isolation protocols commonly used for pines. The methods described by Jobes et al. (1995) and Nelson et al. (1994) utilize sodium dodecyl sulfate, whereas those of Murray and Thompson (1980), Doyle and Doyle (1990), and Devey et al. (1996) use cetyltrimethyl ammonium bromide for cell lysis. The quality and quantity of the isolated DNA was measured and compared. Lithium chloride was found to be more effective than RNase for minimizing the amount of RNA present in the solution. Protocols described by Jobes et al. (1995) and Devey et al. (1996) yielded a large quantity of pure DNA which was suitable for restriction enzyme digestion and polymerase chain reaction amplification. With these methods, 37 to 79 g of DNA with an
23326880|Several factors influencing micropropagation of a selected elite clone of Eucalyptus tereticornis Sm. were investigated. Amongst different cytokinins tested, 6-benzyleadenine proved to be the most effective cytokinin for shoot multiplication and elongation. The initial size of the shoot clump (inoculum) also influenced shoot multiplication and elongation. The number of shoots proliferated per culture vessel were significantly higher (342 shoots per culture vessel) when larger shoot clumps (1520 shoots) were inoculated, compared to smaller shoot clumps (45 shoots), which resulted in a reduced shoot proliferation rates (245 shoots per culture vessel). However, the number of elongated shoots (65 per culture vessel) and shoot length (5.23 cm) were higher in cultures which were inoculated with smaller shoot clumps in comparison to those cultures which were inoculated with larger shoot clumps (54 shoots per culture vessel with shoot length of 4.17 cm). The maximum number of rooted shoots (80.7 %) was obtained on one fourth-strength MS medium supplemented with 5.0 M indolebutyric acid. The number of shoots proliferated, elongated, rooting frequency, and subsequent survival of plants after acclimatization were higher in cultures incubated under photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) compared to those incubated under cool fluorescent lights (CFL). Osmotic potential of the sap and chlorophyll content of cultures incubated under PAR were also higher than those incubated under CFL. Following transfer of plants to soil, inoculation with a suspension of Bacillus subtilis (plant growth-promoting bacterium) increased the survival rate of plants by 10 %, yielding successful transfer of 84 % of plants. Random amplified polymorphic DNA and inter simple sequence repeat analyses indicated a high level of clonal uniformity amongst regenerated plants and also with that of the mother plant.
20064867|The objective of the present study on banana plants (Musa AAA Grande Naine cv.), obtained by in vitro shoot tip culture, was to determine whether modifications in chromosome number could account for the appearance of the off-types with mosaiclike leaf defects or dwarf stature, the most frequent off-types observed after micropropagation. Chromosome counts were conducted on shoot tip samples treated with 8-hydroxyquinoline, digested in pectinase and stained with Schiff's reagent. On average, 160 counts were made for each treatment. Four types of plant material were studied: phenotypically true-to-type plants, dwarf off types, mosaiclike off-types obtained by micropropagation, as well as true-to-type plants obtained by standard propagation techniques of suckers with no micropropagation history. Some cells from all four types of plant material were found to have an abnormal chromosome number (i.e., 2n = 3x = 33), characteristic of triploid bananas. The percentages of aneuploid cells were 14%, 22%, 35%, and 5%, respectively. Descending aneuploidy was noted in micropropagated plants derived from true-to-type and dwarf off-type suckers. The statistical analysis revealed that the two latter types of plant material had the same percentage of aneuploid cells. Thus, the dwarfism could not be correlated with a change in the chromosome number. Conversely, ascending aneuploidy was observed in the mosaiclike material, with 34 or 35 chromosomes in almost 28% of the cells. This percentage was significantly higher than in true-to-type plants and highlight the genetic origin of the mosaiclike variation.
29736224|Roots of Primula veris L. contain considerable amounts of triterpene saponins, which are used in medicine as expectorants. P. veris is in many places an endangered plant, and its production in the field is laborious and a low yielding process. Plant tissue culture provides an alternative means for producing secondary metabolites. Shoot apex, callus, suspension, and root cultures of P. veris were developed for saponin production. In these cultures, the content of triterpene saponins, with focus on primula acid I, the most dominant saponin in Primula species, was determined and compared to that in soil-grown plants. The highest content of primula acid I was observed in root cultures, on average 29.5 mg/g dry weight. Some culture lines contained higher amounts of primula acid I (62.6 mg/g dry weight) than the roots of plants grown in soil.
20540992|The in vivo activities of arginine and ornithine decarboxylases, key enzymes in the biosynthesis of putrescine and thus polyamines, were measured in three different cell lines of carrot (Daucus carota) during growth and somatic embryogenesis. The activities of these two enzymes differed in the different cell lines in the presence of various levels of auxin (2,4 dichlorophenoxy acetic acid), but was highest during periods of active cell division. During somatic embryo development, the activities of both enzymes were highest during globular stage formation. Thus, both enzymes were found to be active during growth and somatic embryogenesis and could contribute to polyamine biosynthesis.
20541032|The biofuel industry is rapidly growing because of increasing energy demand and diminishing petroleum reserves on a global scale. A multitude of biomass resources have been investigated, with high-yielding, perennial feedstocks showing the greatest potential for utilization as advanced biofuels. Government policy and economic drivers have promoted the development and commercialization of biofuel feedstocks, conversion technologies, and supply chain logistics. Research and regulations have focused on the environmental consequences of biofuels, greatly promoting systems that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and life-cycle impacts. Numerous biofuel refineries using lignocellulosic feedstocks and biomass-based triglycerides are either in production or pre-commercial development phases. Leading candidate energy crops have been identified, yet require additional efforts to realize their full potential. Advanced biofuels, complementing conventional biofuels and other renewable energy sources such as wind and solar, provide the means to substantially displace humanity's reliance on petroleum-based energy.
40793155|Canola is one of the most important cash crops in Canada, and a national project named "Designing Oilseeds for Tomorrow's Market" was undertaken to improve seed meal quality of this strategically important crop. As a part of this project, our group is focusing on identifying seed coat-specific promoters for canola (Brassica napus). These promoters will be used to genetically modify canola seed coat to reduce or eliminate anti-nutritional components from the meal. The Arabidopsis thaliana BAN promoter (AtBANpro) and VPE promoter (AtVPEpro) were isolated and fused to GUS reporter gene to generate transgenic canola plants. These plants were analyzed by GUS staining and microtome sectioning which showed that both promoters are seed coat-specific in canola: AtBANpro in inner seed coat layer and AtVPEpro in outer seed coat layer. Therefore, the two Arabidopsis promoters can be used to modify genes in seed coat of canola for further improving its seed qualities.
4293513| Using 15 Chinese and Japanese cultivars of sweetpotato, Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam., we succeeded in developing an efficient plant regeneration system from embryogenic suspension cultures. The embryogenic callus derived from shoot apices of the 15 cultivars was used to initiate embryogenic suspension cultures in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 9.05 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Rapidly proliferating and well-dispersed embryogenic suspension cultures were established. Cell aggregates 0.7-1.1 mm in size from embryogenic suspension cultures were transferred to solid MS medium supplemented with 9.05 M of 2,4-D and formed embryogenic callus with somatic embryos. The embryogenic callus with somatic embryos was further transferred to MS medium supplemented with 3.78 M of abscisic acid, resulting in the germination of somatic embryos. Within 20 wk after the initiation, the frequencies of cell aggregates forming plantlets reached approximately 100% for the 15 tested cultivars. These plantlets, when transferred to soil, showed 100% survival. No morphological variations were observed. 
24596339|Zeyheria montana Mart. has become endangered, primarily because of deforestation of its habitat, its use as a medicinal plant extract, and the strong endemism of the species. In this study, an efficient protocol was established for the micropropagation and conservation of Z. montana germplasm using isolated mature zygotic embryos as explants. Embryos germinated in vitro 4 d after isolation and inoculation on modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 2.0 mg/1 gibberellic acid (GA). The addition of GA also improved the germination index and accelerated the process of germination. Nodal segments from seedlings were placed on modified -strength MS medium containing 0.1 mg/1 6-benzyladenine and 0.5 mg/1 GA. Nodal segments produced 7.3 shoots per explant within 60 d. Following transfer of shoots to a medium containing 1.5 mg/1 indole-3-butyric acid, roots formed. All plantlets obtained were successfully acclimatized under greenhouse conditions, and approximately 68.5 acclimatized plants could be obtained per seed each year. This protocol provides a method to preserve this rare and endangered medicinal plant.
4293916|An efficient in vitro propagation system was developed for Arnebia euchroma, an important Chinese traditional medicinal plant. The present study utilized thidiazuron (TDZ) for the induction of shoot organogenesis on cotyledon and hypocotyl explants. The maximal number of shoots was obtained on the modified Linsmaier and Skoog (LS) medium supplemented with
23326877|The influence of various basal medium and plant growth regulators on the efficient micropropagation of nodal explants from mature trees of alemow, sour orange, and 'Cleopatra' mandarin citrus rootstocks was studied. All three citrus rootstock shoot cultures showed a preference for high-salt media, like Murashige and Skoog or Driver and Kuniyuki Walnut medium. Several combinations of N 6 -benzyladenine (BA) and adenine (AD), kinetin (KIN) or gibberellic acid (GA) were tested to optimize the shoot proliferation phase. BA/GA combinations improved the proliferation of all the rootstocks studied, especially alemow. The addition of BA and AD to the culture medium improved shoot proliferation in sour orange and 'Cleopatra' mandarin in the same way as BA and GA. The addition of different combinations of BA/KIN did not result in further improvement of any of the studied variables. The transfer of in vitro shoots to rooting media, containing different concentrations of indolebutyric acid (IBA) and indoleacetic acid (IAA), resulted in regeneration of complete plantlets. Alemow and 'Cleopatra' mandarin shoots rooted well using these plant growth regulators; however, all combinations of IBA and IAA tested resulted in very low rooting percentages in sour orange. To improve rooting in sour orange and 'Cleopatra' mandarin, different combinations of naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and IBA were tested. All NAA/IBA combinations produced higher rooting percentages than did the IBA/IAA combinations, and in sour orange nearly 100 % of explants developed roots. An efficient and simple protocol for the micropropagation of three citrus rootstocks, alemow, 'Cleopatra' mandarin, and sour orange, by culturing nodes from mature plants, has been established.
4293645| Factors affecting in vitro shoot production and regeneration of Cercis yunnanensis Hu et Cheng were investigated by comparing various growth regulators and explant types. For optimum shoot production from axillary buds, Murashige and Skoog (MS) media containing 6-benzyladenine, either alone or in combination with a low concentration of thidiazuron, resulted in the greatest number of shoots formed per explant (>3). Explants (2 mm long) containing one axillary bud placed in direct contact with the medium yielded the most shoots per bud (1.6) when grown on growth regulator-free medium. Root formation on 70-80% of shoot explants was accomplished using either indole-3-butyric acid or -naphthaleneacetic acid in the medium, with significantly more roots formed on explants possessing an apical bud than those without the bud. Direct shoot organogenesis from leaf explants occurred on MS medium containing 10-30 M thidiazuron, with up to 42% of leaf explants producing shoots. 
4293918|Structure and ultrastructure changes that occurred during tissue culture of upper explants of hypocotyl (adjacent to cotyledons) of 10-d-old seedlings of Gentiana cruciata were studied. The explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog induction medium supplemented with
23321149|Since the first report of wheat transformation in the early 1990s, genetic engineering of wheat has evolved rapidly. Several laboratories worldwide have reported the production of fertile transgenic wheat plants using a variety of methods. While there are several innovative and promising approaches for wheat transformation using different explants as targets for transformation, different methods of transformation, and different selection schemes, the most common approach to wheat transformation is the bombardment of tissue derived from immature embryos followed by selection based on resistance to the bar gene. Even with all these successful reports, hurdles still exist for this recalcitrant crop. Of these hurdles, low transformation rates, tools for transgene expression, and transgene silencing in subsequent generations are probably the most critical. This review will provide an overview of wheat transformation in the past decade, addressing both positive and negative factors that effect transformation while highlighting the successes of the past and prospects for the future.
4293253|Image analysis tools were developed to measure biomass concentration, aggregate size and distribution, and pigmentation from anthocyanin-producing cell suspension cultures of ohelo (Vaccinium pahalae). The ex situ imaging system could image cell aggregates from 30  m to 2 mm in diameter. The image analysis algorithm was based on extracted geometric features and morphological methods for biomass volume estimates, and hue, saturation, and intensity color characteristics for pigmentation estimates. Detailed information available from sampled cell culture images was validated by comparison to standard destructive manual measurements. Image analysis measurements revealed that pigment accumulation was negatively correlated with aggregate size. Although a substantial proportion of small aggregates remained colorless, the highly-pigmented small aggregates, 18 to
20461737|Leaf piece explants of five Brassica juncea (L.) Czern. cultivars were transformed with an Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105 harboring the plasmid pCAMBIA1301, which contains the -glucuronidase (uidA) and hygromycin phosphotransferase (hpt) genes under the control of cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (CaMV35S) promoter. Transgenic plants were regenerated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium fortified with 8.87 M 6-benzylaminopurine, 0.22 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, and 20 M silver nitrate in the presence of 30 mg/l hygromycin. When co-culture took place in the presence of 100 M acetosyringone, the efficiency of stable transformation was found to be approximately 19% in the T generation, with the transgenic plants and their progeny showing constitutive GUS expression in different plant organs. Southern blot hybridization of uidA and hpt genes confirmed transgene integration within the genome of transformed plants of each cultivar. Inheritance of hpt gene for single copy T-DNA inserts showed a 3:1 pattern of Mendelian segregation in progeny plants through germination of T seeds on MS medium containing 30 mg/l hygromycin. The protocol described here reports superior transformation efficiency over previously published protocols and should contribute to enhanced biotechnology applications in B. juncea.
4293728|Christmas bush (Ceratopetalum gummiferum Sm) is a shrubby tree species of the east coast of New South Wales in Australia. It is much prized as a cut flower crop because of its bright, pinky red floral calyces. New varieties are being developed, the storage of which is an important issue. In this study, it was shown that shoot tips sampled from in vitro plantlets withstood cryopreservation using the encapsulation-dehydration technique. The protocol leading to optimal regrowth was the following: excised shoot tips were pretreated for 1 d in the dark on hormone-free Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 0.3 M sucrose, then encapsulated in 3% calcium alginate and precultured in liquid MS medium with 0.5 M sucrose for 3 d. Precultured beads were dehydrated for 6 h in the air current of the laminar flow cabinet to 24.3% moisture content (fresh weight basis) before rapid immersion in liquid nitrogen. Under these conditions, regrowth of shoot tips after cryopreservation reached 61.4%. Regrowth of cryopreserved shoot tips was not affected by the period of cold acclimation of in vitro mother plants.
4293456| Somatic embryos of sweet potato have potential as synthetic seeds. The effects of abscisic acid (ABA) (0.0, 0.1, 1.0, 10.0 and 50.0 M) were examined to improve synchrony and proliferation of somatic embryos. Transferring embryonic cultures at day 7 to solid medium with 0.1 or 1.0 M ABA produced more torpedo and cotyledonary somatic embryos compared to those cultures transferred at day 0. The development of embryos in suspension culture supplemented with ABA was poor. However, when calli proliferation cultures were in gelled medium and pulsed with 0.1 M ABA for 14 d, the number of somatic embryos increased. Proembryonic masses cultured in mannitol-containing medium (Y = -1.5 MPa) increased embryo development and synchrony of embryo development. Thus, in this work ABA and mannitol have been shown to improve both the total number and the synchrony of sweet potato somatic embryos. 
23321166|Ten cultivars of tomato were screened for their ability to produce shoots and shoot primordia on media containing a range of 6-benzyladenine (BA) concentrations (0.04.0 mgl-1; 0.017.7 M) in combination with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA; 0.0, 0.1, 0.2 mgl-1; 0.0, 0.57, 1.14 M, respectively). Both genotypes and growth regulator levels showed significant differences at  = 0.05. However, their interaction was not significantly different. A comparison of the mean number of shoots produced six cultivar classes, with UC82, UC97-3, Castlerock, Red Rock, and Peto86 producing the highest means. There were four cultivar frequency classes, the highest including cultivars Peto Rock (93.7%), Red Rock (93.7%), Peto86 (92.3%), and Strain B (90.7%). Growth regulator mean comparisons produced eight classes, the highest included three different BA/IAA combinations, with media containing 2.0 mgl-1 (8.87 M) BA and 0.2 mgl-1 (1.14 M) IAA giving the highest mean and frequency (94.1%). The effect of carbon source was studied using glucose, fructose, maltose, and sucrose at 3.0% concentration. Three high regenerating genotypes and four media were used in combination with each sugar. Sugars were significantly different with maltose giving the highest number of shoots (31.6) followed by glucose (20.9). Growth regulator means, sugargrowth regulator interaction, and cultivarsugar interaction were significant. A three-way interaction was nonsignificant. The effect of maltose and sucrose concentration (1.59.0%) showed the positive effect of maltose over sucrose in inducing shoots and in reducing loss rates of shoots on the regeneration media. Maltose at 1.5, 3.0, and 4.5% was the most effective. Six pH values (4.06.5) were used to test their effect on shoot induction in three cultivars (Peto86, UC97-3 and Castlerock). pH effects and cultivarpH interaction were not significant.
20541027|The BioEnergy Science Center, a nationally and internationally peer-reviewed center of leading scientific institutions and scientists, is organized and in operation as a U.S. Department of Energy Bioenergy Research Center. This Oak Ridge National Laboratory-led Center has members from top-tier universities, leading national labs, and private companies organized as a single project team, with each member chosen for its significant contributions in the Center's research focus areas. The recalcitrance of cellulosic biomass is viewed as (1) the most significant obstacle to the establishment of a cellulosic biofuels industry, (2) essential to producing cost-competitive fuels, and (3) widely applicable, since nearly all biofuels and biofeedstocks would benefit from such advances. The mission of the BioEnergy Science Center is to make revolutionary advances in understanding and overcoming the recalcitrance of biomass to conversion into sugars, making it feasible to displace petroleum with ethanol and other fuels.
4293926| -Zein is one of the seed storage proteins of maize that is high in methionine (Met). In alfalfa, the -zein gene driven by the CaMV 35S promoter showed an 8-fold lower level of transcript and protein when compared with the level in tobacco transformed with the same gene construct. The reporter gene (GUS) driven by the CaMV 35S promoter showed only a 4-fold difference between alfalfa and tobacco, suggesting that the expression of the -zein gene is posttranscriptionally regulated in alfalfa. Callus of alfalfa transformants with the -zein gene construct treated with exogenous Met, showed a significant increase in the -zein level, suggesting that free Met may be limiting in the synthesis of -zein in alfalfa. The introduction of the Arabidopsis thaliana cystathionine -synthase (AtCS) gene driven by the CaMV 35S promoter into alfalfa showed a significant increase in the level of free Met and its metabolite, S-methyl methionine (SMM), but not in the bound fraction. Coexpression of AtCS and -zein in alfalfa increased the level of -zein transcript and protein and decreased free Met, which suggests that the -zein is posttranscriptionally regulated by free Met. The expression of AtCS in tobacco did not produce a significant increase in free Met or SMM and coexpression of AtCS and -zein did not result in changes in the -zein level. The results demonstrate the efficacy of the synergistic approach of increasing both the sink and the source for increasing the levels of high Met -zein. 
40663775|Cell cultures of Ruta graveolens L. were used as a model system to study the relationship between cellular organization and furanocoumarin production. Relative contributions of individual cells were traced using a combination of biochemical and localization techniques in three types of cell cultures: dispersed, aggregated, and organized. The proportion of relative furanocoumarins produced varied with the organization level in cultures. Productive population in dispersed cell culture was 10% which increased to 17% and to 35% in aggregated and organized cell cultures, respectively. Large cell clusters accumulating furanocoumarins were restricted to organized cell cultures. In these lines, sites for psoralen, bergapten, and xanthotoxin accumulation were spatially separated from each other, which has been reported for the first time. Variation in production was due to change in relative size of productive population in the three types of cultures studied. A model has been proposed for differential furanocoumarin producing ability of cells based on differentiation levels.
4293752|The capacity of cultured plant tissues and cells to undergo morphogenesis, resulting in the formation of discrete organs or whole plants, has provided opportunities for numerous applications of in vitro plant biology in studies of basic botany, biochemistry, propagation, breeding, and development of transgenic crops. While the fundamental techniques to achieve in vitro plant morphogenesis have been well established for a number of years, innovations in particular aspects of the technology continue to be made. Tremendous progress has been made in recent years regarding the genetic bases underlying both in vitro and in situ plant morphogenesis, stimulated by progress in functional genomics research. Advances in the identification of specific genes that are involved in plant morphogenesis in vitro, as well as some selected technical innovations, will be discussed.
20541043|Cereals provide more than half the world population's calorific intake, and have a variety of other important uses as food and beverage ingredients, livestock feeds, and as sources of renewable energy and industrial components. The technology to genetically modify many important cereals is now well-established, thereby presenting new opportunities to produce cereals with enhanced quality and novel properties. In 2007, GM (genetically modified) maize with insect and herbicide resistance was grown on over 30 million hectares worldwide, yet to date, there are no GM cereals with enhanced or novel grain (end-use) qualities being grown in commercial farmers' fields. This review will discuss some of the latest GM technology developments reported to enhance the quality of cereals for food and other uses. Developments and opportunities involving gene manipulation for starch and protein quality, as well as non-starch polysaccharides, phenolic compounds and micronutrients will also be discussed. The current paucity of GM cereals with enhanced grain quality is not related to the absence of technological progress, rather it is the regulatory and consumer acceptance issues that have slowed the release of these crops.
4293136|Embryogenic nucellar cultures were established on B5 major salts, MS minor salts and organics,
4293725|The life table of a local strain of grape phylloxera was determined to evaluate the resistance of the most commonly used rootstocks: Ru140, R99, and 3309C, and one local variety 'Helwani'. The study was carried out by applying both in vitro dual culture and small root pieces testing systems. The results showed that there was a great variation in percentage mortality of immature stages, number of eggs laid, adult fertility, oviposition period, and developmental time between all tested rootstocks and the local variety, regardless of the applied testing systems. Based on the population prediction, Helwani would be a suitable host as it would be susceptible to the destructive insects in the field and the rootstocks would be resistant. However, Ru140 rootstock was more susceptible than R99 and 3309C rootstocks.
4293656| Efficient in vitro propagation of Ceropegia candelabrum L. (Asclepidaceae) through somatic embryogenesis was established. Somatic embryogenesis depended on the type of plant growth regulators in the callus-inducing medium. Friable callus, developed from leaf and internode explants grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 4.52 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), underwent somatic embryogenesis. Compared to solid media, suspension culture was superior and gave rise to a higher number of somatic embryos. Transfer of the friable callus developed on MS medium containing 4.52 M 2,4-D to suspension cultures of half- or quarter-strength MS medium with lower levels of 2,4-D (0.23 or 0.45 M) induced the highest number of somatic embryos, which developed up to the torpedo stage. Somatic embryogenesis was asynchronous with the dominance of globular embryos. About 100 mg of callus induced more than 500 embryos. Upon transfer to quarter-strength MS agar medium without growth regulators, 50% of the somatic embryos underwent maturation and developed into plantlets. Plantlets acclimatized under field conditions with 90% survival. 
20541050|Somatic embryogenesis and subsequent plant regeneration were established from hypocotyl and internode explants collected from in vitro-grown seedlings and in vitro-proliferated shoots, respectively. Somatic embryogenesis was significantly influenced by the types of auxin and cytokinin. Friable calluses with somatic embryos developed well in Murashige and Skoog basal (MS) medium supplemented with 0.8-8.8 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 2.0-8.0 M 2,4-dichlorophexoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The maximal frequency of embryogenic callus and somatic embryo formation were obtained when the MS medium was amended with 8.8 M BA and 4.0 M 2,4-D. The best embryo germination occurred in a hormone-free 1/2-MS medium. The highest percentage of shoot proliferation was observed in embryogenic calluses in MS medium containing 2.0 M BA and 1.0 M NAA. In vitro-grown shoots were rooted in MS medium with 0.5-2.0 M indole-3-butyric acid. Regenerants were transferred to vermiculite and successfully established under an ex vitro environment in garden soil.
20064807|Responses to low Fe were characterized in tissue cultures of Pyrus amygdaliformis and Cydonia oblonga (quince), two species used as rootstocks for pear. Cultured shoots and plantlets of P. amygdaliformis had a higher chlorophyll concentration and
4292961|Haworthia comptoniana specimens were cultured to determine how benzyladenine (BA) level and in vitro selection for shoot and callus production affected regeneration capacity and plant phenotype. Leaf expiants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium containing
4293781| The effect of abscisic acid (ABA) was evaluated during the maturation and germination of holm oak (Quercus ilex L.) somatic embryos. The addition of ABA to the culture medium significantly reduced unwanted recurrent embryogenesis in mature somatic embryos without affecting the germination of embryos subjected to stratification at 4C. Stratification at 4C for 2 mo. was the most efficient for stimulating somatic embryo germination of holm oak. The addition of 90 and 450 mM sucrose also improved germination, while higher sucrose concentrations were inhibitory. 
23321169|The importance of neem (Azadirachta indica A. Juss.) as a medicinal tree species has been acknowledged worldwide. Superior trees with desired traits such as high azadirachtin content have been identified and micropropagated. Somaclonal variants that may arise in vitro, however, pose limitations to large-scale micropropagation. It is, therefore, imperative to establish genetic uniformity of such plantlets by ensuring strict quality checks at various stages of in vitro culture. This is the first study that evaluates the applicability of amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) markers in establishing clonal fidelity of tissue culture(TC)-raised neem plants. Seven AFLP primer combinations generated a total of 334 amplified fragments across the mother plant, TC progenies, and other neem accessions that were included as controls. Two hundred and thirty-nine amplified fragments were monomorphic across the mother tree and its TC progenies. No extra band was detected in the TC plantlets that was absent in the mother tree, indicating that the TC plantlets regenerated through nodal explants are indeed true-to-type. Ninety-five AFLP fragments were detected in the controls, which allowed their discrimination from the elite mother tree and its TC progenies. Similarity matrix based on Jaccard's coefficient revealed that the pair-wise value between the mother tree and its TC plantlets was '1', indicating perfect similarity. Phenetic dendrogram based on UPGMA (unweighted pair group method of arithmetic averages) analysis further confirmed the true-to-type nature of TC progenies, since a tie was observed between the mother tree and its TC plantlets. On the contrary, the control neem accessions were distinct from the mother and its TC progenies. AFLP markers proved to be an ideal tool for routine analysis and certification of genetic fidelity of micropropagated plants prior to commercialization, especially in tree species because of their long generation time.
23321150|Poor adventitious root formation is a major obstacle in micropropagation and in conventional propagation. This paper reviews recent progress in the understanding of adventitious root formation as a developmental process focusing on the role of plant hormones and on the effect of rooting conditions on plant performance. Since the discovery of the rhizogenic effect of auxin ca. 70 yr ago, no new broadly applicable rooting treatments have been developed. Recent research, though, may lead to new rooting procedures. Application of wounding-related compounds may be effective in difficult-to-root crops. Furthermore, by adapting conditions during the propagation phase, microcuttings with an enhanced capability to root may be produced. These conditions include elongation of stems (by etiolation or double-layer culture) and repeated subculture (rejuvenation; i.e., transition from adult to juvenile). Data are presented that show that during tissue culture maturation (transition from juvenile to adult) also occurs. The conditions during the in vitro rooting treatment may have a tremendous effect on performance after transfer ex vitro. In particular, accumulation of ethylene during in vitro rooting may have a devastating effect. Addition of stress-protecting compounds during propagation or rooting in vitro may enhance the performance ex vitro.
41496510|Centella asiatica (Apiaceae) is an important medicinal herb used in a variety of herbal medicines worldwide. Although the whole plant contains important triterpenoids, a significant quantity of pharmacologically important phytochemicals collectively known as centellosides can be extracted from leaf tissues and not from other parts of this plant. Asiaticoside is one of the major centellosides and is used in holistic medicine for treating a variety of human ailments. Genotypes of C. asiatica of Indian origin accumulate significant quantities of asiaticoside in their roots, while genotypes from other continents contain insignificant quantities of this chemical. The main purpose of this study was to manipulate the leaf-derived callus of asiatica using a combination of plant growth regulators to generate a large quantity of adventitious roots. The presence of asiaticoside in callus and regenerated roots of asiatica was detected by thin layer chromatography as well as by high-performance liquid chromatography, and the accumulation of a significant quantity of asiaticoside was demonstrated by spectrophotometric analysis. The protocol developed for the regeneration of roots was simple, reproducible, and reliable for the possible commercial production of root biomass enriched for asiaticoside.
4293353| Maturation of somatic embryos of Pinus strobus L. was evaluated on media containing various types (agars and gellan gum), brands and concentrations of gelling agents in the presence of 80 M ABA and 0.09 M sucrose. The media were characterized with respect to gel strength, water potential and water availability. Embryogenic tissue and somatic embryos cultured on medium with various concentrations of gellan gum were used to determine their water potential (). Regardless of the type of gelling agent used, gel strength increased with gelling agent concentration and was critical to the maturation response. High gel strength was associated with reduced water availability from the medium to the cultures. The water potential of gelled maturation medium remained constant between 0.4 and 1.0% gellan gum. It is concluded that the embryogenic tissue was exposed to varying amounts of water at the onset of and during the culture period, and that the amount of water in the culture environment in turn influenced the maturation response. Cotyledonary somatic embryos derived from gellan gum medium of high gel strength had a lower  than somatic embryos matured on medium of lower gel strength. Once somatic embryos developed to the cotyledonary stage on the maturation medium, they were transferred to the germination medium. The germination frequency and the number of morphologically normal germinants were higher for somatic embryos matured on medium of high gel strength. Raising the concentration of the gelling agent in the maturation medium may be an alternative to the use of solutes to restrict water available to the embryogenic cultures. 
25623039|Pea (Pisum sativum L. cv. Espace) seeds directly cultured on thidiazuron (TDZ)-containing medium formed high numbers of shoots. The number of shoots per seedling depended on the concentration and duration of the TDZ treatment. The best treatment was 12-wk incubation on MS medium supplemented with 4 mg/l TDZ followed by 4-wk culture on MS medium supplemented with 0.5 mg/l benzylaminopurine (BA) and produced more than 400 shoots/seedling. Isolated shoots rooted at a high frequency on MS medium containing 2-3 mg/l indole-3-butyric acid and 2 mg/l -naphthalene acetic acid. In addition to the formation of shoots, bud-containing tissues (BCT) were formed at the cotyledonary nodes, shoot nodes, tendrils, stipules, and internodes. The BCT from the cotyledonary nodes and the shoot nodes was maintained in its pure state on MS medium supplemented with 4 mg/l TDZ by repeated culture. Shoot development was accomplished when the BCT were left on MS medium supplemented with 4 mg/l TDZ without subculture prior to transfer onto MS medium supplemented with 0.5 mg/l BA.
20064871|Plant regeneration was achieved from both a spontaneous clone (Bragana) and Brewer's Gold variety of Humulus lupulus. The results obtained for these two different genotypes were compared. The organogenic ability of petiole and stem segments was tested on three different basal media supplemented with 0.025 mg (0.14 M) indole-3-acetic acid/L and 2 mg (8.87 M) 6-benzylaminopurine (N-benzyladenine)/L. These conditions induced rather heterogeneous responses, which depended mainly on the explant source and the genotype. Because of the high organogenic competence revealed by the spontaneous clone on modified Murashige and Skoog medium, several hormones in different combinations were tested to optimize conditions for adventitious shoot regeneration in this clone. The best relation between the average shoot number/callus and the regeneration rate was achieved with 0.025 mg (0.14 M) indole-3-acetic acid/L and 2 mg (8.87 M) 6-benzylaminopurine/L or with 0.02 mg (0.11 M) indole-3-acetic acid/L and 1.5 mg (6.97 M) kinetin/L, which enabled 72 and 59% of regeneration, respectively. The regenerated plantlets could be acclimatized with 90% success.
42568803|Pear accessions and species show a broad response to tissue culture media due to the wide genetic diversity that exists in the available pear germplasm. An initial study of mineral nutrition using a systematic response surface approach with five Murashige and Skoog medium mineral stock solutions indicated that the mesos factor (CaCl, MgSO, and KHPO) affected most plant responses and genotypes, suggesting that additional studies were needed to further optimize these three mesos components for a wide range of genotypes. Short stature, leaf spots, edge necrosis, and red or yellow coloration were the main symptoms of poor nutrition in shoot cultures of 10 diverse pear genotypes from six species. A surface response experimental design was used to model the optimal factor and factor levels for responses that included overall quality, leaf character, shoot multiplication, and shoot height. The growth morphology, shoot length, and multiplication of these pear shoots could be manipulated by adjusting the mesos components. The highest quality for the majority of genotypes, including five P. communis cultivars, P. koehnei, P. dimorphophylla, and P. pyrifolia 'Sion Szu Mi', required higher concentrations (>1.2  to 2.5  ) of all the components than are present in Murashige and Skoog medium. 'Capital' (P. calleryana) required high CaCl and MgSO with low KHPO; for 'Hang Pa Li' (P. ussuriensis), low CaCl and moderate to low MgSO and KHPO produced high-quality shoots. Suitable combinations of the meso nutrients produced both optimum shoot number and shoot length in addition to general good plant quality.
23321163|Four cytokinins (CKs), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and its ester and amino conjugates, and abscisic acid (ABA) levels of two bromeliads, Ananas comosus (L.) Merril and Vriesea gigantea Gaudich., grown in 5 mM (NH)SO or urea as the sole nitrogen (N) form, were investigated. In both bromeliads, zeatin (Z) and zeatin riboside ([9R]Z) were the most abundant CKs. In A. comosus, CKs levels decreased drastically (12 times) after 7 and 30 d in media with ammonium and urea, respectively. After 3 d in media with N, V. gigantea CK levels decreased 30 and 20 times in the presence of ammonium and urea, respectively. N-starved A. comosus and V. gigantea exhibited similar ABA levels, but ABA decreased faster in V. gigantea when plants were transferred to media with N. Free IAA levels decreased until the 15th and 30th day when A. comosus was transferred to a medium with ammonium and urea, respectively. N-starved A. comosus amide, ester, and free IAA amounted to 81%, 14%, and 4%, respectively. There was a transient increase in the proportion of amide IAA and a corresponding decrease of the ester and the free IAA proportion when N-starved plants were transferred to media with N. The relationship between the internal hormonal patterns and the different ecological adaptations of the two bromeliads are discussed.
42568877|Varronia curassavica is cultivated for the production of an essential oil useful in the pharmaceutical industry for its strong anti-inflammatory effect. Despite a growing demand, only a few studies have evaluated alternative sources of obtaining plantlets or ways to increase the yield of essential oil from this species. Therefore, this study aimed to optimize the in vitro multiplication rate and analyze the histochemistry and sesquiterpene production potential of conventionally propagated V. curassavica plants, in vitro shoots, and acclimatized plants derived from in vitro shoots. For axillary bud proliferation, Murashige and Skoog medium was supplemented with 6-benzyladenine and thidiazuron alone or in combination with naphthalene acetic acid. Axillary bud proliferation was obtained from culture of nodal or apical segments on medium containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog salts without growth regulators. After 35 d of culture, an average of five buds developed per expiant. Elongation and rooting of shoots also occurred in this medium. After the transfer of rooted plants to ex vitro conditions, 100% of the plantlets survived. Histochemical analysis of leaf tissue showed the presence of lipids, acidic lipids, essential oil, phenols, and flavonoids. The essential oils from conventionally propagated and acclimatized plants were extracted by hydrodistillation and analyzed using gas chromatography. The essential oil from acclimatized plants had a similar profile to that from ex vitro plants, but with a higher concentration of the anti-inflammatory compound alpha-humulene.
4293836|In wild-type Scopolia parviflora (Solanaceae) tissues, only the roots express the enzyme putrescine N-methyltransferase (PMT; EC 2.1.1.53), which is the first specific precursor of the tropane alkaloids. Moreover, the tropane alkaloid levels were the highest in the root (
4293039|Lepidopteran insects are major defoliating pests of soybean in the southeastern United States. Soybean plants transgenic for a native cryIA(b) gene from Bacillus thuringiensis var. kurstaki HD-1 were obtained. Embryogenic cultures were induced by plating cotyledons on a Murashige and Skoog-based medium supplemented with 40 mg/liter of 2,4-dichloro-phenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). The embryogenic cultures were maintained in liquid medium containing 5 mg/liter 2,4-D. These cultures were subjected to microprojectile bombardment, followed by selection on 50 mg/liter hygromycin. Resistant embryogenic cell lines were transferred to growth regulator-free medium to permit recovery of mature somatic embryos. After a desiccation period, the somatic embryos were returned to growth regulator-free medium for conversion into plants. Southern hybridization analysis verified transformation. Feeding assays of T
20461664|A three-stage procedure for embryogenesis in Trachyspermum ammi was developed from cotyledon and cotyledonary node explants cultured in Murashige and Skoog (MS) liquid medium supplemented with 0.2 mg l 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Globular somatic embryos without intervening callus phase developed in 4 wk. The development of embryos to heart and torpedo stages required second-stage subculture of the explants (along with developing embryos) in liquid medium with lower concentrations of 2,4-D. Further development of embryos required a third-stage subculture in hormone-free liquid medium supplemented with 100 mg l casein hydrolysate. Regeneration of complete plantlets occurred after the fully developed somatic embryos were transferred to solidified half-strength MS medium supplemented with 1 mg l gibberellic acid.
23326884|The effects of L-phenylalanine (PHE) on cell growth and production of shikonin and its derivatives, acetylshikonin (ACS) and isobutyrylshikonin (IBS), in suspension cultures of Arnebia euchroma were examined. Supplementing media using PHE have been successfully utilized to enhance shikonin production in cell cultures of other species of Boraginaceae. L-Phenylalanine, the key compound in the phenylpropanoid pathway, is converted by phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL) to trans-cinnamic acid, which is the precursor of p-hydroxybenzoic acid (PHB). Coupling of PHB and geranyl pyrophosphate (derived from mevalonate pathway) by p-hydroxybenzoate-m-geranyltransferase leads later to biosynthesis of shikonins. The addition of 0.01 or 0.1 mM PHE to the culture medium stimulated cell proliferation, where the highest observed increase in fresh cell biomass (measured as a ratio of final weight to initial weight) was 12-fold, in contrast to an eightfold increase in control cultures. Whereas, growth media supplemented with 1 mM PHE markedly reduced the rate of cell growth (to only twofold). Precursor feeding had detrimental effects on both ACS and IBS production in all PHE-supplemented media. The highest total content (intracellular + extracellular) of the investigated red pigments (9.5 mg per flask) was detected in the control culture without PHE. ACS was the major component of the naphthoquinone fraction determined in cells and post-culture media. Shikonin itself was found only in the post-culture media from cultures supplemented with 0.01 or 0.1 mM PHE. Increases in PAL activity corresponded well with the accumulation of investigated naphthoquinones in control culture. However, peak PAL activity did not directly correlate with maximum production of shikonin derivatives. Cytotoxicity of extracts, prepared from the cells cultivated in the presence of PHE or in control cultures, was tested on three cancer cell lines: HL-60, HeLa, and MCF-7. The extracts prepared from the untreated control cultures proved to be the most potent against the examined cancer cell lines. The mean inhibitory concentration values were 0.3, 13, and 8 g ml -1 for the HL-60, HeLa, and MCF-7 cells, respectively.
4293843|Plant protoplasts provide an enabling technology to underpin aspects of development, physiology, and genetics. Reliable procedures are available to isolate and culture protoplasts from monocotyledons and dicotyledons. Several parameters influence the totipotency of protoplasts and their derived cells, particularly the source tissue, culture medium, and environmental factors. Novel approaches to maximize the efficiency of protoplast-to-plant systems include techniques already established for animal and microbial cells, such as electrostimulation and exposure of protoplasts to surfactants and artificial respiratory gas carriers, especially perfluorochemicals and hemoglobin. Somatic hybridization by protoplast fusion is undergoing a resurgence of interest, since it enables nuclear and cytoplasmic genomes to be combined at the interspecific and intergeneric levels without prior knowledge of gene location, or involvement of recombinant DNA technology. DNA uptake into protoplasts has applications in transient and stable transformation, including the generation of transplastomic plants of commercial importance in molecular pharming. Other applications of isolated protoplasts are in studies of membrane function, cell structure, and longer-term toxicological assessments. Despite the century that has elapsed since protoplasts were first isolated, they still make a significant contribution to many aspects of modern plant biotechnology.
20171608| Growth and physiological responses of date palm, Phoenix dactylifera L. cv. Barhee, callus to salinity stress were examined. Callus induced from shoot tips of offshoots was cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with NaCl at concentrations ranging from 0 to 225 mM, in consecutive increments of 25 mM. Data obtained after 6 wk of exposure to salt have shown a significant increase in callus proliferation in response to 25 mM NaCl, the lowest level tested, beyond which callus weight decreased. At 125 mM NaCl and higher, callus growth was nearly completely inhibited. Physiological studies on callus exposed to salt stress have shown an increase in proline accumulation in response to increased salinity. Proline accumulation was correlated to callus growth inhibition. Furthermore, increasing the concentration of NaCl in the culture medium generally resulted in a steady increase in Na and reduction in K concentrations. However, at 25 mM NaCl, the only level at which callus growth was significantly enhanced, an increase in K content was noted in comparison to the NaCl-free control. In response to increasing external NaCl level, the Na/K ratio increased. The Na/K ratio was positively correlated to proline accumulation and hence callus growth inhibition. This study provides an understanding of the response of date palm callus to salinity, which is important for future studies aimed at developing strategies for selecting and characterizing somaclonal variants tolerant to salt stress. 
4292982| All parts of leafy spurge seedlings can be regenerated when isolated and placed onto B5 medium. One-centimeter isolated hypocotyl segments were tested successfully for their usefulness as a bioassay system by comparing the response of auxins, herbicides, and cytokinins. Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) was the most effective auxin to stimulate root formation. IAA was effective whether the hypocotyl segments remained on the same medium up to 60 days, or the segments were transferred to basal media after 2 or 5 days (pulse treatment). Pulse treatments with the other auxins resulted in stimulation of root formation; continuous or 5-day pulses of higher concentrations of indole-3-butyric acid, -naphthaleneacetic acid and especially 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and picloram formed excessive callus instead of roots. Picloram did not stimulate root formation, whether the treatment was continuous or pulse-treated. No roots formed with continuous picloram at 0.1 mg/liter or greater, but transfer to basal media did result in root and shoot formation at about 50% of the number formed on the controls. Lesser picloram concentrations had no effect. Shoots formed readily on untreated (control) segments, but continuous treatment with all three cytokinins, kinetin, zeatin, and zeatin riboside, increased the numbers of shoots about equally. Root formation was inhibited by the cytokinins at the higher concentrations (0.1 to 0.2 mg/liter). With the exception of a 5-day pulse of 0.04 mg/liter IAA, the auxins did not stimulate shoot formation, but generally inhibited shoot formation, even in pulse-treated cultures. 
4293854| The influence of donor plant growth environment, microspore development stage, culture media and incubation conditions on microspore embryogenesis was studied in three Indian B. juncea varieties. The donor plants were grown under varying environments: field conditions, controlled conditions, or a combination of the two. The correlation analysis between the bud size and microspore development stage revealed that the bud size is an accurate marker for donor plants grown under controlled conditions, however, the same does not hold true for the field-grown plants. The buds containing late uninucleate microspores collected from plants grown under normal field conditions up to bolting stage and then transferred to controlled environment were observed to be most responsive with genotypic variability ranging from 10 to 35 embryos per Petri dish, irrespective of the other factors. NLN medium containing 13% sucrose was found to be most suitable for induction of embryogenesis. The fortification of this medium with activated charcoal, polyvinylpyrrolidone, colchicine, or growth regulators (6-benzylaminopurine and 1-naphthaleneacetic acid) was observed to be antagonistic for microspore embryogenesis, while silver nitrate (10 M) had a significant synergistic effect. A post-culture high-temperature incubation of microspores at 32.5  1C for 10-15 d was found most suitable for high-frequency production of microspore embryos. The highest frequency of microspore embryogenesis (78 embryos per Petri dish) was observed from the late uninucleate microspores (contained in bud sizes 3.1-3.5 mm irrespective of genotype) cultured on NLN medium containing 13% sucrose and silver nitrate (10 M), and incubated at 32.5C for 10-15d. 
4293927|Experiments were conducted to determine the effects of brassinosteroids on microspore embryogenesis in Brassica species. Two compounds, 24-epibrassinolide (EBR) and brassinolide (BL), were evaluated. An increase in embryogenesis was observed in all Brassica napus lines evaluated, including Topas 4079 and several recalcitrant cultivars: Garrison, Westar, and Allons. Microspore embryogenesis, calculated as the number of embryos at 21 d of culture, was increased in the recalcitrant cultivars up to 12 times that of the control. An increase in microspore embryogenesis was also observed for B. juncea when EBR or BL was added to the culture medium. In contrast, no significant increase in embryogenesis was observed for several other Brassica species evaluated (i.e. B. carinata, B. nigra, and B. rapa). The addition of brassinosteroids to the induction media did not affect the subsequent conversion of the embryos to plantlets, but did appear to influence chromosome doubling.
42568791|A successful cryopreservation protocol for the longterm conservation of protocorms of two threatened and vulnerable orchids, Cymbidium eburneum Lindl. and Cymbidium hookerianum Rchb. f, was developed using encapsulationdehydration.Protocorms were osmoprotected in liquid Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) containing 0.7 M sucrose for 20 h at 252C on a rotary shaker, and incorporated into an encapsulation matrix [consisting of 3% (w/) sodium alginate and 100 mM CaCl]. The encapsulated protocorms, which were desiccated in a laminar airflow cabinet for 6 h, were able to withstand cryostorage in liquid nitrogen. Maximum regeneration into complete plantlets (72% for C eburneum and 70% for C. hookerianum) of the cryostored, encapsulated protocorms was obtained using MS medium containing 3% sucrose and 0.8% agar. Using this protocol of cryopreservation, long-term preservation for ex situ conservation of these two threatened orchids can be accomplished.
42568789|The utility of transgenic plants for both experimental and practical agronomic purposes is highly dependent on stable, predictable, and heritable expression of the introduced genes. This requirement is frequently unfulfilled, and transgenes often are completely silenced. Studies of transgenic loci have shown that rearrangements of transgenes occur during the integration process, some of which are potent cues that induce silencing. Conversely, intact, single-copy transgenes produced via transposonmediated gene delivery have shown relatively stable expression, at least in early-generation progeny. To examine the long-term expression stability of a bar expression cassette delivered via Dissociation (Ds)-mediated transposition, we examined qualitative and quantitative expression in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) populations developed for transposon tagging. Qualitative assessments of herbicide resistance among 106 lines showed bar expression to be stable for at least five generations of advance via self-pollination. Similarly, qualitatively stable expression was observed among 31 near-isogenic lines derived from at least seven backcrosses to the cultivar Garnet. Quantitative RT-PCR measurements of bar expression were conducted for eight near-isogenic lines and their donor parents. The expression of bar was highly correlated in parent and progeny near-isogenic lines, showing high heritability of bar expression. These data demonstrate stable, predictable transgene expression following Ds-mediated delivery.
20461598|Three barley tissue-specific promoters (Dhn12, Itr1, and Ltp1) were transcriptionally fused to the C1 and/or the B-peru genes involved in anthocyanin biosynthesis. Transient expression of these constructs was examined in different wheat tissues. Constructs with tissue-specific promoters were only active in embryos. A green fluorescent protein (GFP) driven by the actin promoter was used as an internal standard to monitor the effectiveness of each bombardment. Further, normalization of the transient expression assay using the GFP reference significantly reduced the variability between separate bombardments, and the intensity of anthocyanin pigmentation quantified by image analysis allowed for a rapid and accurate evaluation of different promoters. Compared to CaMV35S promoter, tissue-specific promoters were more effective in directing anthocyanin production, specifically in wheat embryos, and the C1 gene was more effective than B-peru. Among the tissue-specific promoters, the Ltp1 was superior to Itr1 and Dhn12 in combination with C1 and/or B-peru gene(s). Analysis of nucleotide sequences of all three tissue-specific promoters revealed the presence of G-Box, E-Box, and RY elements, which might trigger embryo-specific expression in wheat.
23255671|Somatic embryogenesis was obtained from callus of wild arum (Arum palaestinum). Callus was induced from sterilized corm bud sprouts cultured on basal medium containing 4.4 M 6-benzyladenine and 5.4 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid. Callus was maintained under dark conditions using basal medium with 4.4 or 8.8 M 6-benzyladenine and 5.4 or 10.8 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid. The highest callus weight and most desirable callus phenotype were achieved using basal medium containing 8.8 M 6-benzyladenine and 5.4 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid. Friable calli were cultured in the dark on basal medium containing 4.5 M 2, 4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 0.46 M 6-furfurylaminopurine, 5.4 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid, and 1.7 mM proline to induce embryogenesis before transfer to regeneration medium. Embryos that developed on regeneration medium were transferred to medium minus plant growth regulators for germination. Ninety percent of the germinating embryos developed into rooted plantlets. Rooted plants were grown in the greenhouse and acclimatized successfully with a 95 % survival rate. This is the first report of successful somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration in A. palaestinum.
29736157|We report a protocol for efficient plant regeneration of four tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.) cultivars ('Surpro', 'Coronado', 'Summer Lawn,' and 'Fawn') via somatic embryogenesis. Calli were initiated from mature seeds grown on modified Murashige and Skoog (MMS) medium supplemented with 7.0 mg l (31. 7 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 0.05 mg l (0.23 M) kinetin (Kin). Calli were maintained and proliferated by subculture at monthly intervals on MMS medium containing 4.5 mg l (20.4M) 2,4-D and 0.2 mg l (0.9 M) Kin. Somatic embryos (SE) were induced from seed-derived calli on SE-induction medium (MMS supplemented with 2.0 mg l 2,4-D and 0.2 mg l kin). Plantlets were regenerated from somatic embryogenic calli grown on modified SH medium supplemented with 2 mg l Kin. Using this optimized protocol, 78.6-82.3% of mature seeds of all four cultivars produced SE clusters, of which 93.5-95.3% regenerated into plants within 10 wk. The regenerants showed no phenotypic abnormalities.
23255674|One of the alternatives to autoclaving culture media is chemical sterilization, which may cause fewer changes to the chemical composition of the media. In this study, the effect of chemical sterilization by inclusion of chlorine dioxide (ClO 2 ) in the culture medium on the in vitro development of gerbera (Gerbera jamesonii) cv. AL101, cultured at different stages of micropropagation, was evaluated. The following five concentrations of ClO 2 were tested: 0%, 0.0025%, 0.0050%, 0.0075%, and 0.010%. Autoclaved medium was used as the control. ClO 2 in the culture medium reduced contamination at rates comparable to autoclaving when tested at three stages of the culture process: in vitro establishment, multiplication, and rooting. Plantlets grown in culture media sterilized with ClO 2 showed similar or better development than those grown in autoclaved culture medium. Use of 0.0025% ClO 2 to sterilize the culture medium resulted in better plantlet development than autoclaved medium, regardless of the stage of micropropagation.
4293450|An efficient, rapid and large-scale propagation of the woody, aromatic and medicinal shrub, Holarrhena antidysenterica, through in vitro culture of nodal segments with axillary buds, is described.
4293624|Somatic hybrid plants were regenerated via electrofusion between leaf-derived protoplasts of 'Chicken heart' sweet wampee (Clausena lansium) and embryogenic protoplasts of 'Newhall' navel orange (Citrus sinensis Osbeck). Most of the complete plantlets were formed via mini-grafting. Flow cytometry showed that most of the regenerants were tetraploids as expected, but unexpectedly three plantlets were triploids. Simple sequence repeat (SSR) analysis of seven randomly selected tetraploids and the three triploids showed that they had specific fragments from both fusion parents, thereby confirming their hybridity. Analysis of cytoplasmic genomes using universal primers revealed that their chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) band pattern was identical to the mesophyll parent, while their mitochondrial genomes were of the navel orange type. According to the SSR results, the triploids obtained in this study were most likely due to chromosome elimination of 'Chicken heart' sweet wampee prior to plant regeneration.
4293440|Somatic embryos of banana cv. Rasthali (AAB genomic group) were encapsulated in 5% sodium alginate to produce synthetic seeds. The frequency of germination of encapsulated embryos varied considerably on different gel matrices and substrates used for plant development. Maximum conversion frequency of 66% was noted from encapsulated embryos cultured on MS medium. Plantlets developed from synthetic seeds were successfully transferred to soil.
4293756|A new protocol has been developed for the highly efficient somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration of 10 recalcitrant Chinese cotton cultivars. Calluses and embryogenic calluses were induced on MSB1 medium containing the optimal combination of indolebutyric acid (IBA;
20064901|Transgenic carrot (Daucus carota L.) plants were obtained following transformation with disarmed Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains MOG 101 (octopine type) and EHA 105 (leucinopine type). The strains harbored a binary plasmid that contained either an acidic chitinase gene from petunia (pMOG196), or a basic chitinase gene from tobacco (pMOG198) or bean (pGA492-CHN), transcriptionally fused to the constitutive 35S promoter from cauliflower mosaic virus. Each construct also contained the neomycin phosphotransferase gene (npt II) conferring kanamycin resistance. The influence of the Agrobacterium strains, plasmids, carrot cultivars, ages of explant, and cocultivation times were evaluated. The frequency of transformation (i.e., development of somatic embryos on Murashige and Skoog medium with 4.5 M 2,4-D and 100 mg/liter of kanamycin) was highest (12.1%) with 2-5-wk-old epicotyl segments of the cultivar Nanco cocultivated for 2-3 d with the supervirulent A. tumefaciens strain EHA 105. Transformation efficiency was not influenced by explant age or binary plasmid, but was significantly influenced by cocultivation period, Agrobacterium strain, and carrot cultivar. Transformed embryogenic calluses from five independent transformation events (out of about 15) were multiplied in suspension cultures (liquid MS medium with 0.5 M 2,4-D and 50 mg/liter of kanamycin). Within 4-6 wk following plating of cell suspensions onto MS medium without growth regulators or kanamycin, plantlets developed. Excised shoots were rooted on MS medium with kanamycin (50 mg/liter) before transferring to soil. Transformation was confirmed in the five independent lines by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-amplification of the npt II coding region and Southern hybridization analysis using an 800 bp Digoxigenin-UTP labeled probe specific for the npt II gene. One to four hybridizing bands were seen in the transgenic plants, indicating the integration of one to four T-DNA copies in the carrot genome. Transgenic plants of cultivars Golden State, Danvers Half Long, and Nanco, which contained either the acidic or basic chitinase genes were obtained. Expression of the introduced basic chitinase genes was confirmed by protein dot-blot analysis and immunostaining with anti-bean and anti-tobacco antibodies.
4293457|Embryogenic tissues of sugi (Cryptomeria japonica) were induced on a modified Campbell and Durzan (CD) medium containing
4293615| Biotechnology has become an important tool to produce plant secondary metabolites and proteases are among them. Although pineapple plants have been found to produce proteases, most of the biotechnological investigations on this crop have been focused on propagation. The procedure involving the use of temporary immersion bioreactors is one of the most outstanding because of its high multiplication rate. We previously recorded specific protease activity in the culture medium during the pre-elongation step of this protocol. Therefore we decided to modify this phase, looking for an increase of protease excretion. Three independent experiments were performed to evaluate the effects of culture duration, and levels of gibberellic acid (GA) and 6-benzyladenine (BA). The following indicators were recorded: shoot fresh mass per bioreactor; and protein concentration, proteolytic activity, and specific protease activity in culture media. As happens in investigations focused on protease production, the specific protease activity was the most important indicator recorded here. It maximized at 21 d of culture. Moreover, GA (4.2 M) increased specific activity in the culture medium while BA produced a negative effect. Results shown here demonstrate that conditions adequate for propagation purposes (15-d pre-elongation phase; 2.8 M GA; 2.2 M BA) are not necessarily adequate for protease excretion. 
20064885|Two protocols for clonal propagation of kurrat (Allium ampeloprasum var. kurrat) using explants from the basal plates of mature plants are described. In direct formation, explants were cultured in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium and supplemented with either benzyladenine at 0.0 or 4.4 M, or supplemented with 7.0 M benzyladenine and 0.1 M naphthaleneacetic acid. Shoots appeared after 4 wk of culture. In the two-step procedure, explants were cultured first on MS medium supplemented with 1.4 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 1.4 M kinetin, and incubated in the dark for 4 wk. They were then transferred to MS medium supplemented with 4.4 M benzyladenine for shoot formation. All shoots were rooted on MS medium containing
41496515|Genetic improvement of the apomictic forage grass species Cenchrus ciliaris L. based on conventional breeding methods is difficult and time-consuming. However, in vitro genetic manipulation of such species would provide a promising approach. A rapid and high-frequency in vitro plant regeneration protocol is essential for successful application of transgenic technology. This study reports on such a rapid, high-frequency and genotype-independent plant regeneration protocol for C. ciliaris L. Using the multiple shoot induction approach, up to 20 shoots per explant could be induced from shoot tips cultured on MS (Murashige and Skoog) medium when supplemented with 3.0 mg L TDZ. Two cultivars (IGFRI-3108 and IGFRI-727) and three exotic germplasm accessions (EC-397670, EC397496, and EC397336) showed equivalent responses to the protocol. Shoot tips from 4-d-old in vitro grown seedlings were used as expiants for multiple shoot induction. Regenerated shoots were cultured on MS medium supplemented with gibberellic acid (2.0 mg L) for shoot elongation. The regenerated shoots were rooted on MS medium supplemented with indole-3-acetic acid (3.0 mg L). When transferred to soil in pots, hardened plants displayed up to 85% survival under field conditions.
4293602|Foliar nutrition has been conceived as a possible means of overcoming the recalcitrance of Prosopis chilensis (Molina) Stuntz explants to standard in vitro culture. The foliar uptake of cations (K from
4293674| The embryogenic potential of different Echinacea purpurea tissues, viz. leaf, cotyledon, and root, was investigated. Maximum embryo-induction was achieved from leaf discs cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with benzylaminopurine (5.0 M) and indolebutyric acid (2.5 M) where 95% of the explants responded, yielding an average of 83 embryos per explant within 4 wk of culture. Incubation of cultures in the dark for an initial period of 14 d significantly increased the frequency of somatic embryogenesis (6-8-fold in leaf explants). Exposure of the abaxial surface of leaves to the medium significantly increased the number of embryos. Transfer of somatic embryos to a medium devoid of growth regulators resulted in 80% germination within 7 d. Over 73% of the somatic embryos developed roots within 28 d of culture on a medium containing naphthaleneacetic acid (10 M) with a maximum root number of 9.8 per plantlet. Transplanting ex vitro and acclimatization for a period of 7 d were sufficient to promote establishment of plants in the greenhouse, and more than 90% of the regenerated plants survived. 
20064963|The gaseous phytohormone ethylene regulates many aspects of plant morphogenesis. Growth and development of cells cultured in vitro are largely dependent on the presence of phytohormones, including ethylene in the culture environment. Hence, modification of phytohormone composition and interaction in the nutrient medium has been the primary strategy to manipulate morphogenesis in vitro. Such studies have shown the importance of ethylene, as well as the inhibition of its synthesis or action, in growth and organized development in vitro, including xylogenesis, organogenesis, somatic embryogenesis, and androgenesis. More recently, mutants and transgenic plants have been used to elucidate the role of ethylene in various cellular and developmental processes. In this review, we concentrate on the more recent advances in the study of ethylene in plant morphogenesis in vitro. We also include information about the various chemical modulators of ethylene biosynthesis and action employed in plant tissue culture.
20064894|Several factors that may affect induction of somatic embryogenesis in loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.) were investigated in 1994 and 1995. Megagametophytes containing immature zygotic embryos were excised from seeds as explants. Potassium chloride, silver nitrate, myo-inositol, coconut water, or polyamine was added to the control media (U.S. patent no. 5,036,007) to determine the effects of each single ingredient or their combinations on the initiation of embryogenic tissue. Supplements of myo-inositol at 22.2 mM resulted in increases in frequencies of cell mass extrusion and proliferation compared with the control media in consecutive years. Addition of silver nitrate showed the potential to promote initiation of embryogenic culture. The combination of 10 mM potassium with 29.4 M silver nitrate achieved the highest frequencies in both extrusion and proliferation of embryogenic tissue. The combination of silver nitrate at 29.4 M with addition of myo-inositol at 11.1 or 22.2 mM achieved a higher conversion rate from extrusion to proliferation. Polyamine did not significantly affect the induction of somatic embryogenesis, but coconut water was inhibitory.
42568438|This is the first report of induction of haploid callus with significant antioxidant activity from unpollinated ovary cultures of tea. Out of the five cultivars tested, TV 18 gave the highest percentage of callus induction. Within 1 wk of induction, ovules swelled to almost double their original size, and white, friable callus emerged. A high cytokinin/auxin ratio, provided by 8.5 M benzyl adenine and 4.5 M 2,4-dichlorophenxyacetic acid, and high-temperature treatment (33C) for 10 d in the dark promoted maximum callus induction. Callus was maintained on MS medium containing 22.2 M benzyl adenine and 9.8 M indolebutyric acid (callus line RM 1) in the light at 25C. Well-developed tracheids were formed within 4 wk in callus subcultured on MS medium containing 1.8 M thidiazuron and 5.0 M 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid (line RM 2). Flow cytometric analysis revealed that most cells were haploid. Both RM 1 and RM 2 produced phenolic compounds with significant antioxidant capacity. Phenolic content showed a positive linear correlation with antioxidant activity. The total phenolic content of RM 1 was 3.470.21 gallic acid equivalents (GAE) mg/g dry weight and that of RM 2 was 2.390.12 GAE mg/g dry weight. Antioxidant activity was measured using IC, a measure of inhibitory concentration; a lower IC value reflects greater antioxidant activity.The IC value of RM 1 was 2,530 g/ml and that of RM 2 was 3,170 g/ml. The results suggested that the phenolic compounds contributed significantly to the antioxidant capacity of the in vitro cell lines.
4293279| Somatic embryogenesis of Calamus manan, a single-stemmed rattan species, in tissue culture was scientifically demonstrated for the first time. Root tips of in vitro plantlets produced friable callus when the explants were cultivated for several mo. on a Murashige and Skoog induction medium containing 7.5 mg Picloram per l (31.1 M). Histological analyses established the presence of proembryos within the callus which differentiated subsequently into somatic embryos using the same culture medium. Histological examination revealed that these somatic embryos completely lacked starch and protein reserves, which did not prevent them, however, from germinating, and showing bipolar development. These somatic embryos further developed into young plants, similarly to zygotic embryos. 
4293759| Cryopreservation of African violet via encapsulation-dehydration, vitrification, and encapsulation-vitrification of shoot tips was evaluated. Encapsulation-dehydration, pretreatment of shoot tips with 0.3 M sucrose for 2d followed by air dehydration for 2 and 4 h resulted in complete survival and 75% regrowth, respectively. Dehydration of encapsulated shoot tips with silica gel for 1 h resulted in 80% survival but only 30% regrowth. Higher viability of shoot tips was obtained when using a step-wise dehydration of the material rather than direct exposure to 100% plant vitrification solution (PVS2). Complete survival and 90% regrowth were achieved with a four-step dehydration with PVS2 at 25C for 20 min prior to freezing. The use of 2M glycerol plus 0.4 M sucrose or 10% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) plus 0.5 M sucrose as a cryoprotectant resulted in 55% survival of shoots. The greatest survival (80-100%) and regrowth (80%) was obtained when shoot tips were cryoprotected with 10% DMSO plus 0.5 M sucrose or 5% DMSO plus 0.75 M sucrose followed by dehydration with 100% PVS2. Shoot tips cryoprotected with 2 M glycerol plus 0.4 M sucrose for 20 min exhibited complete survival (100%) and the highest regrowth (55%). In encapsulation-vitrification, dehydration of encapsulated and cryoprotected shoot tips with 100% PVS2 at 25C for 5 min resulted in 85% survival and 80% regrowth. 
20461689|Vanilla planifolia is a tropical orchid mainly known for the aromatic flavor of its cured pods. Callus cultures were initiated from leaf and nodal explants of V. planifolia. Leaf explants showed better callus initiation than the nodal explants with callus biomass production maximal when cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium containing 4.52 mM 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid and 2.22 mM benzyladenine (BAP). Callus transferred to MS basal medium supplemented with 13.32 M BAP, and 13.43 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) showed superior growth response and produced 14.01.0 shoots with an average length of 3.60.1 cm after 40 d. Subsequent transfer of the proliferated shootlets to MS basal medium supplemented with 8.88 M BAP and 8.08 M NAA produced 12.30.14 plantlets with an average height of 3.6 cm0.10 cm. All plantlets produced profuse rooting within 35-40 d after transfer to half-strength MS basal medium supplemented with NAA in combination with indole-3-acetic acid. Rooted plantlets were transferred for hardening, with 80% of the plantlets becoming successfully established in the field. Potentially, more than 100,000 plantlets could be produced within eight subcultures from callus obtained from leaf explant through the methods described here.
4293568|Protocorm-like bodies (plbs) of the orchid Dendrobium 'Sonia' were obtained from fractionated plb explants on Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium (MS) supplemented with
4293734|Embryogenic soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill] cultures were transformed with a Manduca sexta chitinase (msc) gene using microprojectile bombardment. A 1.7 kb DNA fragment encoding a tobacco hornworm chitinase was cloned into the rice transformation vector pGL2, under the control of the maize ubiquitin promoter and linked to the hpt gene as a selectable marker. After bombardment, hygromycin-resistant tissues were isolated and cultured to give rise to clones of transgenic material. Four hygromycin-resistant clones were converted into plants. Two clones were positive for the msc gene via polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and Southern blot analysis. The integration, inheritance, and expression of transgenes were confirmed by molecular analysis of transgenic soybean plants. Progeny analysis showed that the introduced genes were inherited and segregated in a 3:1 Mendelian fashion. DNA blot experiments and progeny inheritance analysis indicated that the plants contained several copies of the msc gene and that the insertion occurred at a single locus. Northern blotting analysis confirmed the expression of the transgenes. Western blot analysis of transgenic plants and their progeny revealed the presence of a protein with a molecular weight of 48kDa that reacted with the Manduca sexta antibody. Progeny from the chitinase-positive plants were tested for their resistance to the soybean cyst nematode. Plants expressing the insect chitinase did not manifest enhanced resistance to the soybean cyst nematode.
20064896|Adventitious shoots were induced on transversally divided expanding leaves from Fagus sylvatica shoot cultures of juvenile origin. Adventitious shoot buds formed mainly on callus that developed on the petiole stump or on the cut across the midrib of distal leaf halves. However, sometimes they arose directly from leaf tissue. An anatomical study confirmed both the direct and indirect origin of the adventitious buds. The best results were obtained by culturing proximal leaf sections on woody plant medium supplemented with 2.9 M indole-3 acetic acid in combination with 8.9 M benzyladenine or 2.3 M thidiazuron (TDZ). Proximal explants were more responsive than distal explants in terms of both callus formation and bud regeneration, regardless of the induction medium or clone tested. Bud formation capacity was influenced by the genotype of the stock shoot culture and was enhanced by an initial 10 d darkness, but was inhibited by longer periods of darkness. Caulogenic competence was significantly affected by the duration of exposure to TDZ; in particular, adventitious shoot length was depressed by increasing the exposure period. Three weeks culture with TDZ was the most efficient treatment for shoot production and elongation. Further shoot development was promoted by subculturing the explants to the same medium used for the maintenance of the stock shoot cultures. Shoots so obtained were multiplied and rooted producing plantlets of adventitious origin.
4292997|Embryogenic callus was formed from several cultivars of cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) when sections of hypocotyl and cotyledon were cultured on medium supplemented with 5 mg/liter
20064819|Encapsulated somatic embryos (artificial seeds) and naked (uncoated) somatic embryos of alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) were planted directly into the field to demonstrate the feasibility of using artificial seeds for direct sowing. Various row coverings that provided protection for the somatic embryos during conversion (plant formation) in the field and encapsulation methods were investigated. The highest conversion obtained in the field was 25% when naked somatic embryos were planted under the protective covering of inverted styrofoam cups. In comparison, 60% conversion was obtained when embryos were planted in potting mix in a growth chamber. Somatic embryos encapsulated by the thin-coat method converted at 23% under cups in the field and 40% in potting mix in the growth chamber. Naked somatic embryos had an average of 13 and 9% conversion in the field under plastic and cloth coverings, respectively, whereas encapsulated embryos converted at 5 and 14%, respectively. Direct-planted embryos (no row covering) converted at 1% in the field. Successful conversion of coated and naked somatic embryos planted in the field supports the concept of artificial seeds serving as a substitute for natural seeds.
20064818|Tropane alkaloid production was studied in different root cultures of Datura stramonium. Cultured roots were obtained with
4293107| Pinus pinaster plants were regenerated from cotyledons excised from in vitro germinated seeds and axenically cultured on induction medium (GMD). 6-Benzyladenine (2.2 M) induced the highest frequency of direct bud formation from cotyledons. An average of 13.1 2.1 elongated shoots per cotyledon was obtained. Germination time influenced shoot induction, and the organogenic potential decreased with explant age. Cotyledons remained for 21 d on induction medium, and in order to promote adventitious shoot elongation, they were transferred to Gupta and Durzan's DCR medium without growth regulators, containing 0.5% (wt/vol) activated charcoal and 3% (wt/vol) sucrose. Rooting was achieved by application of an indole-3-butyric acid, (396.6 M) pulse (24 h at 4 C), followed by transfer to a sterile mixture of peat plus perlite (1:1 vol/vol). Ninety-eight to 100% of the regenerated plants were successfully acclimatized. All plants have survived after transfer to the field. 
23255673|Anthriscus sylvestris (L.) Hoffm. (Apiaceae) is a common wild plant that accumulates the lignan deoxypodophyllotoxin. Deoxypodophyllotoxin can be hydroxylated at the C-7 position in recombinant organisms yielding podophyllotoxin, which is used as a semi-synthetic precursor for the anticancer drugs, etoposide phosphate and teniposide. As in vitro regeneration of A. sylvestris has not yet been reported, development of a regeneration protocol for A. sylvestris would be useful as a micropropagation tool and for metabolic engineering of the plant. Calli were induced from hypocotyl explants and transferred to shoot induction medium containing zeatin riboside. Regenerated shoots were obtained within 6 mo and were transferred onto growth regulator-free root induction medium containing 1% sucrose. Regenerated plants transferred to soil and acclimatized in a greenhouse. Plants were transferred to the field with a 100% survival rate. Regenerated plants flowered and were fully fertile. This is the first report of complete regeneration of A. sylvestris via shoot organogenesis from callus.
20540987|High-frequency plant regeneration of C. roseus cv. 'little bright eye' via somatic embryogenesis and organogenesis from five out of six explants was standardized. Two factors were found to be important for regeneration: (1) the type of explants, and (2) the combination and concentrations of plant growth regulators. The highest regeneration percentage through somatic embryogenesis was obtained from mature zygotic embryo in MS medium supplemented with 7.5 M of thidiazuron (TDZ). The mature embryo also regenerated efficiently via organogenesis in MS medium supplemented with either 2.5 M TDZ or 5.3 M -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) and 2.2 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA). Hypocotyl and cotyledon did not induce somatic embryogenesis and organogenesis in TDZ-containing medium but gave a maximum percentage of shoots in MS medium supplemented with 5.3 M NAA and 2.2 M BA. Stem nodes and meristem tips showed better regeneration via organogenesis in the medium supplemented with NAA and BA and in lower concentrations of TDZ.
23254893|An efficient method for the generation of adventitious shoots from the cotyledons of Japanese pear and related species was developed. Cotyledons from seeds of the Japanese pear "Okusankichi" and the Asian pea pear "Hokushimamenashi" were used to determine the optimum concentrations of phytohormones in the medium. The rates of generation of adventitious shoots and the numbers of adventitious shoots per explant were highest when the media contained 5 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid combined with 10 or 25 M 6-benzylaminopurine. These growth regulators were used to generate adventitious shoots from the cotyledons of 33 cultivars of Japanese, Chinese, Asian pea, and European pears. A high number of adventitious shoots per explant (1.32.3) and high rates of regeneration of adventitious shoots (6076 %) were obtained from the cotyledons of Japanese pears "Imamuraaki" and "Agenosho Shinanashi." Although pollination was not controlled, cotyledons from mother trees of old Japanese cultivars and Chinese pears tended to be more regenerable than those from other pear species. Since the rooting ability of the adventitious shoots was very low, micro-grafting was applied to obtain regenerated potted plants from adventitious shoots. Grafted regenerated plants were recovered at a rate of more than 60 %, regardless of cultivar. To our knowledge, this is the first report to evaluate shoot regeneration from cotyledons of major Pyrus species.
4292977|Nuclear hybrids have been obtained by fusion of mesophyll protoplasts of Nicotiana plumbaginifolia and x-irradiated or iodoacetate-treated mesophyll protoplasts of a kanamycin-resistant line of N. tabacum. The effect of irradiation on the recovery of asymmetric hybrids was evaluated by analysis of their morphology, fertility, chromosome number, isozyme patterns, restriction patterns in their organelle DNAs, and presence of the kanamycin-resistance gene. The results presented in this paper show that x-ray irradiation leads to a significant reduction in the amount of N. tabacum genome present in the hybrids and demonstrates, once more, the power of this technique to induce directional loss of genomic traits of the irradiated parent.
4292970|We used cultured pea embryo axes to study the effect of exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) on the reactivation of cell proliferation at germination. ABA (
4293433| Phosphomannose isomerase (PMI) catalyzes the reversible interconversion of mannose 6-phosphate and fructose 6-phosphate. Plant cells lacking this enzyme are incapable of surviving on synthetic medium containing mannose as a carbon source. Maize, wheat and barley plants, genetically modified to express the Escherichia coli manA gene (pmi) under the control of a plant promoter, were able to survive selection on mannose-containing medium. Transformation frequencies averaged 45% for maize transformation via Biolistics, 35% for maize Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, 20% for wheat, 3% for barley, and 2% for watermelon transformation. Moreover, the frequencies exceeded those obtained for maize and wheat using the pat or bar gene with Basta selection. A preliminary safety assessment has been conducted for PMI. Purified PMI protein demonstrates no adverse effects in an acute mouse toxicity test. Purified PMI protein was readily digested in simulated mammalian gastric and intestinal fluids. Plants derived from sugar beet and corn cells that had been genetically modified to express the E. coli manA gene were evaluated for biochemical changes in mannose-associated pathways. No detectable changes in glycoprotein profiles were detected in PMI-transformed plants as compared to non-transgenic controls. The yield and nutritional composition of grain from PMI-transformed corn plants compared to their non-transformed isogenic counterparts were also determined and no statistically significant differences were found. The inherent safety of a system based on simple sugar metabolism coupled with high transformation frequencies for monocots make pmi an ideal selectable marker for plant transformation. 
4293601|Viability changes and hydrogen peroxide production in cultured Lycopersicon esculentum cv. Rio Grande (tomato) cells exposed to induced stress conditions have been investigated. Our data suggest that in order to obtain reliable and insightful data when the hypersensitive response is being evaluated as an early elicitor-induced viability change in suspension cultures, it is strongly advisable to use the assay based on the reduction of tetrazolium salts, since it provides an adequate indicator of changes in metabolic activity that could otherwise be overlooked.
41496435|We have cloned a WD-repeat gene from peach. The cloned gene is more than 3 kb and contains signature domains characteristic of WD-repeat genes. Because of its high homology with AtTTG1, we hypothesized that this gene could be a TTG1 ortholog in peach. Functional studies were carried out by complementing the trichome minus Arabidopsis ttg1-1 mutant with the putative peach TTG1 homolog. Successful restoration of normal trichomes was achieved in the resulting transgenics. We further tested the possibility that this gene was the candidate gene differentiating peach and nectarine. Sequence analysis indicated no difference in the full-length TTG1 and 1,600 bp of its promoter between peach and nectarine.
20064914|This study was conducted to establish and optimize a regeneration system for adapted U.S. rice genotypes including three commercial rice cultivars (LaGrue, Katy, and Alan) and two Arkansas breeding lines. Factors evaluated in the study were genotype, sugar type, and phytohormone concentration. The system consisted of two phases, callus induction and plant regeneration. In the callus induction phase, mature caryopses were cultured on MS medium containing either 1% sucrose combined with 3% sorbitol or 4% sucrose alone, and 0.5 to
4293339|Callus cultures were established from pith tissue of Coryphantha elephantidens (Lem.) Lem. on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with
4293389|A binary vector, pPTN133, was assembled that harbored two separate T-DNAs. T-DNA one contained a bar cassette, while T-DNA two carried a GUS cassette. The plasmid was mobilized into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA101. Mature soybean cotyledonary node explants were inoculated and regenerated on medium amended with glufosinate. Transgenic soybeans were grown to maturity in the greenhouse. Fifteen primary transformants (T
4293092|Vella lucentina M. B. Crespo is a threatened Spanish species that is endemic to a small area in eastern Alicante Province (SE Spain). Micropropagation techniques were applied for ex situ conservation of this plant. Aseptic epicotyls bearing the apical bud were grown in Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 6-furfurylaminopurine (Kin),
4293005|Rapidly dividing cell suspension cultures derived from Datura innoxia (Mill.) selectively remove certain toxic metal ions from nutrient and waste solutions. Many ions, including necessary micronutrients, bind tightly to different components of the primary cell wall. Cell viability is not required for metal chelation to the extracellular matrix, and biopolymers purified from these cultures can be used to selectively remove metal ions from waste streams. Binding of normally toxic metals to the primary cell wall significantly reduces their toxicity. Chemical and metal luminescence methods that generate information about metal binding and cell-wall components responsible for this are presented. The feasibility of using plant cells and their components for bioremediation is discussed.
4293095|The uptake of nitrate and ammonium by callus of Platycerium coronarium from the culture medium was examined. Nitrate reductase activity of photoautotrophic callus cultures under CO
4293374|The in vitro plant regeneration potential of vegetatively propagated geraniums (Pelargonium x hortorum) has been investigated. Using various combinations of growth regulators and a choice of different explants, a regeneration protocol has been developed to raise in vitro plantlets from young petiole and leaf explants from three different cultivars of geraniums. In all three cultivars, very young petiole explants exhibited a higher regeneration potential as compared with leaf explants. Regeneration efficiencies were found to be highly dependent on the cultivar, with cv. Samba showing the highest regeneration potential, followed by cvs. Yours Truly and then Sincerity. Samba also showed the highest number of shoots from both the petiole [57 shoot buds per petiole explant in the presence of
29736211|A novel Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated transformation method using a primary-node explant from Dairyland cultivar 93061 was developed for soybean using the disarmed Agrobacterium strain SHA17. Transformed plants regenerated from explants inoculated with SHA17 were fertile and phenotypically normal. In a comparative experiment, regeneration frequencies were not significantly different between explants inoculated with A. rhizogenes strain SHA17 and Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain AGL1; however, a 3.5-fold increase in transformation efficiency [(number of Southern or TaqMan-positive independent events/ total number of explants inoculated)100] was found for explants cocultured with SHA17 compared to AGL1 (6.6 and 1.64%, respectively). Southern analysis of 48 T plants suggested that 37.5, 23, and 39.6% of the T plants contained 1, 2, and 3 or more T-DNA fragments integrated into the genome, respectively. Additionally, T progeny analysis of 8 independent events resulted in typical Mendelian inheritance of T-DNA genes. Of seven T plants that had two or more T-DNA fragments, six contained multiple loci segregating in T progenies. Further analysis of four lines confirmed the presence of PAT, GUS, and/or DsRED2 proteins in transgenic plants that were encoded on the T-DNA into the T generation.
23016697|Uraria picta is extensively used in the Asian traditional systems of medicine. Overexploitation of the species for preparation of the drug Dashmula has led to the plant becoming rare and endemic. In the present investigation, an efficient micropropagation protocol has developed from leaf-derived callus of U. picta. Among the various concentrations of cytokinins (6-benzyladenineBA; kinetinKin; and thidiazuronTDZ) used, a significantly higher number of shoots per culture (58.80.8) was observed on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium fortified with 4.44 M BA. The shoot regeneration frequency was sustained upon transfer to the same fresh medium at 4-wk intervals over a period of 2 yr. The medium containing various concentrations of auxins (-napthalene acetic acid (NAA) or indole-3-acetic acid (IAA)) showed callus interspersed root formation; however, MS basal medium containing 3% sucrose revealed direct root induction from in vitro raised shoots. The acclimatized in vitro grown plants showed almost 98% survival upon transfer to soil in earthen pots and grown ex vitro. Randomly amplified polymorphic DNA analysis of 25 arbitrarily selected regenerants and mother plants revealed 100% uniformity and true-to-type nature of the regenerants. Methanolic extracts of callus showed strong antibacterial activity against pathogenic bacteria as compared to leaf and root extracts of in vitro raised plants and wild plants, suggesting the presence of higher concentrations of active chemical constituents (isoflavanoids) in callus cultures of U. picta.
4293164| A protocol was developed for micropropagation of Heracleum candicans Wall. by axillary shoot proliferation. Maximum shoot proliferation was obtained on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 0.5 mg (2.2 M) 6-benzyladenine per l and 0.1 mg (0.4 M) 1-naphthaleneacetic acid per l. Regenerated shoots were rooted on MS medium fortified with 1 mg (4.9 M) indole-3-butyric acid per l. Complete plants were transferred to soil and all of these plants were morphologically and cytologically identical to the mother plant. 
4293172|This manuscript is the first of two that discuss statistical methods applicable to in vitro research. This paper focuses on topics to consider when planning experiments and provides examples of several experimental designs that are suitable for plant tissue culture and biotechnology projects. Use of factorial treatment designs and designing sequential experiments are also discussed. The second paper deals with data handling. Several key references are provided at the end of each manuscript as sources of additional information for readers' perusal.
29736183|The objective of this work was to enhance the quality and quality of microspore-derived embryos of cruciferous species by using polyethylene glycol (PEG) to replace sucrose in the culture medium. The main advantage in using PEG is that is produces embryos that are morphologically more similar to zygotic embryos and have enhanced germination capabilities. When microspores were cultured in full strength NLN medium supplemented with 25% (w/v) PEG, the addition of 3 ml of full strength NLN with 13% (w/v) sucrose at 14 d was beneficial for embryo quality and quanity. Experiments showed that this PEG system could be used for a number of Brassica napus cultivars, as well as a number of other cruciferous species. PEG enhanced microspore embryogenesis in B. nigra, Cramble abyssinica, and Raphanus oleifera. Microspore-derived embryos were obtained from all cruciferous species evaluated (B. alboglabra, B. carinata, B. juncea, B. rapa, B. nigra, R. oleifera, Crambe abyssinica, Sinapis alba) using either sucrose or PEG as the osmoticum. Microspore embryogenesis was induced in B. napus in PEG-based cultures without at 32C heat shock (i.e., 4, 15, 18, and 24C). These temperature conditions were non-inductive when sucrose was used as the osmoticum. Spontaneous chromosome doubling occurred in 64-92% of the regenerated plants when PEG was used in the NLN culture medium, whereas in culture medium containing sucrose, the spontaneous doubling rate was 2-18%.
4293713| A protocol has been developed for in vitro plant regeneration from cotyledonary nodes of Pterocarpus marsupium Roxb. Multiple shoots were induced from cotyledonary nodes derived from 20-d-old axenic seedlings grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 2.22-13.32 M benzyladenine (BA) or 2.32-13.93 M kinetin alone or in combination with 0.26 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The highest frequency for shoot regeneration (85%) and maximum number of shoots per explant (9.5) were obtained on the medium supplemented with 4.44 M BA and 0.26 M NAA after 15 wk of culture. A proliferating shoot culture was established by repeatedly subculturing the original cotyledonary nodal explant on fresh medium after each harvest of the newly formed shoots. Nearly 30% of the shoots formed roots after being transferred to half-strength MS medium containing 9.84 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) after 25 d of culture. Fifty percent of shoots were also directly rooted as microcuttings on a peat moss, soil, and compost mixture (1:1:1). About 52% of plantlets were successfully acclimatized and established in pots. 
4293556| Sprouting of a single shoot was obtained from nodal segments of field-grown cotton plants (Gossypium hirsutum L. cv. DCH-32 and NHH-44) when cultured on Murashige and Skoog's (MS) basal medium devoid of plant growth regulators. Pruning of the sprouted shoot followed by re-culturing of the explant on MS basal medium supplemented with 2.22 M benzylaminopurine triggered the dormant 'accessory buds' present in the node to proliferate and differentiate into multiple shoots. The shoots elongated on the same medium and rooted on MS basal medium devoid of growth regulators. Plantlets were hardened under greenhouse conditions and transferred to the field. Flowering and boll formation were observed in these plants at maturity. This technique for successful clonal propagation from mature cotton tissues should permit the rapid multiplication of plants selected based on specific phenotypic or genotypic characteristics. 
20171614| Many lipid molecules provide health benefits beyond their basic nutritional values and are included under the chemical classification of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA). Because of their immunomodulatory and anti-inflammatory properties, conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) and -3 PUFA can also be defined as nutraceuticals. CLA is a mixture of positional (i.e., 9,11; 10,12; or 11,13) and geometric (i.e., cis or trans) isomers of octadecadienoic acid. The CLA mixture has been shown to have anticarcinogenic, antiatherosclerotic, and immunomodulatory properties, but there is little or no evidence as to which of the individual isomers is the most important in mediating these health benefits. The mechanism by which dietary CLA influences immune function could involve regulation of lipid mediator synthesis, and/or transcriptional regulation of gene expression by peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-. However, these explanations have not been completely accepted in terms of defining the mechanism(s) regulating functional activity because of the lack of molecular evidence in vivo. Other PUFA within the category of nutrients that modulate health (e.g., -linolenic or eicosapentanoic acid) are immunosuppressive. Conversely, dietary CLA expanded CD8 lymphocytes and thymocytes (i.e., CD8 and double negative) in vivo, and enhanced proliferation of CD8 lymphocytes ex vivo. In addition, CLA decreased the tissue damage caused by bacterial-induced colitis. All these properties make dietary CLA a substance that provides medical or health benefits, including the prevention or treatment of diseases (e.g., nutraceutical). 
25623025|St. Augustinegrass is one of the most important warm season turfgrasses in the southern United States because of its shade tolerance. Most cultivars are diploids (2n=2x=18) and are susceptible to various diseases and insects. Polyploid cultivars in the species have some resistance to pests, but most lack cold tolerance. In this study, eight polyploid genotypes were crossed with six diploid cultivars to transfer pest resistance to the diploids. Because interploid crosses often result in aborted seed, it was necessary to use in vitro techniques. Using embryo rescue, 268 plants were recovered from 2,463 emasculated and pollinated florets (10.88% crossability). Because of the heterogeneous nature of the species, these purported hybrids could not be verified by phenotype. DNA markers were used for hybrid identification. A subset of 25 plants from crosses between the aneuploid cultivar Floratam (2n=4x=32) and five diploid cultivars were analyzed using 144 expressed sequence tagssimple sequence repeats (EST-SSRs) developed from buffelgrass cDNA sequence data. Chi-square tests for paternal-specific markers revealed that all analyzed progeny were true F hybrids and none originated from self-fertilization or unintended outcrossing. In addition to identifying DNA polymorphism, the EST-SSRs revealed that genetic variation exists among all analyzed cultivars and is not partitioned between ploidy levels. The findings demonstrate that these embryo rescue techniques will enable the entire spectrum of St. Augustinegrass genetic variation to be better used through the recovery of interploid hybrids.
4293380|Callus of Phalaenopsis Nebula was induced from seed-derived protocorms on 1/2 Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium plus
4293876|The chloroplast genetic engineering approach offers a number of unique advantages, including high-level transgene expression, multi-gene engineering in a single transformation event, transgene containment via maternal inheritance, lack of gene silencing, position and pleiotropic effects and undesirable foreign DNA. Thus far, more than 40 transgenes have been stably integrated and expressed via the tobacco chloroplast genome to confer several agronomic traits and produce vaccine antigens, industrially valuable enzymes, biomaterials, and amino acids. Functionality of chloroplast-derived vaccine antigens and therapeutic proteins have been demonstrated by in vitro assays and animal studies. Oral delivery of vaccine antigens has been facilitated by hyperexpression in transgenic chloroplasts (leaves) or non-green plastids (carrots) and the availability of antibiotic-free selectable markers or the ability to excise selectable marker genes. Additionally, the presence of chaperones and enzymes within the chloroplast help to assemble complex multi-subunit proteins and correctly fold proteins containing disulfide bonds, thereby drastically reducing the costs of in vitro processing. Despite such significant progress in chloroplast transformation, this technology has not been extended to major crops. This obstacle emphasizes the need for plastid genome sequencing to increase the efficiency of transformation and conduct basic research in plastid biogenesis and function. However, highly efficient soybean, carrot, and cotton plastid transformation has been recently accomplished via somatic embryogenesis using species-specific chloroplast vectors. Recent advancements facilitate our understanding of plastid biochemistry and molecular biology. This review focuses on exciting recent developments in this field and offers directions for further research and development.
42568434|Panax quinquefolium, American ginseng, is valued for its triterpene saponins, known as ginsenosides. These constituents possess a number of pharmacological properties and hairy root cultures can synthesize similar saponins to those of field-cultivated roots. The antibacterial activity of extracts from three hairy root clones of P. quinquefolium L. was tested against a range of standard bacterial and yeast strains. The agar diffusion method was used to evaluate inhibition of microbial growth at various extract concentrations. Commercial antibiotics were used as positive reference standards to determine the sensitivity of the strains. Susceptibility testing to antibiotics was also tested using the disk diffusion method. The minimal inhibitory concentration values of the extracts, obtained by agar diffusion, ranged from 0.8 to 1.4 mg/ml. The results showed that extracts from hairy root cultures inhibited the growth of bacteria and yeast strains and suggest that they may be useful in the treatment of infections caused by pathogenic microorganisms.
20064974|Abscisic acid (ABA) is involved in various physiological processes in plant growth and in the development of embryos and the maturation of seed. There is still much to learn about the influence of ABA on regulation of gene expression during plant and seed development. Perhaps not surprisingly, ABA has a major role in the stimulation of somatic embryo maturation in several conifer species, especially spruces. In spite of this, our knowledge of the effects of exogenous ABA is incomplete, for example the effect of ABA concentration on its uptake and fate has rarely been investigated during somatic embryo culture, and our knowledge of molecular events in conifer somatic embryo development is very scant. The intent of this review is to summarize some of the recent research in spruce somatic embryo development related to the use of ABA and to the consequence of its use.
20064931|To improve selection of transgenic Coffea spp. tissue after transformation treatments, the effects of the selective agents chlorsulfuron, glufosinate, glyphosate, hygromycin, and kanamycin were studied on callus development from leaf explants (from greenhouse-grown plants and somaplants) and in embryogenic suspension cultures. Studied genotypes were from C. arabica, C. canephora, and the interspecific hybrids Arabusta and Congusta. A culture system based on "direct" somatic embryogenesis from C. canephora leaf explants proved to be more sensitive to selective agents than high frequency somatic embryogenesis from C. arabica or Arabusta leaf explants. With respect to the selective effect, chlorsulfuron and hygromycin provoked strong inhibition and severe necrosis, whereas glyphosate and kanamycin showed variable inhibition. Glufosinate appeared to efficiently inhibit growth of both leaf callus and callus suspensions of all genotypes tested without inducing necrosis. These properties may make the use of glufosinate advantageous in a selective growth system for detection of transformed coffee tissues.
4293739| An in vitro culture procedure was established for repetitive embryogenesis and plant regeneration from seed-derived protocorms of Phalaenopsis amabilis var. formosa Shimadzu (Orchidaceae). Seed-derived protocorms were cultured on modified half-strength Murashige and Skoog (1962) basal medium (1/2MS) devoid of plant growth regulators. After 45 d, 28.1% of protocorms formed embryos from their posterior regions. 1-Phenyl-3-(1,2,3-thiadiazol-5-yl)-urea (TDZ; 0.45,4.54, and 13.62 M) promoted direct embryo formation. The best response was at 13.62 M TDZ, and 100% of the protocorms formed a mean number of 13.5 embryos after 45 d of culture. By contrast, naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) at 0.54 and 5.37 M inhibited direct embryo formation. On basal medium devoid of plant growth regulators, 18.8% of primary proliferating embryos could form more embryos. TDZ (0.45, 4.54, and 13.62 M) also promoted this process. Proliferating embryos/protocorms were transferred to basal medium devoid of plant growth regulators for plantlet formation. Plantlets were successfully obtained from the embryos after 4-6 wk. Following subculture every 6 wk for three passages, the plantlets were transferred to sphagnum moss in a container for acclimatization in the greenhouse. The survival rate was 100%. 
20064889|A procedure is described to regenerate shoots and plants from the embryonic axis of avocado seedlings with benzyladenine or thidiazuron. Explants were grown in the dark for 10 d and then transferred to an 18-h photoperiod to induce multiple shoots. Increased concentrations of benzyladenine or thidiazuron resulted in increased shoot production. Shoots were transferred to shoot promoting media where additional shoots were formed. Under the best conditions, six rooted shoots were produced per original explant. About 80% of the shoots with roots survived in the glasshouse and produced normal phenotypic plants.
20065027|We report a less genotype-dependent in vitro regeneration system capable of producing multiple shoot clumps and whole plants in four different wheat genotypes. Shoot apical meristems from 7-d-old seedlings produced axillary and adventitious shoots and somatic embryos on media containing N-benzyladenine (BA) and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). All four genotypes responded positively to shoot multiplication depending upon media composition. Scanning electron microscopies of cultures showed a proliferating budding state that gave rise to adventitious shoots and somatic embryos on further multiplication. The percentage of relative shoot apical meristem multiplication was 80-90%, and the average number of shoot meristems per multiplied shoot was 40-50 in all genotypes. Among different concentrations of phytohormones, 2 and
4293062|Aggregates of globular and pre-globular stage somatic embryos from suspension cultures of pecan (Carya illinoensis Koch) were cultured on solidified media for embryo development. Embryo aggregates and pre-globular stage embryo masses were given various treatments to further ontologic development. A 2- to 4-wk mild dehydration of the embryo aggregates suppressed recurrent embryogenesis, promoted development of globular embryos into cotyledonary stage embryos, and enhanced plant development beyond germination. Fine embryogenic tissue masses filtered from suspension formed cotyl-edonary-staged embryos when the collection filters were plated on solidified medium. The embryogenic capacity of pre-globular stage embryo masses was compared between media supplemented with varying concentrations of polyethylene glycol (molecular weight 8 000) vs. filter overlays. The filter paper overlays were not necessary for embryo development. An inverse relationship was found between the number of embryos that developed and the concentration of polyethylene glycol in the medium. However, this relationship was reversed for ability of embryos to germinate and develop into a plant.
4293849| This is the first report of simultaneous organogenesis and somatic embryogenesis in Arnebia euchroma, a highly valued, critically endangered medicinal plant of the Himalaya. Root-derived callus showed only rhizogenesis, whereas leaf-derived callus showed simultaneous organogenesis and somatic embryogenesis. Organogenesis was optimal (12.2 shoots per culture) in 1 M indole-3-butyric acid combined with 2.5 M 6-benzyladenine and induction of somatic embryogenesis (16.3 embryos per culture) occurred in 2.5 M indole-3-butyric acid combined with 2.5 M 6-benzyladenine. Shoots rooted (100%) best in half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2.0 M indole-3-butyric acid. Early cotyledonary-stage embryos encapsulated with 3% sodium alginate and calcium nitrate (100 mM for 25min) showed 60.6% germination in MS medium. Rooted shoots transferred to a mixture of sterile soil, sand, and peat (1:1:1 by volume) showed 72% survival ex vitro. Application of these protocols would be helpful in reducing pressure in natural populations, in genetic transformation studies, and in long-term storage of elite genotypes through synthetic seed production. 
4293699|Stem segments from apical shoot tips of Polygala myrtifolia were used as primary explants to establish in vitro cultures. Axillary shoots produced on non-contaminated explants were excised and recultured in the same medium to increase the stock of shoot cultures. Equal molar concentrations of five cytokinins [2-isopentenyladenine, kinetin, zeatin,
24596344|Ethylene and polyamines (PAs) are two phytohormones that play important roles during in vitro morphogenesis of several plant species. The interaction between ethylene and PAs has been of interest because both have S-adenosylmethionine as a precursor. To study the influence of ethylene and PAs on in vitro morphogenesis of an ornamental pepper, we added an ethylene scavenger, PAs, a PA inhibitor, and compounds that affect ethylene biosynthesis and activity to the regeneration medium. Regeneration frequencies increased in response to treatment with ethylene inhibitors (aminoethoxyvinylglycine and silver thiosulfate) and an ethylene scavenger (mercury perchlorate). Treatment with the ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid reduced the regeneration frequency, increased callus formation, and increased ethylene levels; similar results were obtained in response to treatment with the PA inhibitor methylglyoxal-bis(guanylhydrazone). By contrast, treatment with PAs (particularly spermidine and spermine) decreased ethylene levels, increased the regeneration frequency, and increased shoot bud formation. These results suggest a coordinated regulation of ethylene and polyamines because the suppression of ethylene levels using ethylene inhibitors, polyamines, or mercury perchlorate increased the in vitro regeneration frequency and morphogenic responses of Capsicum annuum L.
4293773| High-frequency somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration were achieved on callus developed from root, stem disc, leaf, and scape explants of Eryngium foetidum L. (Apiaceae). Calluses developed on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium fortified with 5.37 - 10.74 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) in combination with 2.32 or 4.65 M kinetin (Kn) formed somatic embryos after transfer to liquid half-strength MS (1/2MS) medium with 2.69 M NAA and 1.16 M Kn. Furthermore, promotion of embryo formation was also observed in callus developed on medium with 4.52 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and Kn after transferral to 1/2MS liquid medium containing 10% coconut water (CW)/coconut toddy (CT). Somatic embryos developed into plantlets at the highest frequency (98%) after transferral to solid 1/2MS medium containing 10% CW/CT. All the plantlets were acclimatized in soil and survived under field conditions, and they were morphologically indistinguishable from the source plant. 
23016584|In vitro techniques are very useful for conserving plant biodiversity, including (a) genetic resources of recalcitrant seed and vegetatively propagated species, (b) rare and endangered plant species and (c) biotechnology products such as elite genotypes and genetically engineered material. Explants from recalcitrant seed and vegetatively propagated species can be efficiently collected under field conditions using in vitro techniques. In vitro culture techniques ensure the production and rapid multiplication of disease-free material. Medium-term conservation is achieved by reducing growth of plant material, thus increasing intervals between subcultures. For long-term conservation, cryopreservation (liquid nitrogen, -196C) allows storing plant material without modification or alteration for extended periods, protected from contaminations and with limited maintenance. Slow growth storage protocols are routinely employed for a large number of species, including numerous endangered plants, from temperate and tropical origin. Cryopreservation is well advanced for vegetatively propagated species, and techniques are ready for large-scale experimentation in an increasing number of cases. Research is much less advanced for recalcitrant species due to their seed characteristics, viz., very high sensitivity to desiccation, structural complexity and heterogeneity in terms of developmental stage and water content at maturity. However, various technical approaches should be explored to develop cryopreservation techniques for a larger number of recalcitrant seed species. A range of analytical techniques are available, which allow understanding physical and biological processes taking place in explants during cryopreservation. These techniques are extremely useful to assist in the development of cryopreservation protocols. In comparison with crop species, only limited research has been performed on cryopreservation of rare and endangered species. Even though routine use of cryopreservation is still limited, an increasing number of examples where cryopreservation is used on a large scale can be found both in genebanks for crops and in botanical gardens for endangered species.
4293379|Root apices from in vitro cultured garlic (Allium sativum) cloves of cvs. ABEN and GT96-1 were used as axenic explants for organogenic callus production and plant regeneration experiments. Explants cultured in media based on those of Chu and co-workers (N6) or Murashige and Skoog (MS) could induce organogenic callus after 8 wk culture in darkness. Both media were supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (
29736220|In an effort to develop a sustainable protocol for the micropropagation of a shy suckering elite chrysanthemum cv. Arka Swarna (yellow pompon type), in vitro cultures were established using surface-sterilized nodal microcuttings (1-1.5 cm) from polyhouse-grown plants on MS medium containing 3% sucrose, 0.25% phytagel, and 5 M benzyl adenine (BA) or kinetin. Microbial contamination in the range of 6-24% was encountered during the first in vitro passage. Apparently clean cultures after one passage on MS basal medium were transferred to medium with BA or kinetin (0, 1, 5, 10, or 20 M) in culture bottles, and were monitored for eight in vitro passages (1 mo. each) for growth and microbial contamination. Plant growth regulator (PGR)-free medium was the best for sustainable micropropagation over successive in vitro passages yielding a single shoot from cultured microcuttings. Higher cytokinin levels inhibited rooting and induced one or more shorter shoots with close nodes resulting in low propagation rates. All apparently clean stocks revealed covert endophytic bacteria during tissue-indexing using bacteriological media. Three distinct bacterial morphotypes were isolated from such stocks, identified based on 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis as different morphotypes of Curtobacterium citreum. The endophytes tended to show obvious growth on chrysanthemum culture medium with increase in cytokinin levels (5-20 M), but such growth was not noticed in inoculations on MS medium without plants. Sustainable micropropagation of cv. Arka Swarna for more than 2 yr with the resident endophytic bacteria in covert form was realized on PGR-free MS medium giving a net propagation rate of three to four times over a subculture cycle of 2-3 wk.
4293690|Somatic embryogenesis represents a promising tool for mass propagation of elite genotypes of conifers. The efficiency of the technique strongly depends on cultivation conditions, with the exogenous saccharide supply being one of the most important factors. Different types and concentrations of saccharides have been empirically evaluated with respect to production of acceptable numbers and quality of somatic embryos for particular conifer species. Only a few recently published papers have focused on deeper studies of carbohydrate metabolism, enabling insight into the physiological background of the crucial effects of carbohydrates. Generally, saccharides are known to serve as carbon and energy sources, osmotic agents, stress protectants, and signal molecules in plants. This review collects and critically discusses the experimental data on exogenous saccharide supplies, resulting endogenous levels, and key enzyme activities obtained from the most thoroughly described genus Picea. In conclusion, it stresses the necessity to broaden the studies and consider the multiple roles of saccharides during conifer somatic embryogenesis.
4293856|Plant tissue culture media, sterilized through commercial filter membrane units, inhibited plant cell growth and development. Embryogenesis was suppressed in microspore cultures of Brassica napus and anther cultures of Triticum aestivum, and in vitro pollen development was suppressed in B. napus. Inhibition of growth and development occurred on media that had been filter-sterilized in low volumes through non-washed filter membrane units of all brands tested, including Nalgene, Corning, Millipore, and Sartorius membrane products. Similar results were obtained with Costar Transwells and Millipore inserts (Millicell-CM, -HA, and -PCF). These deleterious effects were eliminated by washing the membranes with water followed by a small volume of the medium. Media sterilized by filtration through washed filters produced significant improvements of growth and development of embryos and pollen.
20461641|Induction of somatic embryogenesis in Pinus armandii var. amamiana, an endemic and endangered species in Japan, was initiated from megagametophytes containing immature zygotic embryos on both media with and without plant growth regulators. Across nine open-pollinated families initiation frequency ranged from 0 to 20%, with an average of 1.5%. Embryogenic cultures were maintained and proliferated on a medium supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (3 M) and 6-benzylaminopurine (1 M). Maturation of somatic embryos occurred on medium containing maltose (50 g l), activated charcoal (2 g l), abscisic acid (100 M), and polyethylene glycol (100 g l). The frequencies of germination and plant conversion of somatic embryos differed among the embryogenic lines from 16 to 51% and from 12 to 40%, respectively. Growth of regenerated somatic plants has been monitored in the field.
4293623|Hairy root cultures of Lycopersicon esculentum L. Mill cv. Pera were established by infection of leaf explants with Agrobacterium rhizogenes LBA 9402. The pattern of peroxidase isoenzymes in these tissues was similar to that of roots excised from tomato plants grown in hydroponic cultures. Hairy root cultures may be an appropriate system to analyze the peroxidase involvement in the response of isolated roots to salt stress, avoiding the problem of wounding or changes in hormone levels observed in roots excised from plants. The cultures of hairy roots allowed the evaluation of changes in peroxidase patterns not only in the tissue but also in the culture medium. Hairy roots were subcultured in Murashige and Skoog liquid medium with or without 100 mM NaCl to investigate the evolution of growth, total peroxidase activity of the tissue and culture medium, and changes in the peroxidase isoenzyme patterns under each condition of growth. Control cultures showed a growth index higher than those reported for other hairy root cultures, and it was even higher in the presence of 100 mM NaCl. The total peroxidase activity in the tissue was similar for control and salt-treated roots. Even when the total peroxidase activity of the medium decreased under salt treatment, NaCl induced secretion of a highly basic peroxidase and inhibition of the secretion of some acidic isoenzymes. These changes may explain the physiological role of these enzymes in the response to salt stress that we will possibly establish through a future study of the biochemical properties of those peroxidases.
23254894|The basal salt formulation of a medium is a vital but often overlooked component in many in vitro applications, as it regulates the growth and morphology of plant tissues by providing essential nutrients. The MS and B5 formulations are the two most widely used basal media, yet they are suboptimal for many species. The objective of this study was to evaluate the BDS (modified B5) basal salt formulation for in vitro growth and development using rice, maize, soybean, cotton, onion, tobacco, muscadine, raspberry, and gerbera daisy as test species. The responses measured for each species included callus growth (biomass production), plant regeneration, micropropagation rate, hairy root growth, and production of secondary metabolites. BDS was compared to MS, B5, and BABI, a high-calcium version of BDS (440 mg/l CaCl 2 ). For the majority of the species and responses measured, the results obtained with BDS and/or BABI were equal to or better than those obtained with MS or B5. Because of the wide range of plant species and in vitro systems included in this study, we conclude that BDSor simple variations of BDS, such as BABIare better balanced for a variety of uses in plant biotechnology, research, and production systems than either MS or B5.
40663765|Passiflora alata in vitro organogenesis was studied based on explant type, culture medium composition, and incubation conditions. The results indicated that the morphogenic process occurred more efficiently when hypocotyl segment-derived expiants were cultured in media supplemented with cytokinin and AgNO incubated under a 16-h photoperiod. The shoot bud elongation and plant development were obtained by transferring the material to MSM culture medium supplemented with GA and incubated in flasks with vented lids. Histological analyses of the process revealed that the difficulties in obtaining plants could be related to the development of protuberances and leaf primordia structures, which did not contain shoot apical meristem. Roots developed easily by transferring elongated shoots to 1/2 MSM culture medium. Plant acclimatization occurred successfully, and somaclonal variation was not visually detected. The efficiency of this organogenesis protocol will be evaluated for genetic transformation of this species to obtain transgenic plants expressing genes that can influence the resistance to Cowpea aphid borne mosaic virus.
4293155|Adventitious shoot induction from zygotic embryo and seedling explants of Cycas revoluta was studied, with reference to both nitrogen formulation of the medium and light. The presence of nitrate as a sole source of nitrogen in Klimaszewska and Keller (KK) medium did not promote shoot induction; on the other hand, shoot induction was promoted by the use of ammonium-containing media, i.e., Schenk and Hildebrandt (SH) and Murashige and Skoog (MS). In the case of zygotic embryos, the percentage of responding explants and the number of regenerated shoots were significantly higher on SH medium than on MS medium. With seedling explants, shoot induction was not affected by the use of SH medium versus MS medium. Photoperiod also influenced bud formation and development. The absence of light during shoot induction stimulated callus formation and very few differentiated shoots. Shoot induction from zygotic embryos was positively affected by the application of 4- and 8-wk photoperiod exposures, the combination SH medium/8-wk photoperiod exposure giving the best results in terms of shoot induction and development. Rooting of shoots was improved by their culture in medium containing NAA.
20064952|This paper reports a part of our studies on large-scale T-DNA-mediated gene tagging in Arabidopsis thaliana. To enhance the chance of tagging specific stress-responsive genes of this species by monitoring the preferential insertion of the T-DNA into the actively transcribed loci, we exposed the root explants to low temperature (LT), abscisic acid (ABA), and extracellular enzymes (EXE) of the plant pathogen Erwinia carotovora prior to transformation by Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Both LT and ABA reduced the frequency of transformation; with these treatments, the average transformation frequencies were 8.1% and 2.6%, respectively. However, in explants pretreated with EXE the transformation frequency was 89.0%, similar to that obtained in control materials (92.6%). Transgenic calli developed from these explants did not require any treatment with azacytidine (azaC) for efficient shoot regeneration. Furthermore, this treatment enhanced multiple insertion of the T-DNA into the plant genome; within a population of EXE-treated transgenic plants, the number of lines harboring at least three copies of the integrated T-DNA was much higher (61%) than that observed in an untreated population (34%).
4293569|Residual macronutrients, carbon source, and gibberellic acid (GA
20461562|Rapid propagation of Pogostemon heyneanus Benth. (Lamiaceae) was accomplished through culture of node explants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing N-benzyladenine (BA). Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and gas chromatographic (GC) analysis of in vitro-derived progenies were used to determine the true-to-type nature of in vitro-derived plantlets. At the optimum level of BA (2.22 M), the axillary buds underwent a degree of dedifferentiation to become small globular green masses from which a mean of 17.1 shoots were developed within 40 d. Retaining the culture without subculture enhanced the number of shoots (&gt;30 shoots). Increased callus proliferation was observed at higher concentrations of BA in concomitance with a reduction in number of shoots. However, prolonged culture without subculture (more than 60 d) initiated 25-30 shoot buds from the callus. Culture of node segments excised from in vitro shoots on fresh medium with optimal BA (2.22 M) exhibited a similar response, but with an increase of shoots (mean of 26.3 shoots per node) within 40 d. Subculture of shoot clumps on half-strength MS basal medium resulted in elongation (more than 4 cm) of most of the shoots along with the development of new shoots. Shoots developed were rooted most successfully on half-strength MS medium with 4.9 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). Plantlets derived from the best rooting medium established in small cups exhibited 95% survival. Plantlets successfully established in field conditions exhibited morphological characteristics identical to the source plant. The RAPD profile of the in vitro-derived plants and source plant, using 10 random primers, was similar. The gas chromatogram of the extracted oils from in vitro-derived plants and the source plant showed similar patterns.
20461552|Release of inorganic mercury pollutants into shallow aquatic environments has resulted in the bacterial production of a more toxic organic mercury species, methylmercury. The bacterial organomercurial lyase (MerB) catalyses the protonolysis of the carbon-mercury bond and releases Hg(II), a less toxic, non-biomagnified form of mercury. Our objective was to engineer eastern cottonwood (Populus deltoides), a fast-growing tree adapted to growth in riparian environments, with the merB gene to explore its potential for phytoremediation of mercury. We produced multiple eastern cottonwood clones expressing a modified bacterial merB gene, confirmed that the gene was expressed in the transclones and tested the regenerated plants for their ability to tolerate exposure to an organic mercury source, phenylmercuric acetate (PMA), in vitro and in hydroponic culture, compared to wild-type control trees. Transgenic merB plants expressed high levels of MerB protein and showed some evidence of higher resistance to the organic mercury than wild-type plants, producing longer roots under exposure to PMA in vitro, although hydroponic culture results were inconclusive. Our results indicate that in order for merB to be useful in eastern cottonwood trees designed to degrade methylmercury at mercury-contaminated aquatic sites, it will probably need to be combined with other genes such as merA.
20065026|A plant regeneration system from cell suspension cultures was established in an important ornamental crop, Limonium sinuatum Mill. cv. 'Early Rose'. Friable callus was initially induced from leaf segments of in vitro-cultured seedlings on 0.25% gellan gum-solidified half-strength Murashige and Skoog [1/2MS] medium containing
4293063|Significant improvements were achieved in the production of haploid and doubled haploid plants from isolated microspore culture of wheat c.v. Chris on a defined media. Procedures found to be of benefit included: A 7-day pretreatment of anthers in 0.4 M mannitol plus the macronutrients from FHG medium; the inclusion of 4.5 mg/liter abscisic acid in the pretreatment solution; the isolation of microspores from pretreated anthers by vortexing; and the use of phenylacetic acid (PAA) as the auxin source in MS medium. The best response was achieved with 4.0 mg/liter PAA in MS medium containing 90 g/liter maltose as the sugar source. Under these conditions, 68% of viable microspores underwent division, and an average of 93 embryos and 92 green plants were regenerated per 100 anthers used. The root-tip chromosome number and the fertility of 114 regenerating green plants revealed that 75% were completely fertile spontaneously doubled haploids.
4292964|Cell division-dependent activity of a histone H3 promoter from alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) has been shown through the analysis of both transgenic Nicotiana tabacum L. plants and a M. varia L. cell line. A chimeric gene was used to assay the activity of the histone H3 promoter in both transgenic systems. The chimeric gene was composed of 284 bp of 5' upstream sequence from an alfalfa histone H3 genomic clone fused to the
23255669|A genetic transformation protocol was developed using the transfer of a synthetic CP4 EPSPS transgene, as a conditional positive selectable marker, into commercially relevant zonal pelargoniums using an Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain in combination with a novel step-down glyphosate selection system. The transformation efficiency based on independent T-DNA integration events averaged 1.9 % over 10 experiments. Some 273 independent transformants were produced within an average time of 6 mo from explant inoculation with Agrobacterium to plantlet recovery. For plantlet recovery, three aromatic amino acids were incorporated into the rooting medium to ameliorate the accumulative effects of glyphosate selection. The T-DNA also contained a mutant ethylene receptor (etr1-1) cDNA from Arabidopsis thaliana, under control of the petunia flower-specific, floral-binding protein promoter, to confer ethylene insensitivity. However, delayed flower senescence was not obtained. The transformation protocol provides a reliable method to add herbicide resistance and other traits to zonal pelargonium.
41318710|Somatic embryos were obtained from a 60-yr-old Quercus suber L. tree. Leaf expiants were cultivated on Murashige and Skoog medium with 30 g1 sucrose, 3 g 1 gelrite, pH adjusted to 5.8, and different growth regulator combinations.Callus induction took place at 24  1C in the dark during the first 3 wk. After 3 mo. calluses that showed embryognie structures were transferred to the same medium without growth regulators. Somatic embryogenesis was only observed in calluses induced on E3 medium (supplemented with 4.5 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 9.0 M zeatin). On average, 7.5% of the initial expiants formed embryognie calluses in this medium. Somatic embryo proliferation was high due to secondary embryogenesis. On average, 10% of the somatic embryos germinated and 40% of these germinated embryos converted into plants. Plants were elongated on the same medium without growth regulators and acclimated to greenhouse conditions.
4292988|Proliferation of terminal and axillary buds of 20 yr-old Pinus caribaea and P. kesiya trees was obtained on half strength DCR medium supplemented with
20541031|Due to the rapid rate of worldwide consumption of nonrenewable fossil fuels, production of biofuels from cellulosic sources is receiving increased research emphasis. Here, we review the feasibility to produce lignocellulosic biomass on marginal lands that are not well-suited for conventional crop production. Large areas of these marginal lands are located in the central prairies of North America once dominated by tallgrass species. In this article, we review the existing literature, current work, and potential of two native species of the tallgrass prairie, prairie cordgrass (Spartina pectinata), and little bluestem (Schizachyrium scoparium) as candidates for commercial production of biofuel. Based on the existing literature, we discuss the need to accelerate research in the areas of agronomy, breeding, genetics, and potential pathogens. Cropping systems based on maintaining biodiversity across landscapes are essential for a sustainable production and to mitigate impact of pathogens and pests.
4292995|Embryogenesis and callus formation in Camellia japonica L., cv. Elegans and cv. Ville de Nantes (>50 yr old), were higher when anthers at tetrad stage or early uninucleate microspore stage were used. Direct embryo formation was obtained, both in anthers and anther-petaloids. Embryogenesis only occurred under light on modified Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine (MS10). Embryo production was higher from petaloids (2.2 to 3.5 embryos/petaloid) than from anther locules (1.2 to 1.5 embryos/anther). However, petaloid-derived embryos aborted by Week 10 of culture. The embryogenic efficiency of anthers was 5.3% for cv. Elegans and 4.1% for cv. Ville de Nantes. Scanning electron microscopy images showed that anther-derived globular embryos were covered by a layer of material of smooth texture. Shoot regeneration efficiency by organogenesis was 6.8%. Regeneration by embryogenesis was 60% for cv. Ville de Nantes and 97.5% for cv. Elegans.
25623029|Using seedlings derived from the shoot apex of annatto (Bixa orellana L. cv. Bico-de-Pato) we observed the rooting frequency of B. orellana, the number and length of roots and the rate of ethylene production during 30 d in culture. The rhizogenesis response was affected by auxins (NAA or IBA) and by both the ethylene biosynthesis precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) and the inhibitor 2-aminoethoxyvinylglycine (AVG). Auxin supplementation to the medium resulted in root induction, ethylene production, and an undesirable callusing in the epidermal and cortical tissues. Irrespective of the presence of auxins, supplementing the medium with ACC promoted ethylene biosynthesis and callusing, which resulted in increased cell proliferation mainly in the cortical and vascular tissues, while the epidermis was mostly unaltered. In both ACC and auxin-supplemented medium, increased ethylene production and callusing occurred, suggesting a synergistic effect between these two responses. ACC was capable of inducing adventitious root formation, but the roots produced had a wrinkled appearance when compared to normal roots. Conversely, AVG reduced ethylene production and callusing, while the epidermis, cortex, and inner tissues remained unaltered, regardless of the presence of auxins. AVG was beneficial in these aspects, although its application led to a reduction in the number of roots and in the average root length. In conclusion, it was not possible to establish a direct relation between ethylene and rooting, but we hypothesize that, under the experimental conditions described, ethylene may enhance tissue sensitivity to auxin. However, ethylene did not seem essential to the rhizogenesis process in annatto.
4293754|To achieve reliable stable transformation of sweet potato, we first developed efficient shoot regeneration for stem explants, leaf disks, and petioles of sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam.) cultivar Beniazuma. The shoot regeneration protocol enabled reproducible stable transformation mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105. The binary vector pIG121Hm contains the npt II (pnos) gene for kanamycin (Km) resistance, the hpt (p35S) gene for hygromycin (Hyg) resistance, and the gusA (p35S) reporter gene for
20064842|Somatic proembryos of mango (Mangifera indica L. cv. Hindi) were co-cultivated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain A208 harboring pTiT37-SE::pMON 9749 (9749 ASE). Transformed somatic proembryos capable of growing on selection medium containing 200 g/ml kanamycin produced the characteristic indigo blue precipitate in the presence of 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-glucuronic acid. These proembryos were chimeral consisting of transformed (blue) and nontransformed (yellow/white) cells. A stepwise selection strategy was found necessary to eliminate chimeras. a) Initial screening at 200 g/ml kanamycin to enable growth of transformed cells, b) further screening at 400 g/ml kanamycin to reduce chimeras, and c) recovery of pure transformed clones of proembryos in liquid selection medium with 100 g/ml kanamycin. The integration of the NPT II and GUS genes into mango genome was confirmed by Southern hybridization.
23326888|Pomegranate (Punica granatum L.) is known for its nutritional, medicinal, and ornamental importance. It is conventionally propagated by hardwood and softwood cuttings, but about 1 yr is needed before the rooted cuttings can be transplanted to the field. Propagation by seed is undesirable as populations are heterozygous and seed propagation leads to wide variations in tree and fruit characteristics. Several studies have been conducted on in vitro culture of pomegranate, and protocols have been developed for plant regeneration through organogenesis and embryogenesis from various types of explants. Tissue culture has enabled mass propagation of superior genotypes of both wild and cultivated varieties. However, successful application of tissue culture systems for genetic engineering of pomegranate is still limited. Molecular markers are essential for identification and discrimination of genotypes for genetic conservation, crop improvement, breeding programs, and commercialization of superior genotypes. These techniques may also be applicable to rapid identification and indexing of disease-free planting material. This review focuses on the biotechnological approaches that are being used for pomegranate improvement.
40793158|Powdery mildew, caused by the obligate biotrophic ascomycete Erysiphe necator, is one of the most destructive grapevine diseases worldwide. Cultivars of Vitis vinifera L, for wine and table grape production, are all susceptible to E. necator, whose attacks result in severe epidemics under the warm and dry conditions of the Mediterranean basin. The aim of the present study was to compare the susceptibility of different grapevine cultivars to E. necator by an in vitro assay for assessing the potentiality of this method in breeding programs for resistance to the pathogen. Leaves of 12 grapevine cultivars were spot-inoculated in vitro with about 10 conidia from five different isolates of E. necator, using colony growth and conidiation 3 wk post-inoculation as indicators of susceptibility to the disease. A remarkable difference was observed between highly susceptible cultivars like 'Baresana', 'Malvasia', 'Bianca', and 'Italia', and the less susceptible 'Alphonse Lavalle' and 'Ohanez', in accordance with their behavior in the field. No statistically significant differences were found in the virulence of E. necator isolates.
20064854|Thidiazuron (TDZ) was utilized to induce adventitious shoot formation from the hypocotyl region of cultured seed explants of peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.). Excision of the radicle from seed explants was more stimulatory to shoot initiation than removal of the epicotyl alone. Removal of both the radicle and the epicotyl from seeds resulted in a 37-fold increase in the frequency of shoot production when compared to intact seeds. Half seed explants with epicotyl and radicle removed produced the greatest number of shoots per explant. Explants from mature seeds were more responsive to TDZ than immature seed-derived explants. A 1-wk exposure to 10 M TDZ was sufficient to stimulate the initiation of adventitious shoots that subsequently developed into plants. High frequency of shoot initiation was readily induced in a variety of genotypes of A. hypogaea and a wild peanut (A. glabrata). Plants regenerated from shoots induced by TDZ were phenotypically normal and fertile.
20461740|An efficient somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration system was developed from shoot apex explants of finger millet, Eleusine coracana. Eight genotypes, CO 7, CO 9, CO 13, CO 14, GPU 26, GPU 28, GPU 45, and GPU 48, were assessed in this study. The maximum somatic embryogenic induction, at 98.6%, was obtained from explants cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 18.0 M dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 2.3 M kinetin. The highest number of shoot induction (26) was observed after transfer of embryonic callus to regeneration medium supplemented with 4.5 M thidiazuran and 4.6 M kinetin. Significant differences were observed between genotypes for somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration. GPU 45 gave the best response, while CO 7 was the least responsive under the culture conditions tested in this study. Regenerated plants were successfully rooted and grown to maturity after hardening in soil.
4293228|Considerable progress has recently been made in understanding adventitious root formation using physiological studies. It is recognized that rooting is a process consisting of distinct phases, each with its own requirements. In this review, the successive phases in the rooting process are described and the possible roles of wounding-related compounds, auxin, ethylene and phenolic compounds during these specific phases are discussed. Recent results are assisting the development of advanced rooting treatments. Molecular studies on rooting are underway and will be essential in revealing the mechanisms underlying adventitious root formation.
4293670|A sugar beet transformation method was developed using particle bombardment of short-term suspension cultures of a breeding line FC607. Highly embryogenic suspension cultures derived from leaf callus were bombarded with the uidA (gusA) reporter gene under the control of either the osmotin or proteinase inhibitor II gene promoter, and the npt II selectable marker gene. Transient uidA expression was visualized as 500-4000 blue units per 200 mg of bombarded cells 2d after bombardment. Stably-transformed calluses were recovered on both kanamycin and paromomycin media. The greatest number of GUS (+) calluses was obtained when 50 or
20541004|Efficient vegetative cloning in vitro requires definition of plant growth regulator regimes for each genotype, and therefore formulation of a uniform culture protocol for a genetically heterogeneous wild or uncultivated plant population is often impossible. The likelihood of cloning a wide array of plant genotypes by avoiding the use of plant growth regulator(s) was explored with Moringa oleifera Lamk., Moringa stenopetala (Baker f.) Cufod, and Moringa peregrina Forssk. ex Fiori tree seedlings. Propagation was achieved by multiple shoot regeneration from the cotyledonary node of decapitated seedlings, followed by axillary shoot growth from single node shoot segments and rooting of excised shoots. All steps were accomplished on basal Murashige and Skoog medium without plant growth regulator supplements. The results revealed competence for generation of multiple shoots from cotyledonary node tissue, stimulated by repeated shoot harvest, in seedlings of all three tree species. Tens of plants per seedling were regenerated in about 4 mo from culture initiation. In a given species clone size was seedling-dependent, which presumably stems from genotypic variability among seedlings in regeneration ability in vitro. By this means the laborious search for a plant growth regulator regime suitable for organogenesis induction and adapted per genotype became redundant, and biodiversity of the seed germplasm could be maintained. The approach ideally suits establishment of clones of wild plants of endangered species, like those of the Moringaceae, species with high ability for producing supplementary shoots, and without the need to add plant growth regulators, including the rooting stage.
42568876|Hyperhydricity is a physiological abnormality that frequently affects shoots that are vegetatively propagated in vitro. In this study, sugar beet (Beta vulgaris L. cv. Felicita) shoot tip expiants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with different concentrations of polyethylene glycol (PEG) 6000. We observed that higher concentrations of PEG 6000 and longer exposure (up to 4 wk) resulted in increasing levels of hyperhydration as well as browning and/or blackening of tissues in culture. A comparison of hyperhydric shoots with controls on the 28th day showed a marked increase in the content of water, phenolics, and malondialdehyde (MDA), which was positively correlated with an increase in the accumulation of PEG 6000. Selected antioxidant enzyme activities, including Superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), guaiacol peroxidase (POX), and polyphenol oxidase (PPO) also increased in hyperhydric shoots, especially at lower concentrations of PEG 6000. Regression analysis indicated that strong linear relationships exist between SOD-APX (R = 0.932), SOD-CAT (R = 0.753), SOD-total phenolic content (R = 0.966), APX-PPO (R = 0.842), APX-total phenolic content (R = 0.904), POX-CAT (R = 0.751), and CAT-total phenolic content (R = 0.806). Despite the correlation between different antioxidant enzymes and between the antioxidant enzymes and antioxidant compounds, was not able to prevent ROS damage in hyperhydric shoots. The negative correlation between SODMDA, POXMDA, CATMDA, and MDAtotal phenolics also indicated an increase in antioxidant enzyme activities, yet the increase in these antioxidant compound contents did not prevent lipid peroxidation of in vitro propagated beet shoots.
4293888| Development of an efficient transformation method for recalcitrant crops such as sugar beet (Beta vulgaris L.) depends on identification of germplasm with relatively high regeneration potential. Individual plants of seven sugar beet breeding lines were screened for their ability to form adventitious shoots on leaf disk callus. Disks were excised from the first pair of true leaves of 3-wk-old seedlings or from partially expanded leaves of 8-mo.-old plants and cultured on medium with 4.4 M 6-benzylaminopurine for 10 wk. At 5 wk of culture, friable calluses and adventitious shoots began to develop. Rates of callus and shoot formation varied between breeding lines and between individual plants of the same line. Line FC607 exhibited the highest percentage (61%) of plants that regenerated shoots on explants. Among the plants with a positive shoot regeneration response, line FC607 also had the highest mean number (8.3  1.1) of shoots per explant. Individual plants within each line exhibited a wide range of percentages of explants that regenerated shoots. A similar variation was observed in the number of shoots that regenerated per explant of an individual plant. No loss of regeneration potential was observed on selected plants maintained in the greenhouse for 3 yr. Regenerated plants exhibited normal phenotypes and regeneration abilities comparable to the respective source plants. Based on our results, it is imperative to screen a large number of individual plants within sugar beet breeding lines in order to identify the high regenerators for use in molecular breeding and improvement programs. 
20064822|To identify possible reasons that may contribute to recalcitrance in plant protoplasts, the time course of new cell wall deposition was studied by scanning electron microscopy in protoplasts of a recalcitrant species, the grapevine. Results showed that microfibrils were developed after 2 days of culture, that complete cell wall formation occurred on Day 6 to 7 of protoplast culture, and its ultrastructural appearance was identical to that of grapevine leaf-derived callus cells. In addition, a comparative study was undertaken on [
4293857|Shoot cultures and callus cultures from roots and leaves of Hemidesmus indicus R. Br. (Asclepiadaceae) were established on Murashige and Skoog medium with various hormonal combinations. The production of antioxidants (lupeol, vanillin, and rutin) in shoot cultures, callus cultures derived from leaf cells and root cells, was compared with root and aerial portions of the parent plant. Shoot cultures and leaf callus cultures produced more antioxidants than root callus cultures. In vitro culture of this species might offer an alternative method for production of these important pharmaceuticals, which would reduce the collection pressure on this rare plant.
41496432|In China, the native Lanzhou lily (Lilium davidii var. unicolor) is used as an edible lily and is an important source of ascorbic acid. However, an efficient transformation system has not been developed for this important crop. Here, we describe the first successful genetic transformation mediated by particle bombardment in this lily variety. We used pCAMBIA-GLDH, which contains the l-galactono-1, 4-lactone dehydrogenase gene from apple, a hygromycin phosphotransferase gene as a selectable marker, and an intron-containing -glucuronidase gene as a reporter. In all, 35 transgenic lines were selected via GUS assays and PCR; from these, eight were confirmed by Southern analyses. Transgenic plants were transferred to soil and grown under greenhouse conditions. The levels of reduced ascorbate and total ascorbate (reduced ascorbate+oxidized ascorbate) in transgenic plants were found to be two to seven times those in non-transgenic controls.
4293654|Direct plant regeneration from flowering plant-derived lamina explants of Anthurium andraeanum Hort. cultivars Tinora Red and Senator was established on modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium. Cultivar difference, stage of source lamina and the position of explant in lamina, medium pH, and type of growth regulators significantly influenced direct plant regeneration. Explants from young brown lamina were superior to young green lamina. The half-strength MS medium containing
23016608|The subject of investigation was Chrysanthemum x grandiflorum (Ramat.) Kitam., 'Satinbleu'. Leaf explants and internodes were excised from the middle part of the donor sterile plant. Two methods of explant inoculation were applied: explants were placed polarly and horizontally. Modified MS medium (Murashige and Skoog 1962), supplemented with 11.4 M indoleacetic acid and 2.7 M 6-benzylaminopurine, were prepared to induce adventitious bud formation. Four dates of explant inoculation on the medium were tested: January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15. Thus, regeneration occurred in winter, spring, summer, and autumn. In the present study, a more intensive regeneration in 'Satinbleu' chrysanthemum was observed in summer and autumn than in spring and winter, irrespective of the kind of explant and the inoculation method.
4293521|The effects of DNA hypomethylating drugs (azacytidine and ethionine) on induction of microspore-derived calluses and embryos were studied in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cv. Igri. The results were as follows: (1) Yield of calluses and embryos pretreated with the different concentrations of azacytidine for 3 d was several-fold higher than that of the control. The highest yield of calluses and embryos in all treatments appeared at a concentration of
40981339|Somatic embryogenesis induction from in vitro cultured stamens and carpels is highly dependent on expiants' inoculation at specific developmental stages. To establish good correlations between measurable morphometric parameters of flowers or flower buds and developmental stages of micro-and macrosporogenesis, this procedure is the easiest way to simplify the in vitro culture procedures. These correlations were established here for the most important Iberian grapevine cultivar, the "Aragonez", named "Tempranillo" in Spain and "Tinta Roriz" in the north of Portugal, and were based in floral buds and anther measurements. The anther length, with a correlation coefficient of 0.90, proved to be the best morphometric parameter to follow microsporogenesis evolution. A correlation between micro-and macrosporogenesis evolutionary stages was also positively established, allowing the use of morphometric parameters for tracking ovule evolution as well. Carpels in several evolutionary stages were in vitro cultured to evaluate the aging effect on the capacity for somatic embryogenesis induction. Expiants inoculated in the earliest stages of macrosporogenesis presented the best results. Media culture formulations were also tested for ovary culture, with the best results being achieved with a 5:1 auxin/cytokinin ratio.
41432436|Interest in alternative fuel sources has grown in recent years in response to a confluence of factors, including concerns over our reliance on and increasing demand for fossil fuels as well as the deleterious environmental effects of fossil fuel extraction and utilization. The use of microbederived fuel alcohols is a viable alternative, as they are renewable, emit fewer greenhouse gasses, and require little augmentation of current energy infrastructure as compared to other sustainable transportation options such as electric vehicles and fuel cells. Here, we present a brief overview of candidate substrates for alcohol production with a focus on lignocellulosic sources, relevant microorganisms under research for industrialization and the biotechnological techniques used to improve alcohol production phenotypes.
4293908|Although seeds have been the subject of extensive studies for many years, their seed coats are just beginning to be examined from the perspective of molecular genetics and control of development. The seed coat plays a vital role in the life cycle of plants by controlling the development of the embryo and determining seed dormancy and germination. Within the seed coat are a number of unique tissues that undergo differentiation to serve specific functions in the seed. A large number of genes are known to be specifically expressed within the seed coat tissues; however, very few of them are understood functionally. The seed coat synthesizes a wide range of novel compounds that may serve the plant in diverse ways, including defense and control of development. Many of the compounds are sources of industrial products and are components of food and feeds. The use of seed coat biotechnology to enhance seed quality and yield, or to generate novel components has not been exploited, largely because of lack of knowledge of the genetic systems that govern seed coat development and composition. In this review, we will examine the recent advances in seed coat biology from the perspective of structure, composition and molecular genetics. We will consider the diverse avenues that are possible for seed coat biotechnology in the future. This review will focus principally on the seed coats of the Brassicaceae and Fabaceae as they allow us to merge the areas of molecular biology, physiology and structure to gain a perspective on the possibilities for seed coat modifications in the future.
40793225|In traditional in vitro culture, the low CO concentration inside the vessels restricts photosynthesis and necessitates the addition of sucrose to the culture medium as the main energy source, thus bringing about changes in the absorption of mineral elements from the culture medium. In this study, we investigated macronutrient absorption and sugar consumption in Actinidia deliciosa Chevalier Liang and Ferguson cv. Hayward (kiwi), cultured on medium supplemented with varying amounts of sucrose (0, 10, and 20 g 1 ) under both heterotrophy and autotrophy, flushed with different concentrations of CO (non-ventilation, 300, 600, and 2,000  1 1 ). In ventilated systems with 20 g 1 of sucrose, sucrose absorption was less than under non-ventilation. The lowest rate of sucrose absorption was recorded when the expiants were cultured on medium supplemented with 20 g 1 of sucrose and flushed with 600 1 1 CO . Absorption of NO, PO, and Mg were high (maximum) at the end of the culture period (40 d) in expiants flushed with 600  1 CO that have been cultured 20 d in the presence of sucrose and then transferred to a sucrose-free medium. These autotrophic conditions promoted maximum plant growth in terms of both fresh and dry mass as well as the length and number of shoots and leaves. The study shows that to maintain an optimum regime of mineral nutrition for prolonged culture of kiwi in vitro, an increased amount of these three ions should be supplemented in Murashige and Skoog's medium.
20541046|Rice has emerged as a model monocot for studies in agriculture and biotechnology due to its relatively small genome and a ready accessibility to plant material. Tissue culture is one of the tools required for genetic transformation and some breeding programs, and the selection of high-frequency regenerator types is essential for success in these technologies. Thirty-three rice entries with agricultural and biotechnological characteristics of interest were screened with the aim to identify the best regenerators. Entries that exhibited between 50% and 90% regeneration frequencies include 'Taipei-309,' 'Super Dwarf,' 'Norin' (japonica types), PI 312777, 'Ali Combo' (indica types), 'STG-S,' and 'LA3' (red rice types). One third of the entries tested were at least two times better at regeneration than the oftencited regenerator 'Nipponbare.' Those entries showing at least 85% frequency of greening or somatic embryo formation at 15 or 30 d on regeneration medium ultimately produced whole plants after 45 d on regeneration medium at high frequency (at least 40%); those entries not reaching the 85% threshold of greening by Days 15 or 30 exhibited moderate (15-40%) to low (less than 10%) frequency of whole plant regeneration. This greening response suggests the means for an early prediction system for identification of useful rice regenerator lines, which would be beneficial for high-throughput screening of germplasm as well as for decreasing the time and cost of in vitro culture.
23016744|Sugarcane breeding, while key to continued improvement of pest and disease resistance and to increasing sucrose and biomass yields, is constrained by the length of time taken to release a new cultivar (10 14 yr). Forty years of international research into sugarcane in vitro culture has delivered many well-developed systems that are routinely applied to research and commercial activities, namely: (a) micropropagation of genotypes; (b) production of disease-free material from excised apical meristems; (c) international germplasm exchange; (d) generation of somaclones; (e) rapid disease and pest resistance screening; and (f) germplasm conservation. This review outlines several in vitro techniques, discussing how protocols have been tailored to address pertinent research issues and exploring possible commercial applications in the sugar industry to reduce the time frame to release a new cultivar and decrease demands on resources such as land and labour.
4292967|Cell suspensions of Musa acuminata ssp burmannicoides and Musa acuminata ssp malaccensis were obtained by culturing embryogenic callus initiated from immature zygotic embryos in liquid medium. Plant regeneration was then achieved through somatic embryogenesis. Germination of these embryos occurred in a modified MS medium containing auxin and cytokinin. Plant recovery frequencies were 20 to 36%. This method may allow a better utilization of biotechnologies in genetic improvement of the Musa diploid species, essential for banana and plantain breeding.
4293878|The development of robust plant regeneration technology in cereals, dicots and ornamentals that is in turn coupled to a high-frequency DNA transfer technology is reported. Transgenic cereals that include maize, Tripsacum, sorghum, Festuca and Lolium, in addition to dicots that include soybean, cotton and various ornamentals such as petunia, begonia, and geranium have been produced following either somatic embryogenesis or direct organogenesis independent of genotype. Coupled with these regeneration protocols, we have also identified several interesting genes and promoters for incorporation into various crops and ornamentals. In addition, the phenomenon of direct in vitro flowering from cotyledonary nodes in soybean is described. In in vitro flowering, the formation of a plant body is suppressed and the cells of the cotyledonary node produce complete flowers from which fertile seed is recovered. This in vitro flowering technology serves as a complementary tool to chloroplast transformation for developing a new transgenic pollen containment strategy for crop species. Recently, the center has undertaken to screen the expression response of the 24 000 Arabidopsis genes to nitric oxide. This signaling molecule upregulated 342 genes and downregulated 80 genes. The object here was to identify a population of promoters that can be manipulated by using a signaling molecule. In addition, in keeping with the mission of enhancing greenhouse profitability for North West Ohio growers, we cloned a number of genes responsive for disease resistance from ornamentals that play an important role in disease management and abiotic stress. We have constructed a plant transformation vector with CBF3 gene under the rd29A promoter for engineering cold and freezing tolerance in petunia. Leaf discs of Petunia x hybrida v26 were used for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, and 44 hygromycin-resistant TO plants were obtained. The presence of CBF3 gene was confirmed in all the transgenic plants by PCR and Southern analyses.
4293020|A field test was established in 1987 to evaluate the growth of micropropagated black cherry plantlets and control seedlings. The study also evaluated effects of two container types on initial survival and growth and of pruning on stem form and growth. At the time of field establishment, plantlets had more extensive root systems than the control seedlings. Survival and height growth were not influenced by container size. Through the first three growing seasons, seedlings were larger than micropropagated plants, but growth differences diminished in the fourth through sixth seasons. Pruning increased the length of clear stem by nearly five-fold but adversely affected diameter growth. Although all clones were from ortet trees more than 50 yr old, none showed plagiotropic growth. Six-year results showed that in a well-prepared and maintained plantation, black cherry trees derived from tissue culture can have at least 80% survival, and growth rates in excess of 1 m per year.
4293015|The last decade has witnessed successful applications of plant tissue culture techniques in several crops. During that same period, studies in plant molecular genetics have also grown exponentially. Molecular markers (isozymes, RFLPs, and PCR-based markers such as RAPDs) are now used to study many of the current limitations of tissue culture. They have been used to investigate mechanisms that underlie somaclonal variation in the nuclear, mitochondrial, and chloroplast genomes. One recurrent problem with several tissue culture systems has been the difficulty of determining the origin of regenerants. Molecular markers represent powerful tools to determine precisely the origin of plants derived from microspore or anther culture, protoplast fusion, and other tissue culture studies where this information is important. With improvements in tissue culture techniques, populations of doubled haploid lines have been produced in several major crop species. Doubled haploid populations have proven useful in the production of molecular maps and in tagging important agronomic traits. This review describes the use of molecular markers to address fundamental and practical questions of plant tissue culture, and discusses the potential of improvements in molecular techniques and new molecular markers such as SCAR and STS along with high-resolution mapping strategies.
4293837|To overcome various disadvantages of conventional culture vessels for plant micropropagation, we previously developed the photoautotrophic micropropagation technique, with special mention for the first practical film culture system, the 'Miracle Pack' (MP), which was made of fluorocarbon polymer film (Neoflon[REGISTERED TRADE MARK SIGN] PFA film) and supported by a polycarbonate frame. While the PFA film has superior thermal stability, high light transmittance, and high gas permeability, making the MP system (MP-PFA) superior to conventional culture vessels for the micropropagation of various plant species, its high cost is a disadvantage. In this study, a possible alternative of lower-cost OTP[REGISTERED TRADE MARK SIGN] film made of TPX (4-methyl-1-pentane polymer) and GPP (a polypropylene), which possesses similar characteristics to PFA film, is evaluated to develop a novel disposable film culture vessel, termed 'Vitron,' for culturing Eucalyptus (urophylla x grandis) plantlets. The three film culture systems, MP-PFA, MP-OTP (MP with OTP film), and Vitron, were placed under CO
4293333|The aptitude for organogenesis from normal hormone-dependent cultures very commonly decreases as the tissues are serially subcultured. The reasons for the loss of regenerative ability may vary under different circumstances: genetic variation in the cell population, epigenetic changes, disappearance of an organogenesis-promoting substance, etc. The same reasons may be evoked for the progressive and eventually irreversible loss of organogenic totipotency in the course of neoplastic progressions from hormone-independent tumors and hyperhydric teratomas to cancers. As in animal cells, plant cells at the end of a neoplastic progression have probably undergone several independent genetic accidents with cumulative effects. They indeed are characterized by atypical biochemical cycles from which they are apparently unable to escape. The metabolic changes are probably not the primary defects that cause cancer, rather they may allow the cells to survive. How these changes, namely an oxidative stress, affect organogenesis is not known. The literature focuses on somatic mutations and epigenetic changes that cause aberrant regulation of cell cycle genes and their machinery.
4293694|The use of plant genetic engineering to augment plant breeding programs is significantly strengthened if novel trait(s) can be introduced directly into elite germplasm. Implementing this technology to sorghum breeding programs has been hampered by the lack of an efficient and transferable protocol that is suitable with elite genotypes. This study was conducted to identify parameters that maximize in vitro culture performance in sorghum targeting a specific elite genotype, C2-97, which possesses enhanced agronomic characteristics. Three different tissue culture media formulations, MS, N6, and M11 were evaluated. M11 medium contains approximately 16% and 85% more total nitrogen and sevenfold and threefold higher levels of potassium phosphate than MS and N6 formulations, respectively. Culture performance of C2-97 across the three media formulations was compared to sorghum genotypes that were previously reported to be amenable to genetic engineering, namely Tx430, P898012, Bwheatland, and C401. Maximum embryogenesis induction was observed on M11 medium for all genotypes tested, with greater than 70% embryogenic calluses occurring on immature embryos derived from the C2-97 genotype cultured on M11 medium.
4293483| We studied the effect of - and -cyclodextrins on in vitro rooting of jojoba (Simmondsia chinensis (Link) Schn.) shoots. When 0.03-0.5 mM of cyclodextrins were added to modified Murashige and Skoog culture medium containing 0.015 mM of indolebutyric acid as 1-wk pulse treatment, rooting percentage increased by approximately 100% with respect to controls. Addition of cyclodextrins induced earlier rooting. An increase in rooting following treatment with cyclodextrins was also observed in the absence of indolebutyric acid, indicating that both compounds promote rooting per se. 
4293302|Tissue-specific patterns and levels of gene expression were characterized in transgenic Gladiolus plants that contained the phosphinothricin acetyltransferase
20171599|Rate of plant cell enlargement, measured at intervals of 3 min using a sensitive linear transducer, oscillates with a minimum period of about 24 min that parallels the 24-min periodicity observed with the oxidation of NADH by the external plasma membrane NADH oxidase and of single cells measured previously by video-enhanced light microscopy. Also exhibiting 24-min oscillations is the steady-state rate of cell enlargement induced by the addition of the auxin herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or the natural auxin indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Immediately following 2,4-D addition, a very complex pattern of oscillations is frequently observed. However, after several hours a dominant 24-min period emerges. The length of the 24-min period is temperature compensated and remains constant at 24 min when measured at 15, 25 or 35C, despite the fact that the rate of cell enlargement approximately doubles for each 10C rise over this same range of temperatures.
4292965|Fertile transgenic maize plants (T
23016597|The endangered tree Gomortega keule remains only in small, isolated populations surrounded by timber plantations in the biodiversity hotspot of central Chile. This species, belonging to the monotypic family Gomortegaceae, produces edible fruit and high-quality wood, but its difficult propagation makes conservation essential. The percentage of seed germination is less than 40%, germination time exceeds 12 mo, and cuttings fail to root. These difficulties have stimulated efforts to explore in vitro approaches for propagation. Cultures were established from zygotic embryos; the optimum culture conditions for shoot proliferation were semi-solid Woody Plant Medium (WPM) with 20 g/l sucrose, 0.1 mg/l -naphthaleneacetic acid and 1.0 mg/l 6-benzylaminopurine, at 18C. Explants required about 12 mo in culture before stabilized growth resulted in consistent shoot production. Regenerated shoots excised from parental explants developed a normal morphology 1 mo after transfer to WPM with 2.0 g/l of activated charcoal, and lacking plant growth regulators. These normal shoots were rooted with a treatment of 7 d on WPM without activated charcoal, but containing 20 mg/l indole-3-butyric acid, followed by return to the same medium with 2.0 g/l activated charcoal, without growth regulators, for 1 mo. Regenerated plants were transferred to compost and covered with transparent plastic sleeves. The latter were opened gradually to decrease humidity and to establish plants under glasshouse conditions. There is an urgent requirement to extend this protocol to material collected from diverse sites and to introduce micropropagated specimens into the wild and living plant repositories to conserve this endangered species.
4293945|The effect of 3-indoleacetic acid (IAA), 6-furfurylaminopurine (kinetin), and gibberellic acid (GA
20064915|Over 500 independent transgenic rice plants have been obtained by the biolistic method with an average transformation frequency of 9.7% for japonica variety Taipei 309. A tight selection procedure using 50 mg/l of hygromycin B successfully prevented the growth of nontransformed tissues. Analysis of the T0 transgenic rice plants revealed that more than 97% of the transgenic plants were morphologically normal and more than 80% were at least partially fertile. The
4293289|Linseed flax (Linum usitatissimum L.) was transformed by bombarding hypocotyl tissues with gold particles coated with plasmid DNA carrying the
4293825|Traditional breeding has been widely used in forestry. However, this technique is inefficient because trees have a long and complex life cycle that is not amenable to strict control by man. Fortunately, the development of genetic engineering is offering new ways of breeding and allowing the incorporation of new traits in plant species through the introduction of foreign genes (transgenes). The introduction of selected traits can be used to increase the productivity and commercial value of trees and other plants. For example, some species have been endowed with resistance to herbicide and pathogens such as insects and fungi. Also, it has been possible to introduce genes that modify development and wood quality, and induce sexual sterility. The development of transgenic trees has required the implementation of in vitro regeneration techniques such as organogenesis and somatic embryogenesis. Release of transgenic species into the agricultural market requires a standardized biosafety regulatory frame and effective communication between the scientific community and society to dissipate the suspicions associated with transgenic products.
4293803|The growth retardant ancymidol inhibited gibberellin biosynthesis and enhanced hyperhydric malformation of Narcissus leaf sections cultured in liquid medium. Superoxide dismutase activities were examined by spectrophotometry and native polyacrylamide gel analysis, and gibberellin and hydrogen peroxide levels were determined spectrophotometrically in either hyperhydric or non-hyperhydric leaf sections. In ancymidol-treated hyperhydric leaf sections, superoxide dismutase activity and hydrogen peroxide levels were higher during the initial culture period, when hyperhydric malformation occurred, than in control untreated leaf sections. At a later stage, when the meristematic centers started to form on ancymidol-enhanced hyperhydric leaf sections, superoxide dismutase activity, hydrogen peroxide, and gibberellin levels were significantly lower in hyperhydric leaf sections than in non-treated leaf sections. The changes in superoxide dismutase activities, hydrogen peroxide, and gibberellin levels appeared to be related to hyperhydric malformation and meristematic center initiation.
4293864|In vitro collecting is the process of initiating tissue cultures in the field. In order for in vitro collecting to be broadly available as a technique for collecting plant germplasm, the levels of contamination in such cultures must be controlled. Two techniques for in vitro collecting were compared: leaf punch and needle collecting. The effectiveness of these methods for collecting leaf and stem tissues from plants at tropical and temperate sites was compared. Stem tissue collected by the needle collecting method gave cultures with an average contamination percentage of 31% and 16%, from the tropical and temperate sites, respectively, while with the leaf punch method, average contamination percentages were 90% and 69%. The effectiveness of antimicrobial agents in reducing contamination in leaf punch cultures was evaluated. Addition of the fungicide benlate and the antibiotics, cefotaxime and vancomycin, to the leaf punch collections reduced contamination to an average of 30% in the tropical collections and 35% in the temperate collections. Over 90% of both tropical and temperate species collected in multiple samples of 10 or more had at least one clean sample using this medium. The use of either the leaf punch method in combination with a fungicide and antibiotics or the needle collecting technique yielded a high percentage of clean tissues for study and growth.
4293014|Callus capable of plant regeneration was initiated at a higher frequency from the basal leaves of in vitro plants (70% explants) as compared to cormel slices (30% explants) when cultured on medium containing various concentrations of auxin. The greatest number of plants were regenerated from 4-mo.-old callus (112 plants/g fresh weight callus) cultured on medium containing 10 mg/liter (
4293784|Adventitious root and shoot formation was obtained from cotyledon fragments of chestnut (Castanea sativa Mill.) and these processes followed two phases. In a first stage after detachment of the embryonic axis, the cotyledon fragments in culture formed a cotyledon petiole, which elongated for about 6d. Thereafter, root primordia arose at the tip of the cotyledon petioles, followed by normal root development. In some cases, the cotyledon petioles showed adventitious shoot regeneration from a nodular structure previously formed at the end of the petioles. The presence or absence of growth regulators did not significantly influence root regeneration, whereas cytokinins stimulated shoot formation. The processes of root and shoot differentiation were studied also at the histological level. Observation with a light microscope showed that the developing root apical meristems were connected with a vascular bundle of the cotyledon petiole. Similarly, shoot bud meristem connections were observed with vascular tissue inside the nodular structure.
4293618|Use of lysozyme was tested for treatment of bacterial contaminations in in vitro shoot cultures of quince (Cydonia oblonga) 'BA 29' and the hybrid (Prunus persica x P. amygdalus) rootstock 'GF 677'. Shoots which had been contaminated for about 1 yr by Bacillus circulans and Sphingomonas paucimobilis were treated in liquid culture, at pH 4.5, with
42568437|Three Daphne species (Thymelaeaceae) were propagated in vitro using media enriched with natural ingredients including coconut water, pineapple pulp, arabinogalactan, chitosan, and conditioned medium containing exudates of the green alga Desmodesmus subspicatus.High vigor of proliferative shoots and enhanced rooting efficiency were obtained.The propagation rate for shoot cultures of Daphne caucasica and Daphne tangutica increased significantly when cultured in the presence of 10 mlL- coconut water or 10 mlL- pineapple pulp. Addition of 10 mlL- pineapple pulp, 10 mlL- coconut water, or 20% conditioned medium to the culture medium stimulated organogenesis in D. caucasica. The percentage of rooted shoots in this difficult-to-root species reached 80% in enriched medium. Daphne jasminea plants rooted efficiently on media without growth regulators but supplemented with 10 mlL- pineapple pulp or 10 mlL- coconut water. Plants of D. caucasica and D. jasminea were successfully acclimatized to greenhouse conditions. Biochemical evaluation of pineapple pulp using thin-layer chromatography revealed the absence of natural auxins. However, the low-molecular-weight fraction (<500 Da) obtained via dialysis significantly stimulated rhizogenesis in each species tested.
23016743|Selectable marker genes (SMGs) are still useful to efficiently obtain transgenic plants, although marker-free techniques are available, but with limitations. The presence of SMGs, especially bacterial antibiotic resistance genes, in transgenic crops is criticized. Fortunately, several genes isolated from plants are available that can serve as SMGs. Here, I review the plant genes reported to have been used as SMGs. Some are wild-type genes that, when overexpressed, confer a selective advantage during in vitro plant regeneration, whereas some are mutated genes encoding enzymes resistant to inhibitory chemicals. Most of the genes have not yet been tested in a significant number of species. The effect of SMGs expression on the phenotype has often been superficially examined and should be better characterized. The sequence conservation of some SMGs could allow derivation of a SMGs from any plant species, if an intragenic or cisgenic approach to genetic engineering is preferred. I conclude that several promising SMGs have been isolated from plants, allowing avoidance of bacterial genes for transformation, transgene stacking, and intragenic or cisgenic engineering approaches. Nonetheless, further testing in more plant species would be useful to fully assess phenotypic neutrality, efficiency, and versatility. Patent rights restrict the immediate use of most plant SMGs for commercial applications, but freely available marker systems do exist.
4292986|Commercialization and marketing of agricultural products derived from recombinant DNA technologies is now becoming a reality. Genetically engineered tomatoes are poised to appear in supermarket shelves in the United States sometime next year, with other crops, including cotton, maize, soybean, rapeseed, potatoes, cucurbids, raspberries and others, scheduled for release 1 to 2 yr later (Hamilton and Ellis, 1992). One of the major breakthroughs responsible for the rapid creation of commercializable products has been the development of gene transfer methods capable of introducing foreign DNA into elite germplasm. This review examines some of the principles and applications of such gene transfer technologies in relation to conventional alternatives that are limited by cell culture, host, and genotype. Advantages and disadvantages of various gene transfer methods will be discussed. Special emphasis will be given to particle bombardment, as methods based on this technology paved the way for the engineering of a number of important agronomic species.
23321148|Cold acclimation is the process which leads to the development of freezing tolerance in plants. It is a multigenic process requiring a programmed and integrated genetic capacity to put the appropriate mechanisms into place for plants to withstand the adverse environment. A plethora of genes are expressed in response to low temperature, and the molecular responses associated with the induction of their expression are complex. Nevertheless, significant advances have been made in the field of abiotic stress tolerance in the past 10 years. Several genes, including the WCS120 gene family from wheat, have been studied extensively to gain insight into the molecular events leading to the expression of cold-inducible genes and cognate proteins. I will review the recent advances in our understanding of the transcriptional, post-transcriptional, and post-translational events involved in the response to the low temperature stimulus. The knowledge gained from these studies should allow the establishment of strategies aimed at the improvement of freezing/cold tolerance in economically important crops.
4293646|An efficient in vitro plant regeneration system from cotyledons was established in tetraploid Isatis indigotica Fort. Factors influencing shoot regeneration from cotyledons, including culture medium type, combinations of plant growth regulators, and sucrose concentrations in the medium, as well as illumination were investigated. Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium was found to be best for promoting shoot regeneration, followed by Gamborg's B
23016589|The use of in vitro techniques for conservation has been rising steadily since their inclusion in The Convention on Biological Diversity and The Global Strategy for Plant Conservation. Unfortunately, bryophytes are often overlooked in conservation initiatives, but they are important in a number of large-scale ecosystem processes, i.e. nutrient, water and carbon cycling. There is a long history of the use of tissue culture in cultivating bryophytes, and many species respond well to in vitro techniques. For 6 yr (20002006), The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew and the UK statutory conservation agencies supported a project for the ex situ conservation of bryophytes. Living and cryopreserved collections of UK threatened species were successfully established and the cryopreserved collection continues to be maintained. Other in vitro conservation collections are maintained over Europe, at botanic gardens, museums and by individual university researchers, but there is no coherent European collection of bryophytes for conservation, or standardisation of techniques. A major issue for many in vitro collections is the maintenance of within species genetic diversity. Such diversity is considered to be important, as it is the basis by which populations of species can adapt to new conditions and evolve. We are proposing to establish a European network for in vitro conservation of bryophytes. We envisage that this will include living collections, cryopreserved collections and spore collections. Conservation of genetic diversity would be a priority and the collections would provide a valuable resource for conservation initiatives and support research into rare and threatened species.
4293337|The present work provides a system for regeneration of clary sage (Salvia sclarea L.) via organogenesis using plant tissue culture techniques in a multistage culturing medium containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) (
20064869|The sugarcane mosaic virus is a pathogen that causes severe disease to sugarcane. New varieties resistant to insects and pathogens have been developed in the last 70 yr through sugarcane breeding programs, but this takes between 10 and 15 yr. Tissue culture techniques are used as an aid for sugarcane improvement to increase desirable agronomic characteristics, such as disease resistance. In the present work, we report the generation of somaclonal variants from sugarcane (Saccharum spp.) cultivar PR62258 susceptible to Sugarcane Mosaic Virus, by somatic embryogenesis. These new variants identified as AT626 and BT627 are resistant to Sugarcane Mosaic Virus strains A and B, respectively. We established an indirect enzyme linked inmunosorbent assay (ELISA) to test the presence of the viral particles in plants, and it was demonstrated that the leaves of resistant somaclones do not contain viral particles. The field performance of the somaclones AT626 and BT627 was similar to the field performance of the mother plant PR62258.
20461752|Podophyllum peltatum is an important medicinal plant that produces podophyllotoxin (PTOX) with anti-cancer properties. We established the embryogenic cell and adventitious root culture systems in P. peltatum and analyzed PTOX production. For the growth of embryogenic cell clumps in shake flask culture, the most efficient concentration of 2,4-dichloroacetic acid (2,4-D) was 6.78 M, and the growth of embryogenic cell clumps was 15.9-fold increased in Murashige and Skoog MS liquid medium with 6.78 M 2,4-D after 3 wk of culture. To induce adventitious roots, half-strength MS medium showed the best results for adventitious root induction compared to full strength MS medium and MS medium lacking NHNO. Optimal indole-3-butyric acid concentration for adventitious root formation was 14.78 M. In liquid medium, the frequency of adventitious root formation from root segments was 87.7% and the number of laterally formed adventitious roots was 22.3 per segment. PTOX production in embryogenic cells and adventitious roots was confirmed by liquid chromatography and electro-spray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry analysis. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis revealed that adventitious roots contained higher PTOX than embryogenic cell clumps. Elicitor treatment (20 M methyl jasmonate) strongly enhanced the production of PTOX in both embryogenic cell clumps and adventitious roots. This observation suggests that both embryogenic cell and adventitious root culture can be adopted to produce PTOX.
20461551|A translational fusion between the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) and neomycin phosphotransferase (NPTII) genes was used to optimize parameters influencing Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of Vitis vinifera L. cv. Thompson Seedless. The corresponding bifunctional protein produced from this EGFP/NPTII fusion gene allowed for a single promoter to drive expression of both green fluorescence and kanamycin resistance, thus conserving promoter resources and eliminating potential promoter-promoter interactions. The fusion gene, driven by either a double cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (CaMV 35S) promoter or a double cassava vein mosaic virus (CsVMV) promoter, was immobilized into Agrobacterium strain EHA 105. Somatic embryos capable of direct secondary embryogenesis were used as target tissues to recover transgenic plants. Simultaneous visualization of GFP fluorescence and kanamycin selection of transgenic cells, tissues, somatic embryos, and plants were achieved. GFP expression and recovery of embryogenic culture lines were used as indicators to optimize transformation parameters. Preculturing of somatic embryos for 7d on fresh medium prior to transformation minimized Agrobacterium-induced tissue browning/necrosis. Alternatively, browning/necrosis was reduced by adding 1 g l of the antioxidant dithiothreitol (DTT) to post co-cultivation wash media. While combining preculture with antioxidant treatments did not result in a synergistic improvement in response, either treatment resulted in recovery of more stable embryogenic lines than did the control. A 48 h co-cultivation period combined with 75 mg l kanamycin in selection medium was optimal. DNA analysis confirmed stable integration of transgenes into the grape genome; 63% had single gene insertions, 27% had two inserts, and 7 and 3% had three and four inserts, respectively. Utilizing optimized procedures, over 1400 stable independent transgenic embryogenic culture lines were obtained, of which 795 developed into whole plants. Transgenic grapevines have exhibited normal vegetative morphology and stable transgene expression for over 5 yr.
4293048|The culture conditions for direct, indirect, and repetitive embryogenesis were established for Camellia japonica cv. Elegans and cv. Ville de Nantes. Direct embryo production from leaves averaged 15.3 embryos per responsive leaf on Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) with
20461712|Nodal shoot segments of four grapevine genotypes well known for their Fe-chlorosis characteristic [Vitis vinifera  Vitis berlandieri Fercal, resistant; V. berlandieri  Vitis rupestris 1103 P, mid-resistant; Solonis (Vitis riparia  V. rupestris  Vitis candicans)  Othello (Vitis labrusca  V. riparia  V. vinifera) 1613 C, susceptible; V. vinifera L. cv. Perlette, resistant] were cultured in vitro. The effects of three levels of iron sodium ethylene-diaminotetraacetate (FeNaEDTA; 9, 18, 36 mg l) and three mixtures of iron and 840 mg l NaHCO (sodium bicarbonate) in the Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented 4.9 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) were compared. We assayed the chlorosis rating of leaves, total chlorophyll of leaves, dry shoot weights of the plantlets, and active and total Fe content of the leaves. The most suitable concentration in determining the reaction of genotypes to iron chlorosis was 9 mg l FeNaEDTA. Bicarbonate addition had negative effects on the iron intake and development of plants. While all genotypes were affected by non-ferrous conditions, Fercal and Perlette were found to be the most resistant genotypes and 1613 C rootstock as the most susceptible. The chlorosis rating of the tested genotypes ranked according to their known degree of tolerance and susceptibility to lime-induced chlorosis. The results of this study showed that the in vitro technique could successfully be used in viticulture to get results in shorter times in the studies, aiming at breeding new rootstocks and varieties suitable to calcareous soil conditions and determining the reactions of existing genotypes to Fe chlorosis.
4292945|We describe a method for obtaining and proliferating multiple, fertile plants from somatic embryos of several experimental and commercial soybean varieties. Shoot-bud cultures were initiated by placing cotyledonary and torpedo-stage somatic embryos derived from immature seedling cotyledons onto Cheng's basal medium (CBO) containing 0.5 to 2.5 mg/liter 6-benzyladenine (6-BA). Prolific masses of adventitious shoots were produced within 6 to 18 wk. These cultures can be propagated indefinitely with regular subcultures to CBO containing 0.5 mg/liter 6-BA. Individual shoots were separated from the clusters and were rooted on CBO medium without exogenous growth regulators. By this method any number of plants can be produced from individual somatic embryos. The risk of losing valuable genotypes (e.g., derived from in vitro selection or transformation) due to inefficient embryo germination and embryo-to-plant conversion is thus greatly reduced. Plants were established in the greenhouse and progenies were field tested. Progenies from shoot-bud culture-derived plants showed no somaclonal variation for the seven recessive marker traits or quantitative agronomic characters evaluated under field conditions.
4293507|The genus Acacia comprises many species which are important for firewood, fodder, tannin, pulpwood, shelterbelts, and soil improvement. Species of Acacia are dispersed widely in tropical and subtropical regions of Australia, South America, Asia, and Africa. In the past, the majority of forest trees have been propagated through the traditional family forestry method, where trees are grown from seeds and propagated sexually. Clonal propagation through tissue culture offers an alternative to vegetative practices and has the potential to provide high multiplication rates of uniform genotypes, resulting in short-term gains. Extensive in vitro research and success have been achieved for a number of forest trees, including the Pinus, Eucalyptus, and Acacia species. Acacia mearnsii is fast becoming one of the most important trees in South African forestry. For this reason it is important to employ biotechnology to enable the industry to compete in the international market. However, for these procedures to be commercially viable, the post-culture performance in the field must be improved because the initial financial outlay is high. This review provides an overview on in vitro work done on the Acacia species.
20064950|When cotton (Gossypium hirsutum, DPL 90ne) ovules are removed from the carpel on the day of anthesis and placed on an appropriate medium, fiber cells will differentiate in vitro from the ovule epidermis. Alpha-amanitin, an inhibitor of poly (A) RNA synthesis was added to ovule cultures at selected times after culture initiation to determine the timing of events in fiber development. Replicate cultures were initiated from day of anthesis, cotton ovules with -amanitin being added to media at final concentrations ranging from 0.05 g/ml to 5.0 g/ml. After 21 d in culture, ovules were evaluated for fiber length, percentage of ovules producing fiber, fiber dry weight, and fiber cellulose content. Cultures treated with -amanitin on the day of anthesis to 2 d postanthesis were prevented from forming normal numbers of fiber cells. Addition of -amanitin to cultures between 2 and 10 d postanthesis reduced the length that fiber cells attained in culture after 21 d. Addition of -amanitin to cultures at 4 d postanthesis had as much an effect on the accumulation of cellulose in the fiber cell wall as the later addition of the inhibitor at 8 to 10 d postanthesis. The inhibitory effect of -amanitin on fiber growth was reversible when ovules were transferred to amanitin-free medium within 2 d after culture initiation. Ovules placed on media containing -amanitin for 5 d or longer could not overcome the inhibitory effects when transferred to media lacking the inhibitor. These results indicate critical time periods when RNA transcripts important for specific phases of development are being synthesized.
4293589|We present a strategy for establishing a transgenic doubled haploid maize line from heterozygous transgenic material by means of anther culture. Compared to conventional inbreeding, the in vitro androgenesis technique enables a faster generation of virtually fully homozygous lines. Since the androgenic response is highly genotype-dependent, we crossed transgenic, non-androgenic plants carrying a herbicide resistance marker gene (pat, encoding for phosphinothricin acetyl transferase) with a highly androgenic genotype. The transgenic progenies were used as donor plants for anther culture. One transgenic and three non-transgenic doubled haploid lines have been established within approximately 1yr. The homozygosity of all four doubled haploid lines was tested by analysis of simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers at 19 different loci. Polymorphisms were found between the lines but not within the lines, indicating the homozygous nature of the entire plant genome gained by anther culture. Southern blot analysis revealed that the transgenic donor plants and their doubled haploid progeny exhibited the same integration pattern of the pat gene. No segregation of the herbicide resistance trait has been observed among the progeny of the transgenic doubled haploid line.
25623024|The application of modern biotechnology for improvement of chili pepper productivity requires an efficient in vitro plant regeneration protocol. In this study, a reliable protocol was developed for the in vitro regeneration of four types of chili, Capsicum annuum var. annuum (Jalapeo and Serrano), C. annuum var. glabriusculum/aviculare (Piquin), and C. chinense (Habanero) by direct organogenesis using three different explants (cotyledon, hypocotyls, and embryo) and three induction media. All evaluated culture media promoted the formation of adventitious shoots. When embryos or hypocotyls were used as explants, morphologically normal adventitious shoots developed, while culturing cotyledons resulted in nonelongating rosette-shaped shoots. The highest in vitro regeneration efficiency (14.6 shoots per explant) was achieved when Habanero chili hypocotyls were grown on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 1.7 M indole-3-acetic acid and 22.2 M N-benzyladenine. This regeneration rate is higher than that obtained in previous reports. Regenerated plants were ready to be transferred to the greenhouse 13 wk after the explant culture. An evaluation carried out under greenhouse conditions showed differences in agronomic performance between in vitro regenerated plants and plants developed from seeds with the magnitude of the differences depending on the genotype being studied.
4293442|Osmoticum (high sucrose concentration) and chilling (4 C) treatments were assayed in order to promote germination (radicle elongation) and plant conversion of Quercus suber somatic embryos. Those treatments were applied before embryos were set to germinate on Murashige and Skoog (MS) liquid medium. Chilling for 2 mo. improved germination rate (best results close to 100%). On the other hand, that treatment increased plant conversion, especially when high sucrose concentration was used. The best results were obtained with
40663774|Residual nutrients from Murashige and Skoog medium were analyzed following a 5-wk multifactor experiment. Plant density, sugar concentration, and plant growth regulators (benzyladenine and ancymidol) were examined using four genotypes of daylily (Hemerocallis) to determine which factors most influenced nutrient use. Active nutrient uptake was observed for 11 nutrients (potassium, sodium, copper, phosphorus, iron, calcium, magnesium, manganese, boron, sulfur, and zinc) with lower concentrations in spent medium than in the tissue water volume (fresh-dry mass expressed as mL HO). Two patterns of nutrient use were visualized by correlative analysis of nutrient uptake. Greatest growth lowered plant nutrient concentrations of potassium, sodium, phosphorus, iron, and copper in all genotypes, and luxuriant uptake was indicated with least growth. Potassium, sodium, iron, and copper concentrations in plant dry matter were equal to or exceeded what is observed in vigorously growing nursery plants. However, phosphorus concentration in plant dry matter was low enough to be considered deficient when compared to Hemerocallis plants in nursery production. With a second group of nutrients (calcium, magnesium, manganese, and boron), the genotype, "Barbara Mitchell" lacked active uptake and was deficient. Calcium concentration was low in all plants compared to Hemerocallis grown under nursery conditions (" Barbara Mitchell" was the lowest concentration) despite active uptake by the other three genotypes" Brocaded Gown," "Mary's Gold," and "Heart of a Missionary." Magnesium concentration in these three genotypes was low enough in vessels with greatest growth to question its adequacy at high densities. Increased sucrose in medium reduced the dry matter concentrations of all tested nutrients. Plant growth regulators had less impact on nutrient use than genotype and plant density. Nutrient uptake may be an important physiological component of genotypic variation.
4293317|The semi-arid tropics are characterized by unpredictable weather, limited and erratic rainfall and nutrient-poor soils and suffer from a host of agricultural constraints. Several diseases, insect pests and drought affect crop productivity. Developing stress-resistant crops has been a worthwhile activity of the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT). Mandated crops of ICRISAT, including groundnut, pigeonpea, chickpea, sorghum and pearl millet, are the main staple foods for nearly one billion people in the semi-arid tropics. Genetic transformation provides a complementary means for the genetic betterment of the genome of these crops. Judicious application of biotechnological tools holds great potential for alleviating some of the major constraints to productivity of these crops in the agricultural systems of the semi-arid tropics. This article reviews plant genetic engineering in relation to its applications in genetic enhancement and the improvement of important crops of the semi-arid tropics. For the benefit of nonbiotechnologists, a brief review of technical aspects of plant genetic engineering is also included.
20064905|Currently, Cereus peruvianus plants can be rapidly cloned in vitro via adventitious organogenesis using callus cultures; however, somaclonal variation is a problem. A method is described herein using lateral bud explants to produce multiple shoots for clonal propagation. Apical and lateral explants were cultured on MS (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) media with factorial combinations of the auxins indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), and cytokinins 6-benzyladenine (BA) and N-(2-furanyl-methyl)-1-purine-6 amine (kinetin) at the concentrations 0.0, 0.01, 0.1,
42568817|Fusarium wilt, caused by Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cubense (Foc), is a destructive fungal disease of banana. Transferring antifungal genes into banana provides a feasible way to control fungal disease, but transformation frequencies for banana are often cultivar and cell line dependent. We investigated an efficient liquid medium selection protocol for an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation system for Furenzhi (Musa spp. AA group). Embryogenic cell suspensions (ECS) of Furenzhi were co-cultivated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105 harboring a plasmid containing the endochitinase gene chit42 from Trichoderma harzianum. After co-cultivation, GUS-positive ECS were selected in liquid medium with antibiotics, and compared to semi-solid medium selection. In total, 186 transgenic plantlets were obtained using M2S liquid medium (based on Murashige and Skoog salts) with hygromycin, whereas no transgenic lines were obtained in parallel experiments with semi-solid selection medium. Integration of the transgene was confirmed by PCR, and Southern blots which showed a single copy of the transgene had integrated into the banana genome in three plant lines. Expression of the transgene in regenerated plants was confirmed by -glucuronidase histochemical assays and real-time PCR. Both in vitro and ex vivo disease assays showed that the majority of transgenic lines (three of seven) expressing chit42 showed a higher level of resistance to Fusarium wilt (Foe race 4), whereas non-transgenic control plants were susceptible. These results imply a relationship between Foc4 disease resistance and the transcription levels of the transgene in the transgenic clones. This study may offer a promising approach to breed bananas resistant to the fungal disease Fusarium wilt.
42568799|Saussurea involucrata Kar. et Kir. is one of the most well-known Chinese medicinal plants, and it is utilized for a variety of medical conditions. Due to the overexploitation of this endangered species, it is crucial to develop methods for both conservation and propagation. To address this issue, we have developed and optimized a simple and effective vitrification process for the cryopreservation of S. involucrata callus tissue. The optimized method consisted of a 3-d incubation period on medium containing 0.3 M sucrose, transfer to a plant vitrification solution (PVS2) containing 30% (v/v) glycerol, 15% (v/v) ethylene glycol, 15% (v/v) dimethylsulfoxide, and 0.4 M sucrose first at 60% PVS2 for 40 min, then at 100% PVS2 for 60 min, followed by immediate immersion and storage in liquid nitrogen. To thaw the tissue, tissues were rewarmed at 40C for 2 min. This method resulted in a survival rate of approximately 56% and a regrowth rate of approximately 40%. Survival and regrowth were significantly improved by the addition of a low-temperature preincubation step. Incubating the calli at 4C for 12 d prior to initiating the optimized cryopreservation protocol increased the survival rate of the tissue to 75%, increased the regrowth rate to 60%, and more than doubled the number of regenerated shoots per explant. Following cryopreservation, greater than 90% of the regenerated shoots formed complete plantlets, and 81% of the regenerated plantlets survived and grew vigorously under greenhouse conditions.
20461726|The growth of black walnut shoot cultures was compared on media differing in nutrient formulation (MS, DKW, WPM, and 1/2X DKW), cytokinin type (ZEA, BA, and TDZ), and cytokinin concentration. On WPM and 1/2X DKW media, hyperhydricity was observed at frequencies of 60-100% compared with frequencies of 10-40% on the high-salt media (DKW and MS). All three cytokinins facilitated shoot regeneration from nodal cuttings, but recurrent elongation was only observed for BA (5-12.5 M) and ZEA (5-25 M) with mean shoot heights of 70-80 mm being possible after two culture periods (6-8 wk) for the fastest elongating lines. ZEA was effective across all six shoot lines with mean shoot heights of at least 35 mm over two culture periods, but two of the shoot lines were 'nonresponsive' to BA with mean shoot heights of&lt;15 mm. In contrast, when shoot tip explants were used for culture multiplication, ZEA was the least effective cytokinin with proliferation frequencies of only 30-40%. The proliferation frequencies were twice as great (75-87%) for TDZ (0.05-0.1 M), but most of the shoots regenerated were swollen or fasciated in morphology. High rates of proliferation (61-88%) were also possible using BA (12.5-25 M), but axillary shoots did not elongate well, growing to heights of only 5-10 mm, on average, after 4-5 wk. Since the cytokinin types and concentrations required for high-frequency (&gt;50%) axillary proliferation had adverse effects on the morphology and growth potential of the shoots, multiplication strategies based on the use of nodal cuttings are recommended.
4293259|Embryo sacs of maize isolated with a few layers of surrounding nucellus or completely isolated with digestive enzymes have resulted in either poorly visible or structurally damaged embryo sacs. We therefore developed a new, more successful method involving mechanical sectioning of maize ovaries using the Vibratome. Sections containing intact embryo sacs are viable and development is normal when sacs are cultured in vitro on semisolid Murashige and Skoog (MS) media. Embryo sacs produce endosperm (90%) and embryos (75%), and mature plants are obtained directly without callus formation or somatic embryogenesis. Immediate applications of this technique may include experimental fertilization and embryogenesis as well as genetic manipulation. Targeting of individual cells was demonstrated with microinjection and confocal microscopy. The methods developed in this study provide a way of studying maize embryo sac development and transformation.
4293667|In a micropropagation program, where it is of paramount importance to produce true-to-type planting material, somaclonal variation of any kind is undesirable. Variation among plants regenerated from tissue culture is termed 'somaclonal variation'. In banana, somaclonal variants of different types have been reported with regard to plant morphology. This article discusses various factors due to which somaclonal variations may arise. Somaclonal variation may be detected by visual screening or by using molecular markers such as randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD), amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP), and by cytological studies. Although somaclonal variation is undesirable in the context of micropropagation, it can be used to advantage for genetic improvement of banana, as has been described.
20064857|Plasmid rescue can provide an efficient way of cloning T-DNA-tagged genomic DNA of plants. However, rescue has often been hampered by extensive rearrangements in the cloned DNA. We have demonstrated using a transgenic line of Arabidopsis thaliana that the plant DNA flanking the T-DNA tag was heavily cytosine methylated. This methylation could be completely inhibited by growing the plants in the presence of azacytidine. Rescue of the T-DNA tag together with the flanking plant genomic DNA sequences from nontreated control plants into an modified cytosine restriction (mcr) proficient strain of Escherichia coli resulted in rearrangements of the majority of the rescued plasmids. These rearrangements could be avoided if the methylation was inhibited in the transgenic plants by azacytidine treatment or by cloning into an mcr-deficient strain of E. coli. The results indicate that cytosine methylation of the DNA in the transgenic plants is the main cause of the DNA rearrangements observed during plasmid rescue and suggest efficient strategies to eliminate such artifacts.
4293874|The MuDR/Mu transposons of maize are the most aggressive DNA transposons known in terms of their ability to increase the forward mutation frequency by ~ 100-fold. Their activities are held in check by multiple host mechanisms that restrict movement to late in development and that minimize the impact on the maize genome. Aspects of MuDR gene expression that are modulated include transcriptional start site choice, alternative intron splicing, and translational activity. Although not all features of MuDR transposase biology are understood, this element has been used to mobilize endogenous Mu elements and genetically engineered Mu transposons to conduct efficient transposon mutagenesis throughout the maize genome. RescueMu, which contains a copy of the pBluescript bacterial plasmid, has been used to sequence maize genes and to generate a large population of tagged alleles for subsequent genetic analysis. Derivatives of this element are in the testing phase for enhancer trap and activation gene tagging in maize.
4293106|Shoot multiplication was induced in cowpea, cv. Georgia-21, from shoot tip explants. Shoot tips, 5 mm long, were isolated from in vitro-grown seedlings and cultured on MS medium containing
29736155|Proteinase inhibitor II (PIN2) proteins from the Solanaceae family have been previously used in plant transformation to acquire protection against caterpillars. Some of these PIN2 proteins have been shown to exhibit exogenous activities against trypsin and/or chymotrypsin in vitro. Despite their application in conferring insect resistance in transgenic plants, the endogenous roles of this family of proteins in various plant species have not been well defined. To investigate the exogenous and endogenous functions of PIN2 proteins, cDNAs encoding PIN2 proteins from the weed Solanum americanum (American black nightshade), designated SaPIN2a and SaPIN2b, were cloned and characterized. The localization of S. americanum SaPIN2a and SaPIN2b mRNAs and proteins in the reproductive tissues destined to undergo developmental programmed cell death subsequently led to investigations into their function during seed development. Using plant transformation of lettuce and S. americanum, it was evident that: (1) the expression of SaPIN2a in transgenic lettuce conferred resistance to cabbage looper (Trichoplusia ni) caterpillars; and (2) the expression of siRNAs from a PIN2-RNAi construct resulted in transgenic S. americanum that were impaired in seed development. These results suggest that S. americanum PIN2 proteins not only enhance resistance to caterpillars (when expressed exogenously) but they function in inhibiting endogenous proteases that are expressed during seed development. Specifically, the aborted seeds of PIN2-RNAi lines showed abnormal endothelium that subsequently affected endosperm and embryo development.
4293636| Chlorophytum borivilianum Sant. et Fernand. ('Safed Musli'), an endangered Indian medicinal herb, is valued for its tuberous roots reputed to have aphrodisiac properties. Farmers in India cultivate this medicinal herb on a commercial scale because of its high economic value. To cater to the growing demand for planting material, a highly reproducible field-tested and cost-effective micropropagation scheme has been developed. Best shoot multiplication was achieved on agar-gelled Murashige and Skoog medium containing 22.2 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 3% sucrose. Phytagel at 0.2% showed slightly better response than BDH agar in terms of shoot multiplication, but the use of BDH agar was preferred due to its low cost. With the optimized conditions, more than 15000 plantlets could be produced in 20 wk. Plantlets subjected to hardening under agro-shadenet conditions during the monsoon months of high humidity showed better survival rate and growth compared to plantlets hardened in vitro and subsequently transferred to the greenhouse for acclimatization. Rate of plantlet survival was 87 and 90% under open field and agro-shadenet conditions, respectively. Plantlets grown ex vitro under agro-shadenet and field conditions produced tuberous roots which could be grown in the next season as a secondary propagule. We concluded that in vitro production of 'Safed Musli' was cost-effective compared to conventional propagation and holds great potential for commercial production. 
20064884|Stable genetic transformation of Picea mariana (black spruce) was obtained via particle bombardment into two target tissues, mature cotyledonary somatic embryos and suspensions from embryonal masses, with the Biolistic PDS-1000/He device. Seven transgenic embryogenic cell lines were obtained from the mature cotyledonary somatic embryos after secondary somatic embryogenesis from two different cell lines (R4F14 and 119794-014). The suspension cultures from embryonal masses produced five transgenic cell lines from one cell line (R4F14). Expression of the introduced -glucuronidase (GUS) and neomycin phosphotransferase II (NPT II) genes was detected by histochemistry and fluorometry, and by ELISA in 10 of the lines. Two lines showed only NPT II gene expression. Four of the five lines obtained after bombardment of suspensions of embryonal masses showed lower levels of expression of GUS and NPT II. The integration of the foreign genes was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction analyses and Southern hybridization for GUS and NPT II, and complex hybridization patterns were observed. The 12 transgenic lines obtained had a typical embryogenic morphology and were capable of maturation and germination. Over 40 transgenic trees were regenerated from one of the transgenic lines, and they have a normal phenotype.
20461696|An efficient and reproducible method for the regeneration of multiple shoots of brown oak (Quercus semecarpifolia Sm.) has been developed in which a part of the petiolar tube containing a primary shoot is used as the explant. Explants derived from in vitro grown seedlings were cultured either on Murashige and Skoog or Woody Plant medium (WPM) containing different concentrations of benzyladenine (BAP) throughout the range of 1-20 M. WPM supplemented with 20 M BAP was found to be best for adventitious shoot induction and for the multiplication of individual shoots. In-vitro-produced shoots were rooted using a two-step method. Firstly, shoots were cultured on WPM containing indolebutyric acid (IBM) at either 50 or 100 M for 24 or 48 h. Secondly, the shoots were transferred to plant-growth-regulator-free half-strength WPM. The second step not only considerably improved the rooting percentage but also minimized the formation of basal callus. The most effective first-step treatment was found to be 100 M IBA for 24 h, which initiated rooting at a frequency of 100%. Well-rooted plants were transferred to plastic cups containing nonsterile, sieved soil and farmyard manure, hardened under greenhouse conditions, and then successfully established in pots. This procedure is suitable for use in large-scale production of plants and may have potential application in additional oak species.
41432841|In vitro regenerated plants of rye, Secale cereale L., Ails and Merced cultivars, were studied to verify if genetic and/or epigenetic changes were promoted by in vitro conditions. Inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) fingerprints on HpaII/ MspI-digested and uncut DNA were generated. DNA digested with methylation-sensitive isoschizomers revealed epigenetic modifications, while modification of ISSR patterns obtained with undigested DNA indicated genetic changes. With this technique, it was possible to study both genetic and/or epigenetic changes within the same DNA sequences. The frequency of plants with at least one variation was high: 73% and 30% of rye plants showed at least one genetic change, and 50% and 73% carried at least one methylation change, in the Ails and Merced cultivars, respectively. Further analyses revealed that a considerable number of variable markers showed both types of modifications, indicative of both genetic and epigenetic changes. Moreover, genetic variation was related to the presence of the CCGG target in the analyzed bands. These results indicate the possible existence of a common mechanism connecting both types of variation.
41496437|The transcription factor encoded by the gene Knotted1 is a nuclear homeodomain protein, regulating meristematic cells at the shoot apical meristem. It has been demonstrated that Knotted1 (KN1) expression specifies stem cell fate in adventitious shoot induction in herbaceous plants. This gene may thus potentially identify the initiation of meristem development in adventitious shoot induction in difficult-to-regenerate plants such as Prunoideae. We isolated an almond (Prunus dulcis Mill.) KN1-type gene using degenerate primers targeting the most conserved regions of Knotted1 gene. The 5' and 3' ends of the isolated sequence were obtained by rapid amplification of cDNA endspolymerase chain reaction (RACE-PCR), and the gene was named P. dulcis Knotted1-like (PdKn1). PdKn1 transcripts were detected by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR mainly in shoot apical and axillary meristems. The RT-PCR and RTquantitative PCR PdKn1 expression in almond leaf expiants was found to anticipate the organization of adventitious shoot meristems. Apricot RNA isolated from induced leaf explants cross-hybridized with the almond probe PdKn1 in Northern blotting. We suggest that almond PdKn1 may be a useful marker to study the adventitious regeneration system by revealing the potential organogenic conditions, not only in almond but also in other Prunoideae.
4293554| Biotechnology has offered a nonconventional method of plant propagation and has been intensively applied as a conservation strategy for sustaining biodiversity for rare plants. In vitro conservation through micropropagation of Ochreinauclea missionis, a rare, endemic and medicinal tree species of Western Ghats in Karnataka region of India is reported. Multiple shoots were initiated from nodal explants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 8.8 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 0.3% (w/v) activated charcoal. Shoots were elongated in MS medium with a combination of 2.2 M BA and 5.3 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) or growth regulator-free medium. Individual shoots with a minimum of one node were excised and rooted in vitro on MS medium with 0.3% activated charcoal or ex vitro rooted by treatment with 49 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) for 30 min. Regenerants acclimated in Soil-rite exhibited 65% survival in the greenhouse. 
4293762| Studies were carried out to evaluate sugarcane bagasse as an alternative to agar for micropropagation of apple clones to reduce the cost of micropropagation and improve the quality of the propagules. Significant improvement in the in vitro rooting process, coupled with cost reduction, were obtained by the use of sugarcane bagasse as a substitute for the traditionally used agar-gelled medium. The tests were undertaken with micro-cuttings of the apple rootstock Marubakaido (Malus prunifolia Borkh.) using a rooting medium composed of half-strength Murashige and Skoog salts and vitamins, 3% (w/v) sucrose, and 0.49 M indole-3-butyric acid. The plants grown on sugarcane bagasse yielded a 22% increase in root length, 20% increase in plant length, and 63% increase in the number of roots, compared with agar-grown micro-cuttings. Particle size of the sugarcane bagasse had a significant impact on all those parameters, and the best results were obtained with bagasse comprising particles smaller than 0.18 mm. The results demonstrated that the sugarcane bagasse could be used effectively as a substitute for agar during rooting of apple shoots. 
23326873|Vitamin C (ascorbic acid, AsA) is an essential component for collagen biosynthesis and also for correct functioning of the cardiovascular system in humans. Plants and several animals can synthesize ascorbic acid, whereas humans lack the gene essential for ascorbic acid biosynthesis and must acquire the vitamin from their diet. In the present study, we developed a transgenic tomato plant (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) over-expressing the rat L-gulono--lactone oxidase (GLOase) gene driven by CaMV35S constitutive promoter. The over-expression of GLOase resulted in a 1.5-fold increase in AsA levels in transgenic tomato fruits, which was positively correlated with increased GLOase activity. The Southern and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction results revealed the stable integration of the transgene in the progeny of the engineered plants. The transgenic plants with increased vitamin C content in the fruit showed enhanced tolerance to abiotic stresses induced by methyl viologen, NaCl, and mannitol as compared with wild-type plants. The leaf disc senescence assay showed better tolerance in transgenic plants by retaining higher chlorophyll content compared with wild-type plants. The T1 plants survived under salt stress (200 mM NaCl) whereas wild-type plants were unable to survive such high salt concentrations. This study suggests that the increased accumulation of AsA could upregulate the antioxidant system which imparts improved tolerance against various abiotic stresses in transgenic tomato plants as compared with wild-type plants.
20064921|Hackelia venusta (Boraginaceae) is an endangered perennial herb endemic to the interior northwestern United States. Because of seed scarcity, micropropagation (an ex situ conservation strategy) could produce true-to-type plantlets suitable for reintroduction. We hypothesized that clones of predetermined size could be rapidly produced by supplementing multiplication and rooting media with minimal levels of cytokinin and auxin. Microshoots derived from shoot explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (1962) media supplemented with 1% (wt/vol) agar and 0.0001 to 10 M benzyladenine. Inverse regression estimates on 3 genotypes predicted that a target of 2.5 axillary microshoots per explant would require a minimal level of 0.04  0.02 M benzyladenine. Culture of 25 genotypes with 0.04 M benzyladenine resulted in an average of 2.3  0.1 axillary microshoots per explant. Elongated microshoots were transferred to media supplemented with 0.1 to 25 M indoleacetic acid. Clones rooted from 36% to 100% success after 4 wk in 2.0 M indoleacetic acid. Plantlets transplanted ex vitro with three or more roots survived at 84% versus 46% of plantlets with fewer roots. Up to 84% of the plantlets survived in a planting trial. The data suggest that shoot culture of Hackelia venusta, with minimal growth regulators, can produce axillary microshoots for reintroduction.
42568790|Selectable markers used in plant transformation, such as the bar gene, have been chosen for selection efficacy and for the absence of pleiotropic effects. Recent research has suggested that expression of bar in Arabidopsis affects the transcriptome, and in at least one barley cultivar, high bar expression has been associated with severe fitness reductions. However, the observed sensitivity in barley was thought to be an isolated case associated with a specific genetic stock. In this study, fitness reductions were observed in some nearisogenic lines in the background of the cultivar Garnet when the bar locus was homozygous. The fitness of the near-isogenic lines was correlated with the levels of bar mRNA in the donor parents. Previous studies had shown heritability of bar expression in F barley hybrids, so these results suggested that Garnet barley is intolerant of high phosphinothricin acetyltransferase activity. Phosphinothricin acetyltransferase activities were determined for eight nearisogenic lines that showed a range of phenotypes (apparently normal to abnormal and nonviable) when homozygous for bar. Fitness was clearly and negatively correlated with phosphinothricin acetyltransferase activity. These results suggest genetic variability for sensitivity to bar expression in barley, and the possibility of negative but nonobvious effects in apparently tolerant cultivars cannot be ruled out. Similar problems may be associated, but not yet detected, with other selectable markers. The potential for pleiotropic effects of selectable markers can be avoided by transformation strategies that enable the elimination of selectable markers.
20064865|Somatic embryos which originated from mature embryo axes of the chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) showed varied morphologies. Embryos were classified based on shape of the embryo and number of cotyledons. "Normal" (zygotic-like) embryos were bipolar structures with two cotyledons and a well-developed shoot and root apical meristem, whereas "aberrant" embryos were horn-shaped, had single and multiple cotyledons, and were fasciated. Histological examination revealed the absence of a shoot apical meristem in horn-shaped embryos. Fasciated embryos showed diaxial fusion of two embryos. Secondary embryogenesis was also observed, in which the embryos emerged from the hypocotyl and cotyledonary region of the primary somatic embryo. This report documents the absence of an apical meristem as a vital factor in the lack of conversion of aberrant somatic embryos.
20064942|Artemisinin (AN), a potent antimalarial drug that has been used for centuries as a folk remedy in China, is an effective treatment against quinine-resistant strains of Plasmodium. It can be produced through the in vitro culture of genetically transformed (hairy) roots. The effect of gibberellic acid (GA) on the growth and secondary metabolite production of hairy roots of Artemisia annua was investigated. Six different concentrations of GA were tested in shaker flasks to determine the optimum concentration. GA levels of 0.01-0.001 mg/l (28.9-2.89 M) provided the most significant increase in biomass, and 0.01 mg/l (28.9 M) produced the highest amount of AN. Investigation of growth kinetics showed that the use of GA at 0.01 mg/l (28.9 M) increased the growth rate of hairy roots of A. annua by 24.9%. Thus, the cultures treated with GA reached stationary phase faster than control cultures.
4293430|We have developed a new transformation method called MATVS (Multi-Auto-Transformation Vector System). The oncogenes (ipt or rol genes) of Agrobacterium are used as selectable markers to regenerate transgenic cells and to select marker-free transgenic plants in the MATVS. The chimeric ipt gene or the rol genes are combined with the site-specific recombination R/RS system to remove the oncogenes from the transgenic cells after transformation. We report here the application of MATVS to transformation of tobacco, aspen, rice and snapdragon. (1) The GST-MAT vector pMAT8 has the native ipt gene and the R gene with a chemical inducible promoter (GST-II-27). Use of the GST-MAT vector generated marker-free transgenic tobacco plants containing a single copy transgene at high frequency. (2) Use of the GST-MAT vector pRBI11 containing the rbcS 3B-ipt gene produced transgenic marker-free hybrid aspen plants without crossing. (3) Use of the ipt-type MAT vector, pNPI30GFP, containing the 35S-ipt and 35S-R genes, resulted in the regeneration of marker-free transgenic rice plants directly from infected scutellum tissues at high frequency within 1 mo. (4) Use of the rol-type MAT vector pNPI702, containing the rol genes and the 35S-R gene, produced transgenic marker-free plants of tobacco and snapdragon at high frequency without crossing. Our results show that the promoter of the ipt gene, the preculture periods of plant tissues and the culture medium are important factors to improve the generation efficiency of marker-free transgenic plants. We can rapidly produce marker-free transgenic plants without the production of ipt-shooty intermediates. Therefore, it is a most promising method to save time and work for the generation of marker-free transgenic plants in crops.
42568432|In plant tissue culture research, there is a constant need to search for novel substances that could result in better or more efficient growth in vitro. A relatively unknown compound, phloroglucinol (1,3,5-trihydroxybenzene), which is a degradation product of phloridzin, has growth-promoting properties. Phloroglucinol increases shoot formation and somatic embryogenesis in several horticultural and grain crops. When added to rooting media together with auxin, phloroglucinol further stimulates rooting, most likely because phloroglucinol and its homologues act as auxin synergists or auxin protectors. Of particular interest is the ability of phloroglucinola precursor in the lignin biosynthesis pathwayto effectively control hyperhydricity through the process of lignification, thus maximizing the multiplication rate of woody species and other species that are difficult to propagate. Phloroglucinol has also been used to improve the recovery of cryopreserved Dendrobium protocorms, increasing the potential of cryopreservation for application in ornamental biotechnology. Phloroglucinol demonstrates both cytokinin-like and auxin-like activity, much like thidiazuron, and thus has considerable potential for application in a wide range of plant tissue culture studies.
4293933| Protocols for both axillary bud proliferation and shoot organogenesis of Euphorbia pulchurrima Winter Rose were developed using terminal buds and leaf tissues. Greenhouse-grown terminal buds were placed on Murashige-Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with various concentrations of either benzlyaminopurine (BA) or thidiazuron (TDZ). Explants produced the greatest number of axillary buds on media containing between 2.2 and 8.8 M BA. The number of explants that produced axillary buds increased with increasing BA concentration. TDZ at concentrations between 2.3 and 23.0 M caused hyperhydricity of shoots and were not effective in promoting shoot proliferation. The most calluses and shoots were produced from leaf midvein sections from in vitro grown plants placed on the medium containing 8.8-13.3 M BA and 17.1 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) for 1 mo. before transferring to the medium containing only BA. Adventitious buds were produced only from red-pigmented callus, and explants that produced callus continued to produce adventitious shoots in the presence of IAA. Five-mo.-old shoots derived from shoot culture or organogenesis rooted readily in artificial soil with or without treatment with indolebutyric acid, and were acclimatized in the greenhouse. 
41432442|Different concentrations of methy1 jasmonate, spermine, casein hydrolysate, or progesterone combined with 16 mg/1 2 iP+ 4 mg/1 naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) were investigated in order to obtain higher multiplication rate and growth of Hippeastrum vittatum bulbs in vitro on MS basal medium. The highest multiplication rate (8.2 bulbs/explant) was attained with 80 mg/1 spermine, while the highest bulb fresh weight (1.23 g/bulblet) was obtained with 4 mg/1 methy1 jasmonate. Progesterone at 20 mg/1 or casein hydrolysate at 2.0 g/1 gave the highest leaf length (14.1 and 13.2 cm, respectively). So, it can be advised to use 80 mg/1 spermine combined with 16 mg/1 2 iP+ 4 mg/1 NAA to obtain the highest number of bulbs per expiant with moderate leaf length and bulb fresh weight. Chemical analysis showed alternations in the alkaloid type ratio and number of compounds in the bulbs treated with methy1 jasmonate (4 mg/1).
20461690|Gentiana kurroo (Royle), Gentiana cruciata (L.), Gentiana tibetica (King. ex Hook. f.), Gentiana lutea (L.), and Gentiana pannonica (Scop.) leaves derived from axenic shoot culture were used as explants. For culture initiation, leaves from the first and second whorls from the apical dome were dissected and cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with three different auxins: 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), or 3,6-dichloro-o-anisic acid (dicamba) in concentrations of 0.5, 1.0, or 2.0 mg/l; and five different cytokinins: zeatin, 6-furfurylamonopurine (kinetin), N-phenyl-N-1,2,3-thiadiazol-5-ylurea (TDZ), N-(2-chloro-4-pyridyl)N-phenylurea, or 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP). The cytokinin concentrations used were dependent on the type of cytokinin and varied between 0.25 and 3.0 mg/l. After 2 mo. of culture, the morphogenic response of explants was assessed. Frequency of embryogenesis was the highest for G. kurroo (54.7%) and dependent on plant growth hormones (PGRs). This gentian was the only species showing morphogenic capabilities on media supplemented with all applied combinations of PGRs, while none of the 189 induction media permutations stimulated somatic embryogenesis from G. lutea explants. G. tibetica and G. cruciata both produced an average of 6.6 somatic embryos per explant, while G. pannonica and G. kurroo regenerated at 15.7 and 14.2 somatic embryos per explant, respectively. Optimum regeneration was achieved in the presence of NAA combined with BAP or TDZ. This auxin also stimulated abundant rhizogenesis. Somatic embryos were also regenerated from adventitious roots of G. kurroo, G. cruciata, and G. pannonica. Somatic embryos converted into plantlets on half strength MS medium.
20461556|The regeneration of lily protoplasts isolated from suspension cells of Lilium japonicum was achieved by using the nurse culture method. The protoplasts divided only under the nurse culture application. The divided protoplasts grew into colonies and developed into visible calluses on a medium containing picloram. After the calluses were transferred to a hormone-free medium, plantlets formed from them. The highest frequency of plant regeneration was obtained on a medium containing 1 M gibberellin 4 (GA). The cleaved amplified polymorphic sequences (CAPS) method was used to confirm that the regenerants were not plants that had escaped from nurse cells. We were able to transplant the plantlets to soil in pots without acclimatization, and they showed normal growth.
4293538|Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated transformation has been used to obtain transgenic plants in 89 different taxa, representing 79 species from 55 genera and 27 families. A diverse range of dicotyledonous plant families is represented, including one Gymnosperm family. In addition to the Ri plasmid, over half these plants have been transformed with foreign genes, including agronomically useful traits. Plants regenerated from hairy roots often show altered plant morphology such as dwarfing, increased rooting, altered flowering, wrinkled leaves and/or increased branching due to rol gene expression. These altered phenotypic features can have potential applications for plant improvement especially in the horticultural industry where such morphological alterations may be desirable. Use of A. rhizogenes and rol gene transformation has tremendous potential for genetic manipulation of plants and has been of particular benefit for improvement of ornamental and woody plants.
20541048|An efficient transformation protocol was developed for Eucalyptus tereticornis Sm. using cotyledon and hypocotyl explants. Precultured cotyledon and hypocotyl explants were cocultured with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA 4404 harboring the binary vector pBI121 containing the uidA and neomycin phosphotransferase II genes for 2 d and transferred to selective regeneration medium containing 0.5 mg/l 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP), 0.1 mg/l naphthalene acetic acid, 40 mg/l kanamycin, and 300 mg/l cefotaxime. After two passages in the selective regeneration medium, the putatively transformed regenerants were transferred to Murashige and Skoog (MS) liquid medium containing 0.5 mg/l BAP and 40 mg/l kanamycin on paper bridges for further development and elongation. The elongated kanamycin-resistant shoots were subsequently rooted on the MS medium supplemented with 1.0 mg/l indole-3-butyric acid and 40 mg/l kanamycin. A strong -glucuronidase activity was detected in the transformed plants by histochemical assay. Integration of T-DNA into the nuclear genome of transgenic plants was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction and southern hybridization. This protocol allows effective transformation and direct regeneration of E. tereticornis Sm.
20461692|Ramie [Boehmeria nivea (L.) Gaud] is one of the most important perennial fiber crops in China. In vitro tissue culture of ramie could serve as an important means for its improvement through genetic transformation. To improve the regeneration capacity of ramie, the effects on plant regeneration of donor plant age, basal medium, plant growth regulators, and culture conditions were evaluated using explants derived from the cotyledon, hypocotyl, leaf, petiole, and stem of ramie seedlings. Cotyledons and hypocotyls excised from 4-d-old seedlings and leaves and petioles and stems from 15-d-old seedlings were optimal explants. The highest regeneration efficiency was obtained on Murashige and Skoog salts with Gamborg's B vitamins basal medium containing 2.27 M thidiazuron (TDZ) and 0.054 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) for the five explant types tested. A photoperiod of 16:8 h (light/dark) was found to be superior than continuous darkness for regeneration of ramie using TDZ. The regenerated shoots were transferred to hormone-free medium for shoot elongation and successfully rooted on half-strength Murashige and Skoog supplemented with 0.134 M NAA. The rooted plantlets with four to five leaves were transplanted to greenhouse for further growth.
40663766|The regeneration of plants via somatic embryogenesis liquid shake culture of embryognie calluses was achieved in Vigna mungo (L.) Hepper (blackgram). The production of embryognie callus was induced by seeding primary leaf expiants of V mungo onto Murashige and Skoog (MS) (Physiol Plant 15: 473-497, 1962) medium supplemented (optimally) with 1.5 mg/1 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. The embryognie callus was then transferred to liquid MS medium supplemented (optimally) with 0.25 mg/1 2,4-dichloro-phenoxyacetic acid. Globular, heart-shaped, and torpedo-shaped embryos developed in liquid culture. The optimal carbohydrate source for production of somatic embryos was 3% sucrose (compared to glucose, fructose, and maltose). L-Glutamine (20 mg/1) stimulated the production of all somatic embryo stages significantly. Torpedo-shaped embryos were transferred to MS (Physiol Plant 15: 473-97, 1962) liquid medium containing 0.5 mg/1 abscisic acid to induce the maturation of cotyledonary-stage embryos. Cotyledonary-stage embryos were transferred to 1/2-MS semi-solid basal medium for embryo conversion. Approximately 1-1.5% of the embryos developed into plants.
20461658|Studies on rooting of microshoots of smokebush (Cotinus coggygria Mill, var. Royal Purple), a woody ornamental, were carried out in vitro. Microshoots were rooted in a mixed-auxin regime (indole 3-acetic acid, indole butyric acid [IBA], and naphthalene acetic acid) or singly in the above auxins and the 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) over a wide concentration range. Indole butyric acid at 10 M proved to be the most suitable treatment, producing less basal callus, 100% rooting, and earlier root emergence than the other treatments. No roots were formed with 2,4-D. A 6-day root induction period was obtained with 10 M of IBA. Histological studies revealed increased mitotic activity after 3 d in culture in the medullary ray cells, which led to root primordium formation, several of which were formed simultaneously around the base of the explant. The vascular tissues of these primordia connected to those of the explant, and roots began to emerge from the base by day 10. Thus, direct rhizogenesis occurred with the IBA treatment, as opposed to the roots that were formed in the basal callus under the mixed-auxin regime.
23016613|Plant ovules provide zygotes with a physicochemical environment that supports embryo differentiation, growth, and maturation. The exact nature of this embryogenesis-enabling environment is not well characterized, as evidenced by failed attempts to induce normal embryony from zygotes or proembryos (precotyledonary) on defined media. To identify factors required for cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) zygotic embryony in vitro, we previously performed chemical and dissolved oxygen tension analyses of cotton ovule fluids and tissues at multiple stages of embryony in situ. Based on these analyses, we report herein the development of procedures that normalize embryo differentiation, growth, maturation, and germination in vitro, starting with proembryos. Our medium differed from Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium as follows (percentage of MS): N (30%, mostly from ten amino acids), P (815%), K (237%), Mg (85%), Ca (267%), S (506%), Fe (88%), and myoinositol (883%). Levels of other MS nutrients and vitamins, except sucrose, were kept at MS levels. Additionally, we included 100 mg L 1 casein hydrolysate plus the following (mmol L 1 ): D-glucose (1.8), fructose (4.7), sucrose (62.0), arabinose (7.1), melibiose (3.5), malic acid (11.6), and citric acid (3.8). Mannitol was added to achieve a medium osmotic potential of 1.10 MPa, and an atmospheric O 2 tension of 3.3 mol m 3 at the surface of embryos was maintained during culture. When cultured on medium containing 8.0 mol L 1 indole-3-acetic acid, 8090% of proembryos (as small as 100 cells) of cultivars HS-26 and B-27 increased four- to eightfold in surface area during the first 18 d in culture and germinated thereafter to produce viable plants. Increases in surface area of proembryos cultured on a modified MS medium previously used for somatic embryogenesis were from 0.2- to 0.6-fold. The described embryo culture medium should be useful for studying nutritional and molecular aspects of early embryony and possibly for plant zygote transformation protocols.
4293000|An in vitro shoot multiplication system was established from juvenile Fagus sylvatica L. tissues, and plantlets were regenerated. Embryonic axes were excised from beech seeds and germinated in vitro on media supplemented with 6-benzyladenine (BA) to obtain plantlets with axillary shoots. Shoot multiplication was maintained by sequential subculture of axillary shoot tips and basal segments on Woody Plant Medium supplemented with 0.5 mg/liter BA + 2 mg/liter zeatin + 0.2 mg/liter naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The efficiency of shoot multiplication clearly depended on the kind of explant used. Transfer to fresh medium every 2 wk during the 6-wk multiplication cycle improved multiplication rates. In the rooting stage, an initial 7-day dark period significantly improved rooting capacity and accelerated the emergence of roots on auxin-treated shoots. Adventitious buds were induced on the intact hypocotyls of the whole plantlets derived from the initial embryonic axis explants, especially on those cultured on medium with 1 mg/liter BA. Cotyledon and hypocotyl segments isolated from seedlings grown in vitro from embryos also exhibited capacity for adventitious bud formation, especially when cultured on media supplemented with 0.5 mg/liter BA + 0.1 mg/liter NAA.
20461656|This is the first report on somatic embryogenesis in common ash (Fraxinus excelsior L.). Experiments on somatic embryogenesis induction were carried out on zygotic embryos at different phases of development and maturation. The embryo axes were isolated and cultured on media containing different plant growth regulators (PGRs). Embryogenic tissues were obtained from embryos collected at an incomplete maturation phase and cultured on a modified Murashige and Skoog medium containing 8.8 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 4.4 M benzyl-adenine (BA). Embryos isolated from seeds at an advanced stage of maturation showed only organogenetic phenomena. Embryogenic tissues were successfully subcultured and multiplied on medium containing a reduced concentration of PGRs. After their isolation, somatic embryos were induced to develop and mature by transfer to PGR-free medium and subsequent culture on medium containing 0.1 M BA. Somatic embryos developed completely and also germinated spontaneously. Embryo germination and conversion were significantly improved when subjected to a period of storage at 4C and transplant onto woody plant medium. Plantlets were successfully transferred to soil and acclimatized in a "misted" greenhouse.
20064924|Seven suspension-cultured lines of five different species (Amaranthus powellii, Datura innoxia, Glycine max, Gossypium hirsutum, and Nicotiana tabacum  Nicotiana glutinosa fusion hybrid), which had been grown under photomixotrophic conditions, were placed under heterotrophic conditions (darkness and media with 3% sucrose or starch) where the chlorophyll levels declined to near zero. After three transfers over a 70-d period, the cells were placed back into photomixotrophic or photoautotrophic conditions where regreening occurred rapidly and continued growth was observed. This rapid adaptation to photosynthetic conditions contrasts with the original initiation process for these cultures, which required many months and an apparent selection since many of the original cells died. Thus, these seven photosynthetic cell suspension cultures appear to be different from the original cultures due possibly to genetic or adaptive changes.
4293896| An efficient rapid and large-scale in vitro clonal propagation of the valuable medicinal herb Eclipta alba (Asteraceae) by enhanced axillary shoot proliferation in cotyledonary node segments was designed. The medium type, various carbon sources, plant growth regulators, and coconut water markedly influenced in vitro propagation of Eclipta alba. An in vitro plantlet production system has been investigated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with the synergistic combination of benzyladenine (4.4 M), kinetin (4.6 M), 2-isopentenyladenine (4.9 M), gibberellic acid (1.4 M), 5% coconut water, and 3% sucrose which promoted the maximum number of shoots as well as beneficial shoot length. Subculturing of cotyledonary node segments on a similar medium enabled continuous production of healthy shoots with similar frequency. Rooting was highest (94.3%) on full strength MS medium containing 9.8 M indolebutyric acid. Micropropagated plants established in garden soil, farmyard soil, and sand (2:1:1) were uniform and identical to the donor plant with respect to growth characteristics as well as floral features. These plants grew normally without showing any morphological variation. 
29736193|In vitro shoot regeneration from sunflower cotyledonary explants can be obtained in the presence of kinetin and indole-3-acetic acid. In contrast, callus proliferation is obtained in the presence of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid on culture medium. The purpose of this study was to investigate changes in protein profiles during callus and shoot development from cotyledonary explants and to correlate them with ontogenic stages during in vitro culture. Cotyledons cultured in the presence of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid produced friable callus as a result of early division of parenchymatic cells associated with the vascular bundles of the explant. The callogenic ability was independent of the cotyledonary region used as starting explant. Direct shoot organogenesis was observed from the same type of cells growing in culture media supplemented with kinetin and indole-3-acetic acid. In this case, the regeneration potential varied among regions from which the explants were obtained. Protein profiles revealed differences associated with shoots or callus developmental programs. A 27-kDa polypeptide was uniquely detected in the explants undergoing shoot organogenesis. The amount of this polypeptide during the first 4 d of culture increased and was followed by the appearance of meristematic centers in histologically analyzed samples. This polypeptide could be used as a specific marker for in vitro shoot development in this species.
20461558|Direct shoot and cormlet regeneration from leaf explants were obtained in triploid dessert banana cultivar Nanjanagud Rasabale (NR) that is classified under the group 'Silk' and has the genotype AAB. The response for both cormlet and direct shoot formation was observed only in leaf explants obtained from shoots cultured in liquid medium but not in similar explants obtained from shoots grown on gelled medium. Shoot initiation occurred after a sequential culture of leaf (sheath) explants on modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with different growth regulators. In the sequence, the leaf explants were cultured first on medium with a high level (22.4 M) of benzyladenine (BA), second on indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) supplemented medium, and third on reduced BA medium under incubation in the dark. The highest adventitious shoot regeneration in 24% of the explants, with the number of shoots ranging from 2 to 3 per explant, occurred in the explants incubated at the first step in medium with 22.4 and 0.198 M IBA. Further growth and complete shoot formation occurred under incubation in a 16-h photoperiod. While keeping the culture conditions constant and replacing BA with picloram (0.83-20.71 M) in the initial step, adventitious origin of cormlets occurred in 12% of the explants. However, when rhizome explants (also obtained from shoots grown in liquid medium) were cultured with various growth regulators in the first step, medium containing 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (7.82 M) produced friable callus that re-differentiated into roots only. Physical forms of the medium, i.e. agar-gelled or liquid, imparted specific effects on the extent of multiplication of leaf-regenerated shoots with no differences in morphology and growth patterns when compared to those of meristem-derived plants.
20461721|Napin, a storage protein, has been reported to be transcribed abundantly during the pre-embryogenic stage and associated with the induction of Brassica napus secondary embryogenesis. In this study, we studied the distribution pattern of napin in the winter oilseed rape embryogenic tissue in comparison to that of the nonembryogenic tissue using the indirect immunofluorescence localisation coupled with the ultrastructural immunogold labelling techniques. Immunolocalisation studies revealed that the extracellular matrix layer outside the outer epidermal cell wall of B. napus embryogenic tissues contained napin. This is the first study to report the extracellular localisation of napin. In addition, we have also further characterised the expression pattern of Eg1 that encodes for napin in the B. napus embryogenic tissue.
20064951|Nodal cuttings (primary nodal explants) were used to initiate microcutting cultures of Hevea brasiliensis and Theobroma cacao. The physiological stage of growth reached by the branches from which the explants were taken had a considerable influence on culture initiation and response. In both species, the buds of the nodal explants taken from dormant branches (stages I1, I2 and I3 in Theobroma; stage D in Hevea) revealed greater opening ability in vitro and shoot elongation than buds taken from branches in a phase of active meristem growth in Theobroma (stages F1 and F2) or during a foliar growth phase in Hevea (stage C). In Hevea, the branch growth phase effect persisted into the multiplication phase when shoots developed in vitro were used as the source of secondary nodal explants. However, it disappeared during subcultures of primary nodal explants. In both species, the position of the nodes on the branch with respect to the apex also had an effect on culture initiation. The buds of nodes furthest from the apex were more likely to develop into shoots. In Hevea, the position of secondary nodal explants obtained from the primary shoot was seen to vary in effect depending on growth regulator applications during primary culture. These results are analyzed in terms of variations in the balance between endogenous growth promoters/inhibitors in the buds, depending on morphogenic stages and the bud position on the branch.
40663784|Shoot tips and nodes from a genotype of Cistus clusii were cultured on a medium containing Murashige and Skoog macronutrients, Nitsch and Nitsch micronutrients, sucrose, iron, thiamine, myoinositol, and agar. This establishment medium, enriched with growth regulators and the biocide substances Plant Preservative Mixture and Thiabendazole lactate, improved expiant survival by 14-16% and reduced contamination late in culture. For the proliferation stage, the expiants rapidly formed axillary buds on a culture medium containing 6-benzylaminopurine (0.5 mg 1;). The best response for rooting was obtained on a culture medium with a 0.1 mg 1; indolebutyric acid supplement. Rooted plantlets were acclimatized to greenhouse conditions and then transferred to the field in order to evaluate their phenotypic homogeneity. Karyotyping showed that the in vitro propagated plantlets have the same chromosome numbers as the mother plants. The success of this work indicates that micropropagation can be a useful tool for the conservation of clusii Dunal, an endangered plant in Italy.
20461573|St John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) is a valuable plant used as a herbal remedy or in phytopharmaceutical drugs to treat a variety of physical ailments. Much research has been performed to study the biochemical production of secondary metabolites of in vitro cultured plants or organs. However, all of these studies have looked at the regeneration of plants from explants in only one genotype. In addition, no study has revealed the mechanism of plant regeneration in H. perforatum, i.e. organogenesis or somatic embryogenesis. We found that different genotypes Helos, Topas, Elixir, and Numi responded similarly to regeneration medium. The regeneration responses (i.e callus, root, or shoot production) of identical explants from different genotypes were similar. However, the source of explant material (leaves, hypocotyls, and roots) from the same genotype had significant effects on the response to media and plant regeneration frequency. Using scanning electron microscopy and light microscopy, the progress of organogenesis and embryogenesis under similar culture conditions was recorded. Root segments were the most responsive explants, producing the maximum number of shoots per explant of all the genotypes.
4293432|Development of new selectable markers is needed to increase the efficiency and flexibility of plant transformation, and to overcome drawbacks sometimes associated with use of existing markers. A useful alternative to chemical-based selection systems would be a system using visual screening to obtain transgenic lines. Investigations were carried out to determine if the green fluorescent protein (gfp) gene could be utilized alone as a visual screenable marker to produce stably transformed, fertile oat plants. Twelve experiments were conducted in which gfp-based selection was utilized to obtain routinely stable transgenic lines in oat. A synthetic gfp gene under the control of the maize ubiquitin promoter was delivered into embryogenic oat callus via microprojectile bombardment. Cell clusters (1-3 mm) expressing gfp were visually identified using epifluorescence microscopy and physically isolated approximately 3 wk post-bombardment. Fertile, gfp-expressing T0 plants were regenerated from 78% of the glowing cell sectors placed on regeneration medium. T0 plants from 55% of the events produced gfp-expressing progeny in a 3:1 Mendelian ratio. Southern blot and PCR analysis confirmed transgene integration and transmission to progeny. Expression of gfp did not reduce plant growth or fertility. Transgene copy number and integration patterns were similar to those in transgenic plants derived from chemical-based selection systems. The mean transformation frequency, based on fertile events obtained per bombarded plate, was 1.8%. Over 180 independent transgenic oat lines were produced, to date, using only visual screening for expression of gfp, demonstrating efficiency and repeatability of the selection system.
20541007|An efficient system was developed for direct plant regeneration from in vitro-derived leaf explants of Pistacia vera L. cv. Siirt. The in vitro procedure involved four steps that included (1) induction of shoot initials from the regenerated mature leaf tissue, (2) regeneration and elongation of shoots from the shoot initials, (3) rooting of the shoots, and (4) acclimatization of the plantlets. The induction of shoot initials was achieved on an agarified Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with Gamborg vitamins supplemented in different concentrations of benzylaminopurine (BA) and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). The best medium for shoot induction was a MS medium with 1 mgl IAA and 2 mgl BA. Numerous shoot primordia developed within 2-3 wk on the leaf margin and the midrib region, without any callus phase. In the second step, the shoot clumps were separated from the leaf explants and transferred to a MS medium supplemented with 1 mgl BA, resulting in a differentiation of the shoot initials into well-developed shoots. The elongated shoots (&gt;3 cm long) were rooted on a full-strength MS basal medium supplemented with 2 mgl of indole-3-butyric acid in the third stage. Finally, the rooted plants were transferred to soil with an 80% success rate. This protocol was utilized for the in vitro clonal propagation of this important recalcitrant plant species.
4293684|The purpose of this study was to determine simply and accurately ploidy levels as estimated by changes in nuclear DNA content of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) plants regenerated from microspore-derived embryos. Using flow cytometry, the nuclear DNA content of green (83) and albino (222) plants derived using anther culture of 'Bobwhite' and 'Pavon 76', and of their reciprocal F
4293345|Transgenic head cabbage (Brassica oleracea var. capitata), resistant to diamondback moth (Plutella xylostella) larvae, was developed through Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation with Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) cry genes using a modified procedure. Factors important for transformation included cabbage cultivar; preculture and coculture of explants on a callus initiation medium; use of appropriate amount; and delay in initial application of selective agents. A total of 15 independent transformed lines with over 100 plants were obtained from several transformation experiments, representing an overall transformation efficiency of ~1%. Cabbage plants transformed with a synthetic Bt gene, cry1Ab3, were all resistant to larvae of the diamondback moth, whereas all plants transgenic for cry1Ia3, a wild-type Bt gene, were susceptible. As a first step towards testing the hypothesis that reduced exposure of Bt to target insects would delay the evolution of insect resistance to Bt, cry1Ab3 expression was put under the transcriptional control of the soybean wound-inducible vspB promoter and transgenic cabbage was obtained. Insect bioassay showed that such plants were all resistant to diamondback moth even without induction for the expression of Bt.
20064903|Shoot propagation of Persea indica (L.) K. Spreng was achieved using seedling axillary buds cultured on MS (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) medium with 1 mg/l (2.8 M) N-benzyladenine (BA). Forty percent of the obtained shoots did not elongate, but showed bud proliferation, which was maximal (three axillary buds per shoot) at the end of the seventh subculture. Sixty percent of the shoots elongated, did not show bud proliferation, and formed calluses at their base. Successful rooting (84.6%) was achieved dipping the base of each elongated shoot in 3 g/l (16.11 mM) indolebutyric acid (IBA) for 1-2 s, and transferring to half strength MS medium without growth regulators. These shoots presented an acclimatization success of 100%. Results suggest that micropropagated elongated shoots of P. indica can be adequately used in reforestation programs.
4293285|We studied how light from different light sources influences germination and postgerminative growth of plants from somatic embryos and seeds of Norway spruce (Picea abies [L.] Karst). Somatic embryos of three spruce genotypes and seeds were subjected to light from commercially available light sources: Philips TLD Blue 18W/18 (BL), Osram Fluora (FL), Philips Cool White TL 50W/33 (CW), Osram Warm White 18W/30 (WW), Philips Yellow 36W/16 (YE) and Philips TLD Red 36W/15 (RE), 18 h a day, with a photon flux (PAR) at
4293826|Transfer of genes from heterologous species provides the means of selectively introducing new traits into crop plants and expanding the gene pool beyond what has been available to traditional breeding systems. With the recent advances in genetic engineering of plants, it is now feasible to introduce into crop plants, genes that have previously been inaccessible to the conventional plant breeder, or which did not exist in the crop of interest. This holds a tremendous potential for the genetic enhancement of important food crops. However, the availability of efficient transformation methods to introduce foreign DNA can be a substantial barrier to the application of recombinant DNA methods in some crop plants. Despite significant advances over the past decades, development of efficient transformation methods can take many years of painstaking research. The major components for the development of transgenic plants include the development of reliable tissue culture regeneration systems, preparation of gene constructs and efficient transformation techniques for the introduction of genes into the crop plants, recovery and multiplication of transgenic plants, molecular and genetic characterization of transgenic plants for stable and efficient gene expression, transfer of genes to elite cultivars by conventional breeding methods if required, and the evaluation of transgenic plants for their effectiveness in alleviating the biotic and abiotic stresses without being an environmental biohazard. Amongst these, protocols for the introduction of genes, including the efficient regeneration of shoots in tissue cultures, and transformation methods can be major bottlenecks to the application of genetic transformation technology. Some of the key constraints in transformation procedures and possible solutions for safe development and deployment of transgenic plants for crop improvement are discussed.
41432437|Solarium chrysotrichum (Solanaceae) synthesizes a family of six antifungal spirostanol saponins designated as SC-1 to SC-6. The production of saponins by wild-type plants is variable depending on the environmental conditions. In order to develop an in vitro system for the sustained production of these saponins, transformed cell suspension cultures of S. chrysotrichum were established from nodal expiants of 3-mo-old plantlets by infecting with the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58/pBI12. From these cultures, kanamycin-resistant and phytohormone-independent cell suspension line C58 5.1.1 was obtained. PCR and Southern blot analyses were used to confirm the integration of the wild-type T-DNA into the plant genome. Batch cultures of the C58 5.1.1 cell line were grown in phytohormone-free MS liquid medium for 25 d. First-order growth kinetics and the production of the antifungal saponins (SC-2, SC-3, and SC-4) were determined by dry weight and quantified by HPLC, respectively, from the cells as well as the culture medium. Based on the cell biomass, the specific growth rate was 0.09 d and the yield of SC-2 reached 5.5% of dry weight, representing 40 times higher amount than that produced in plant leaves. SC-3 was recovered with a maximum yield of 0.9% of dry weight, whereas SC-4 was accumulated at 1.1% of dry weight. Saponins SC-2 and SC-3 were also excreted into the culture medium in low concentrations.
20541019|The present study demonstrates the establishment of embryogenic tissue from seeds and (seedling-derived hypocotyls) shoot base explants derived from seedlings of Eremochloa ophiuroides. The highest percentage of callus induction obtained from seed and young shoot base explants was 52.0% and 66.6% on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal media supplemented with 9.0 M and 18.1 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), respectively. The type of callus obtained from both types of explants was off-white to yellow in color and non-friable and shiny in texture. Excised callus from the explants was subcultured onto fresh media of the same recipe for further proliferation. After 10-12 d of subculture, a yellow, globular, friable embryogenic callus was obtained from the initial callus. The highest percentage of embryogenic calli obtained at 40.0% was observed on media containing 2.2 M 2,4-D. The highest regeneration rate of 46.6% was observed on MS media supplemented with 0.4 M 2,4-D and 2.2 M benzylaminopurine (BA). Regenerated shoots were rooted in MS basal medium. Plants with well-developed roots were transferred to pots containing a soil mix and acclimatized in greenhouse conditions. Four weeks post-transfer, acclimatized plants showed 100% survival and remained healthy and green. This is the first report of a successful method for induction of somatic embryogenesis with subsequent plant regeneration in centipede grass and demonstrates the establishment of embryogenic callus and efficient plant regeneration with potential application in the development of genetic transformation systems for centipede grass.
4293051| The morphogenetic response of various explants of seven different cultivars of a food legume, the pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan L.), has been studied. The stimulation and elongation of shoot buds into shoots derived from the mature embryo axis and intact seed on Murashige and Skoog's medium supplemented with 2.32 M kinetin and 22.2 M benzyladenine was found to be optimum in Murashige and Skoog's medium supplemented with 0.46 M kinetin, 0.53 M naphthalene acetic acid, and 0.29 M gibberellic acid. Even though the response of these two explants for formation of shoot buds in all the genotypes is 30-100% depending on media composition, subsequent growth and elongation of these shoot buds into plants is genotype dependent and is restricted to two genotypes. Cotyledon and epicotyl explants of pigeon pea cultivars on the other hand differentiated directly into four to eight and two to four shoots, respectively, depending on the media composition and genotype. In vitro rhizogenesis of regenerated shoots was 80% and the survival of these plantlets in the field was 70-80%. 
41318713|Differences were shown in the environmental conditions inside four types of non-ventilated culture vessels (glass babyfood jars capped with metal steel or Magenta B-caps, jam glass jars capped with metal steel caps, and Magenta GA7 culture vessels) that were incubated in the same external growth room conditions. Vessel light transmittance varied from 83% to 53% and determined the availability of photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) for expiants. The mean of medium desiccation in the culture period (30 d) was from 2.8 g in vessels with the lowest rate of gas exchange (0.02h) to 10.4 g in vessels with the highest (1.1 h).In all cases, the temperature inside the culture vessel increased during the light period and decreased during the dark period, and relative humidity was close to 100%. Results of in vitro growth and morphogenesis of Dianthus caryophyllus L. cvs. Scania, White Sim, Angeline, and Pink Calypso provided evidence that the environmental differences detected inside these four types of non-ventilated culture vessels was sufficient to affect micropropagation, mainly related with the specific sensitivity of each cultivar to the gas exchange and medium desiccation determined by the vessel type.
4293260| Adventitious shoots were induced on the proximal portion of leaves excised from Fagus orientalis shoot cultures derived from a 2-mo.-old or a 4-yr-old seedling. Up to 90% of the explants formed between 13 and 19 buds after culture on Woody Plant Medium containing 2.9 M indole-3-acetic acid and 4.5 M thidiazuron. Adventitious buds developed mostly on petiole stub callus, but also on the midvein. The histological events leading to shoot organogenesis were examined. Some shoots developed directly from subepidermis or epidermis, but most originated indirectly from cell file proliferation produced by periclinally dividing cells subadjacent to the epidermis. Some cells in the outermost layers of these files became meristematic and divided extensively, resulting in the formation of meristemoids after 16 d of culture. Dedifferentiation into meristematic cells, which exhibited a large, prominent nucleus, densely-stained cytoplasm, and a high nucleus-to-cell area ratio, was generally associated with anticlinal divisions in cells previously originated by periclinal division. Subepidermal cell proliferation occurred mainly in the abaxial surface of the explant, which initially formed a diffuse cambium and later evolved to a phellogenic cambium. Some meristemoids were also differentiated by lenticel phellogen. Organized cell divisions in meristemoids gave rise to bud primordia that emerged from the explant surface and differentiated a protoderm. The progressive structural differentiation of the apical meristem, leaf primordia, and procambial strands led, after about 28 d of culture, to shoots with vascular connections with treachery elements previously differentiated in adjacent tissues. 
20461567|A butenolide (3-methyl-2H-furo[2,3-c]pyran-2-one, the phyto-active compound isolated from smoke) was tested for its effect on somatic embryogenesis with an important species for commercial horticulture, Baloskion tetraphyllum. When somatic embryos of B. tetraphyllum were transferred to basal medium supplemented with butenolide, enhanced development of growth-competent somatic embryos was observed. This study demonstrates that butenolide exhibits promotive effects on both germination of seed (stimulation of zygotic embryos), and stimulation of development and maturation of somatic embryos with B. tetraphyllum, providing a potential new class of phyto-active compounds for in vitro culture.
20065031|Segments of male inflorescences of medicinal yam (Dioscorea floribunda) cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 13.94 M kinetin (Kn) resulted in the conversion of floral buds into vegetative buds and these later developed into plantlets. Growth and multiplication of shoots could be obtained by culturing individual shoots in MS modified basal medium, replacing the MS standard three vitamins with
20461543|We have investigated the interaction of Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus, a non-nodulating endophytic nitrogen-fixing bacterium isolated from the intercellular spaces of sugarcane, with Arabidopsis thaliana and the crop plants maize (Zea mays), rice (Oryza sativa), wheat (Triticum aestivum), oilseed rape (Brassica napus), tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum), and white clover (Trifolium repens). Using seedlings grown aseptically in sucrose-containing culture media, we have shown that inoculation with very low numbers of G. diazotrophicus results in extensive intracellular colonization of root meristems and progressive systemic intracellular root colonization. Light microscopic examination of thin sections of resin-embedded root tips of Arabidopsis and these crop plants inoculated with -glucuronidase (GUS)-labeled and with NifH promoter--GUS-labeled G. diazotrophicus showed blue-stained G. diazotrophicus within the cytoplasm of root cells, indicating that intracellular conditions were suitable for nitrogenase gene expression. Electron microscopy confirmed that these blue-stained intracellular G. diazotrophicus were within membrane-bounded vesicles. We discuss whether these novel inoculations with G. diazotrophicus are likely to enable non-nodular endosymbiotic nitrogen fixation and whether these inoculations can also provide a plant system to investigate the endosymbiotic theory of the origin of eukaryotic organelles.
20461720|The rooting capacity of microshoots derived from two mature Eucalyptus urophylla X Eucalyptus grandis half-sib clones kept for 3 y under intensive micropropagation was assessed in different in vitro conditions. A first set of experiments established that clone 147 microshoots rooted earlier and in greater proportions, while producing more adventitious roots overall than their homologs from clone 149. Modifying the composition of the basal 1/2-MS-derived rooting medium by 1/4-MS or Knop macronutrients, or reducing sucrose concentration to 10 g l did not enhance the rooting rates. However, together with the growth regulators added, they had a significant effect on the number of adventitious roots formed. With rooting rates reaching 81%, the higher rootability of clone 147 over clone 149 was further confirmed by the second set of experiments with significant effects of the various auxins tested and strong clone  auxin interactions on the proportions of rooted microshoots and on the number of adventitious roots. The best rooting scores were given by 5 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and 12.5 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), whereas the microshoots exposed to 5 or 12.5 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) were less responsive. Lower light intensities did not improve significantly root capacities, although differences might exist according to the genotype. Overall, root and shoot elongation was stimulated by light. At the end of the experiment, the rooted microshoots were markedly taller than the non-rooted ones, with significant influences of auxins and light intensity, and to a lesser extent, of the genotypes.
23254896|A protocol was developed to induce and identify imazapyr tolerance in sugarcane, which involved induction of somaclonal variation via exposure to 8 or 16 mM ethyl methanesulfonate for 4 h, followed by a stepwise increase in imazapyr concentration in the medium from 0.08 to 0.16 M. The regenerated plantlets were then acclimatized for 3 mo after which they were sprayed with 182 ga.i.ha -1 imazapyr, and the above-ground biomass was determined after 47 d. Following a 1-mo waiting period for the putative tolerant plants to regrow, acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS; EC 2.2.1.6) enzyme assays of the plants that survived and showed a normal growth pattern were undertaken. Based on the enzymatic I 50 values, three imazapyr-tolerant genotypes were identified with an AHAS activity of 2.8 to 4.0 times that in sensitive sugarcane plants.
4293109|Rapid micropropagation of Saussurea lappa C.B. Clarke, an endangered medicinal plant endemic in the valley of Kashmir and western Himalayas of northern India, was achieved by culturing shoot tips (0.5-1 cm) of 2-wk-old seedlings on Murashige and Skoog's medium (MS) supplemented with thidiazuron (TDZ,
4293897|In vitro propagation systems by means of areole activation were developed for Turbinicarpus laui, T. lophophoroides, T. pseudopectinatus, T. schmiedickeanus subsp. flaviflorus, T. schmiedickeanus subsp. klinkerianus, T. schmiedickeanus subsp. schmiedickeanus, T. subterraneus, and T. valdezianus. In vitro-germinated seedlings were used as a primary source of explants. Multiple shoot formation from areoles was achieved for three explant types (apical, lateral, and transverse), cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with 3% sucrose,
4293037|The responses of two lisianthus (Eustoma grandiflorum) inbred lines and their heterotic (in vivo) F
20461563|The influence of partial substitution of agar by galactomannans (GMs) in culture media was studied in pear (Pyrus communis L. cv. 'Durondeau') micropropagation. GMs, extracted from seeds of Cassia fastuosa (cassia) or Cyamopsis tetragonolobus (guar gum, a commercial GM), were mixed in equal proportions with agar to a final concentration of 0.3% (w/v) for each type of gelling agent. The production of multiple shoots and the formation of roots from shoots were compared with the control solidified with agar alone at a concentration of 0.6% (w/v). In the media solidified with the mixtures of agar/guar and agar/cassia GMs, an increase of 32 and 17%, respectively, was obtained in the number of regenerated shoots. The modified media promoted a higher number of roots and increased the rooting percentage. A maximum of 91% rooting was obtained in the medium solidified with the agar/cassia GM and containing 9.80 M indole-3-butyric acid. Less callus formation at the base of the shoot was also observed on this medium. The improved in vitro performance of shoot formation and rooting, combined with a significantly lower cost, suggests a potential use of agar/GM gels in plant tissue culture.
4293452|Cultures of two cranberry (Vaccinium macrocarpon Ait.) cultivars, 'Ben Lear' and 'Pilgrim', and three cranberry clones from natural stands in Newfoundland were established in a nutrient medium containing
20171631| Different ecotypes of reed (Phragmites communis Trinius) provide an ideal resource for studies on plant environmental adaptations and presence of genes relating to stress resistance. Dune reed is a drought-tolerant reed ecotype growing in the desert regions of north-west China. In this work, in vitro culture systems of dune reed and local swamp reed (as control) were established by optimizing the culture conditions for each of them. Bright yellow calluses were induced on a Murashige and Skoog medium containing 4.5 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 5.4 M naphthaleneacetic acid and 2.2 M benzyladenine. Benzyladenine promoted callus induction, but was not required for callus maintenance. Four types of callus have been identified from each of the reed ecotypes. Two types of callus, i.e. type A (formed normal green shoots) and type C (formed albino plants), were both found as embryogenic calluses. The optimal concentrations of 2,4-D to maintain embryogenic callus were 2.3-4.5 M for dune reed and 9.0-13.5 M for swamp reed. Plant regeneration was achieved from types A and C callus in a hormone-free medium. The embryogenic calluses of swamp reed have been maintained for over 2 yr and still retain their strong embryogenic potential; however, those of dune reed gradually lost their embryogenic potential after only 7 mo. of culture. Regenerated plants from the two reed ecotypes showed, after a growth season, similar morphology and the same chromosome number (2n = 8x = 96, octoploid) as the wild plants. 
4293496|A protocol for in vitro propagation of Rollinia mucosa, an important medicinal plant, was developed. The presence of
20461741|This study describes in vitro shoot induction and plant regeneration from a mature apical meristem and nodal explants of the endangered medicinal shrub Vitex agnuscastus. Multiple shoots were induced directly from the axis of nodal and apical meristem explants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 3% sucrose and different concentrations (1.0, 1.5, 2.0, and 2.5 mg/l) of 6-benzyl aminopurine (BAP) in combination with Kinetin (Kin) and -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA), both at 0.1 mg/l. BAP and Kinetin were used as supplements to MS basal medium, either individually or in combination with auxins. The optimal concentration of BAP for inducing bud break was found to be 2.0 mg/l when Kinetin was at 0.1 mg/l. Regeneration frequency was highest for both apical meristem and nodal explants (94.5% and 90.3%, respectively) when explants were cultured on MS medium supplemented with BAP (2.0 mg/l) and Kin (0.1 mg/l). A maximum of 7.70.4 and 6.70.2 shoots were obtained per explant for apical meristem and nodal explants, respectively. Regenerated shoots, transferred to MS medium supplemented with either 1.0 or 1.5 mg/l BAP combined with 0.1 mg/l GA, showed maximum elongation of 6.70.4 and 6.01.3 cm in apical meristem and nodal explants, respectively. In vitro regenerated shoots transferred to half-strength MS medium supplemented with 0.1 mg/l IBA induced 90.4% of the shoots to form roots after 30-35 d of culture. Up to 80% of the regenerated shoots were successfully established in soil in the greenhouse.
41318706|Maturation of Abies numidica De Lann. somatic embryos was tested on media with abscisic acid and various maltose and polyethylene glycol-4000 concentrations. The effect of basal medium and subculture period on maturation was also examined. The maturation of somatic embryos was promoted by polyethylene glycol-4000, at 7.5-10%. Three to 6% maltose significantly enhanced the yield of mature embryos. The most effective somatic embryo maturation occurred when embryognie tissue was transferred to maturation medium after 14-21 d cultivation on proliferation medium. The ability for A. numidica cultures to form cotyledonary somatic embryos was assessed over a period of 3 yr. Plantlets germinated on half-strength SH (Schenk and Hildebrandt) medium with charcoal and survived transfer to the soil.
42568811|An efficient protocol has been devised for the propagation and field establishment of Eulophia cullenii (Wight) Bl., a terrestrial orchid having ornamental potentialities, and is critically endangered in Western Ghats, India. Seeds extracted from 60-90-d-old capsules germinated in  A MS,  MS, Knudson C, or Mitra liquid medium developed into 1.4-2.5-mm-diameter protocorms in 60 d. Supplementation of organic additives like coconut water, peptone, yeast extract, and casein acid hydrolysate (CH) significantly enhanced protocorm growth. Upon subculture onto agargelled Mitra medium fortified with 0.05% CH, 56% of protocorms regenerated into shoots through the formation of linear mini-rhizomes. The regenerated shoots grew vigorously in  MS, producing new rhizomes. Mature rhizomes from axenic seedlings produced maximum (13  1.4) shoots/whole rhizome in  MS fortified with 44.4 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP), in 120-150 d. Horizontal and longitudinal halves of the rhizome also gave multiple shoots (6-8.5) in the presence of 44.4 M BAP. Shoots or shoot clumps sub-cultured onto  MS basal medium produced roots followed by rhizomes in 60-150 d. Seedlings with mature rhizomes showed 70% establishment in the nursery and added a new rhizome at the end of one growth cycle. An average of 70.6% of the rhizomes originating from seedlings during the second growth cycle sprouted to produce new shoots, when planted in the native localities. Asymbiotic germination and cloning through rhizomes thus can provide a large number of vigorous plants of E. cullenii for ornamental exploitation as well as eco-restoration, if rhizome as storage organ is ensured in the propagule.
23016615|We previously reported a partial agricultural and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) characterization of two new pineapple somaclones (P3R5 and Dwarf) derived from in vitro culture of the donor cv. Red Spanish Pinar. Both somaclonal variants showed different AFLP banding patterns compared to the donor cultivar, although they were separated by less than 0.09 U of genetic distance. The present report shows data of various indicators of morphology and physiology of P3R5 and Dwarf D leaves. The stoma diameter, number of stomata per square millimiter, diameter of leaf vascular tissue, thickness of the leaf aquiferous parenchyma, and thickness of the leaf photosynthetic parenchyma were measured. The photosynthetic rate, the transpiration rate, the water use efficiency, the internal leaf CO 2 concentration, and the chlorophyll pigment contents were recorded as well. Between the somaclonal variant P3R5 and the donor genotype, statistically significant differences were recorded in all indicators with the exception of the stoma diameter and the photosynthetic rate. Comparing the somaclonal variant Dwarf and the cv. Red Spanish Pinar (donor), statistically significant differences were also recorded in all parameters except in the stoma diameter and in the transpiration rate. This investigation was performed to demonstrate that small changes in the pineapple DNA may result in relevant phenotypic modifications.
23016699|Embelia ribes, an important vulnerable medicinal liana, was regenerated through organogenesis and embryogenesis using leaf explants. Leaf explants produced organogenic calluses on MS medium supplemented with 1.0 mg 1 -1 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4-D) and 0.5 mg 1 -1 6-benzylaminopurine. Shoot regeneration was obtained from organogenic calluses on MS medium containing different concentrations of thidiazuron (TDZ) and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). The frequency of shoot bud organogenesis was highest (23.9 shoots/explant) in MS medium containing 0.5 mg 1 -1 TDZ and 0.1 mg 1 -1 IAA. The best result for induction of embryogenic callus was noticed in the combination of 2.0 mg 1 -1 TDZ and 0.5 mg 1 -1 2,4-D. This callus, maintained in the same medium, showed the highest differentiation of embryos (56.5%) after 6 wk of culture. Embryos were transferred to MS medium supplemented with different concentrations of TDZ, and this facilitated conversion of embryos into plants. After 6 wk of subculture, MS medium with 0.05 mg 1 -1 TDZ favored the highest percentage (52.2%) embryo conversion. As per the present protocol, 52.2% of the embryos underwent conversion, and a mean number of 29.5 shoots per culture was obtained. Shoots developed from both types of calluses were rooted on half-strength MS basal medium supplemented with 1.0 mg 1 -1 indole-3-butyric acid. HPLC-UV assay demonstrated the highest embelin content (5.33% w/w) in the embryogenic callus cultures. Embelin was isolated from embryogenic callus and was identified using IR and 1 H NMR studies.
4293924|This paper considers public attitudes toward genetically modified plants in the fields or those soon to be planted. Analyzing a regional public opinion survey of 680 respondents in Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana, New Mexico, and Oklahoma carried out in the Spring-Summer of 2004, we look at the importance of public attitudes toward the three generations of agricultural biotechnology in light of the changing regulatory environment. Specifically, we ask questions concerning the first generation of plants with agronomic qualities, comparing our findings with previous studies, then look at perceptions of the second generation of crops with product quality characteristics, and the third generation, which expresses industrial products and pharmaceutical drugs. We look at perceived benefits, the likelihood, that these plants might accidentally enter the food supply, the likelihood that these plants might be eaten by the respondent, as well as how worried and angry the respondent would be as a result. Findings suggest that the public is still largely unaware of food biotechnology and genetically modified food products in their life. When compared with the first and second generation agricultural biotechnology products, survey respondents indicated that third generation products are not only likely to provide greater benefits, but are also potentially the source of more worry and anger if accidentally eaten.
40981335|Agrobacterium-mediaied transformation of Carrizo citrange [Citrus sinensis (L.) Osbeck  Poncirus trifoliata (L.) Raf.] with a binary vector containing a novel bifunctional reporter-selection fusion gene comprising an inframe fusion between the manA gene and egfp gene is detailed. This system combined the phosphomannose isomerase positive selection system with the ability to monitor gene expression in a non-destructive manner using EGFP. Transgenic plants stably expressing the EGFP protein were regenerated following Agrobacterium-medmted transformation using a vector containing this fusion gene. We also obtained comparable transformation efficiencies when Carrizo explants were transformed using another Agrobacterium strain containing a binary vector with a bifunctional egfp-nptll fusion gene. Regenerating shoots were selected on medium containing 15 g L mannose supplemented with 5 g L sucrose for the nptII-based selection or on medium containing 100 mg L kanamycin for the -based selection. Our results indicated that the mannose-based antibiotic-free selection combined with visual identification of transgenic shoots using EGFP allows for early elimination of escape non-transgenic shoots and can provide a viable alternative to antibiotic-based selection systems in the genetic transformation of citrus and other crops.
4293812| Indirect somatic embryogenesis, encapsulation, and plant regeneration was achieved with the rare rhoeophytic woody medicinal plant Rotula aquatica Lour. (Boraginaceae). Friable callus developed from leaf and internode explants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 0.45 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) was most effective for the induction of somatic embryos. Subculture of the callus onto half-strength MS medium with the same concentration of 2,4-D resulted in highly embryogenic callus. Suspension culture was superior to solid medium culture for somatic embryogenesis. Embryogenic callus during subsequent transfer to suspension cultures of half-strength MS medium having 0.23 M 2,4-D induced the highest number of somatic embryos (a mean of 25.6 embryos per 100 mg callus) and the embryos were grown up to the torpedo stage. Transfer of embryos to half-strength MS basal solid medium allowed development of 50% of the embryos to the cotyledonary stage. Of the cotyledonary embryos, 90% underwent conversion to plantlets on the same medium. Encapsulated cotyledonary embryos exhibited 100% conversion to plantlets. Ninety-five percent of the plantlets established in field conditions survived, and were morphologically identical to the mother plant. 
4293733|This article reviews techniques for gene identification and cloning in allohexaploid bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). Gene identification and cloning in wheat are complicated by the large size and high redundancy of the genome. Both classical mutagenesis and transposon tagging are important tools for the study of grain dormancy and plant hormone signaling in wheat. While classical mutagenesis can be used to identify wheat mutants with altered hormone sensitivity, it can be difficult to clone the corresponding genes. We review the techniques available for gene identification in wheat, and propose that transposon-based activation tagging will be an important tool for wheat genetics.
23321155|A simple and efficient micropropagation method was established for direct protocorm-like body (PLB) formation and plant regeneration from flower stalk internodes of a sympodial orchid, Epidendrum radicans. Small transparent tissues formed on surfaces and cut ends of flower stalk internodes on a modified half-strength Murashige and Skoog basal medium with or without thidiazuron (TDZ) after 12 wk of culture. In the light, the transparent tissues enlarged and turned into organized calluses on most of the explants. However, PLBs formed only on a medium supplemented with 0.45 M TDZ within 2 mo. of culture. Sucrose, NH4NO3, and KNO3 were used in media to test their effects on PLB proliferation and shooting. The best response on number of PLBs per tube was 23.6 at 40 gl-1 sucrose, 825 mgl-1 NH4NO3, and 950 mgl-1 KNO3, and the highest number of PLBs with shoots was found at 10 gl-1 sucrose, 825 mgl-1 NH4NO3, and 950 mgl-1 KNO3. Homogenized PLB tissues produced by blending were used to test the effects of four cytokinins [TDZ, N6-benzyladenine (BA), zeatin-riboside, and kinetin] on PLB proliferation and shoot formation. The best responses on number of PLBs per tube, proliferation rate, and number of PLBs with shoots per tube were obtained at 4.44 M BA, 0.28 M zeatin-riboside, and 1.39 M kinetin, respectively. Normal plantlets converted from PLBs on the same TDZ-containing medium after 1 mo. of culture. The optimized procedure required about 1213 wk from the initiation of PLBs to plantlet formation. The regenerated plants grew well with an almost 100% survival rate when acclimatized in a greenhouse.
4293278|The aim of this research was to isolate protoplasts from in vitro-grown quince BA 29 leaves. Effects of various concentrations of cellulase and pectinase and different incubation periods were evaluated. The most effective treatment included (per ml) 50 units cellulase and 10 units pectinase, in the incubation medium and incubation for 21 h at 50 rpm in the dark at
4293668|The composition of the gaseous environment within tissue culture vessels is a critical factor in determining in vitro plant growth and morphogenic responsiveness. Consequently, the provision of an adequate and sustainable oxygen supply for cultured plant cells (including isolated protoplasts), tissues and organs is a crucial prerequisite for optimization and regulation of such cultural responses. During the past decade, research has focused on improving growth and development using artificial gas carriers based on inert perfluorocarbon (PFC) liquids and hemoglobin (Hb) solution. Supplementation of culture media with such artificial oxygen carriers has demonstrated beneficial effects of increased and sustainable cellular mitotic division and subsequent biomass production in a diverse range of plant species, during both short- and longer-term culture. Studies have targeted systems where oxygen availability is actually or potentially a major growth-limiting factor. Undoubtedly, gas carrier-facilitated improvements in regulating the supply of respiratory gases to cultured cells, tissues and organs will have increasingly important biotechnological and practical implications in the context of plant micropropagation, somatic hybridization, transgenic plant production, and secondary product biosynthesis.
4293247|Five distinct steps can be recognized in the establishment of a plant in a commercial micropropagation system, especially if the most utilized approach (shoot culture) is the focus. Failure at any one step can make the total system commercially unworkable. When one considers a plant without extensive previous history of microculture, the first step involves an analysis of the potential market (economic reality) as well as the plant's general growth habit (biological reality). For the latter, the general growth habit of the plant can provide valuable predictive information as to the potential ease of microculture. For example, plants showing indeterminant herbaceous growth (e.g., Chrysanthemum, Solarium, Dieffenbachia) or continuous woody seasonal growth (e.g., Betula, Ulmus, Thuja) are generally much more amenable to microculture than those that are determinant herbaceous (e.g., Panix, Paeonia) or episodic woody organisms (e.g., Quercus, Pinus). At times, an episodic habitat can be overcome in microculture (Syringa, Rhododendron). The next four steps involve the actual manipulation and microculture of the plant and include the initiation, stabilization, optimization, and production phases. The most intensive analytical step is usually the optimization phase in which plant growth regulator response curves, replication, repetition through multiple subcultures, and evaluation of productivity and product quality are involved. The intent of this discussion is to help develop a decision tool to be used as a first approach to designing a potential new micropropagation system for an untested plant genotype.
4293886|Capsicum regeneration is often obtained through direct (adventitious) regeneration and only a few reports claim indirect regeneration (through callus) as an option to obtain complete plants. A possible reason for this may be because Capsicum cultures offer a narrow window in time for the regeneration process to occur, and after that, the ability to regenerate plants rapidly diminishes. In this study, the C. baccatum radicle-side half-seed was the explant of choice to induce the formation of callus on semisolid Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium supplemented with
20064990|One of the first Azorean endemic vascular taxa chosen for the development of in vitro multiplication techniques was Hypericum foliosum Aiton, due to its colonizing ability (Sjgren, 1984), a loss of seed germination capacity after only 1 yr of storage (Maciel, 1994), and the populations' generally low number of individuals. The following culture media were tested using Hypericum foliosum's single node cuttings: Murashige and Skoog (1962), Roest and Bockelmman (1973), Lloyd and McCown (1980), Crte and Mendona (1985), and Cellrov et al. (1992). Further experiments were performed on CM medium supplemented with four different growth regulators: -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), N-benzyladenine (BA), ,-(dimethylallyl) aminopurine (2iP), and kinetin (KIN). The acclimatization stage was carried out in Jiffy 7 pots and in a 2:1 or 1:1 peat/perlite mixture. We found that micropropagation of Hypericum foliosum is possible on CM medium and that the best results with growth regulators were achieved with the following supplements: 0.1 mg/l (0.4 M) BA and 0.5 mg/l (2.6 M) NAA + 1.0 mg/l (4.4 M) BA (in the initiation stage), and 0.1 mg/l (0.4 M) BA (in the elongation stage). As for culture multiplication, 0.1 mg/l (0.4 M) BA (in the initiation stage) and 0.5 mg/l (2.6 M) NAA + 1.0 mg/l (4.4 M) BA (both in the initiation and elongation stages), proved to be the most efficient concentrations. The acclimatization stage was successfully performed in Jiffy 7 pellets.
42568821|Eucalypts are highly regarded plantation trees due to their fast growing nature, high water consumption, tolerance to abiotic stresses, and ease of conversion to pulp and paper. We screened five genotypes of Eucalyptus camaldulensis (T5, BD4, 1-7-1, H1, and SH4) and three genotypes of the E. camaldulensis  Eucalyptus urophylla hybrid (H4, 58H2, and 27A2) for salt tolerance. Fresh weight and leaf area in hybrid genotypes (H4, 58H2, and 27A2) were greater than those in the E. camaldulensis population after plantlets were subjected to 200 mM NaCl for 14 d. The chlorophyll a content in hybrid genotypes decreased by 19.71-37.11% compared to 51.45-66.00% decline in E. camaldulensis. Similarly, total chlorophyll content was retained at a high level in the hybrid population, leading to stabilization of the net photosynthetic rate. The amount of proline, an osmolyte, was significantly increased in all Eucalyptus genotypes when exposed to 200 mM NaCl. Multivariate analyses of proline accumulation, photosynthetic pigment degradation, diminishing chlorophyll fluorescence, P n reduction, and growth inhibition in saltstressed plantlets of Eucalyptus genotypes were performed to classify salt-tolerant-and salt-sensitive groupings. The hybrid eucalypt genotypes H4, 58H2, and 27A2 were identified as salt tolerant while the selection genotypes of E. camaldulensis, T5, BD4, 1-7-1, HI, and SH4, were classified as salt susceptible.
29736162|Micropropagation via enhanced axillary shoot proliferation was investigated in the ornamental Eucalyptus cv. 'Urrbrae Gem' using in vitro germinated seedlings and was successfully achieved using woody plant medium (WPM) supplemented with 2.2 M benzylaminopurine, 1.0 M -naphthaleneacetic acid, and 1.5 M gibberellic acid (GA), gelled with 5 gl Phytagel. Shoot proliferation was greater on WPM and QL media with GA compared to B5, AP, and TK media with or without GA. GA was required for shoot elongation as the internodes were otherwise very short and unsuitable for multiplication or root initiation. Root initiation was improved using (1/2)WPM supplemented with 20 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) over a 7 d pulse, followed by subculture to IBA-free medium, compared to placing shoots on low levels of IBA for 4-6 wk. Plantlets were successfully hardened off to the natural environment via a fogger at 67% relative humidity at 21C for 3 d and continued to thrive as potted plants. This is the first report of successful micropropagation in an ornamental eucalypt (subgenus Symphyomyrtus) from seedling explants.
20064887|Plantlet regeneration of salgareo pine (Pinus nigra Arn. ssp. salzmannii (Dunal) Franco) was achieved from cotyledons. The data showed that the best differentiation response occurred when cotyledons, from 1-d-old embryos germinated in darkness, were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium (half-strength macroelements) with 22 M N-benzyladenine (BA) and 0.05 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) for 2-3 wk. Shoot development was obtained by subculturing treated explants on the same medium without growth regulators. Shoots were successfully micropropagated by sequential subculturing them on medium containing growth regulators (5 M BA and 0.005 M NAA) and on hormone-free medium for 2 and 12 wk, respectively. To induce adventitious roots, shoots were treated with 3 M NAA and 8 M indole-3-butyric acid for 2 wk, followed by transfer to Murashige and Skoog medium (-strength macroelements,
4293331|Embryogenesis is a phase of development that has been understudied at the molecular level, especially in conifers. Somatic embryogenesis, the asexual propagation of embryos, provides insights into development and has major applications in the forestry industry. Loblolly pine is the most important commercial species in the United States; however, it is recalcitrant to somatic embryogenesis methods. An appreciation of gene expression and the development of 'expression markers' would allow us to follow conifer embryogenesis more closely and to gain some insight into the metabolic states of zygotic and somatic embryos. We have employed the techniques of differential display to identify genes whose mRNA abundance changes over the course of development. We have isolated around 500 cDNAs and propose the establishment of a database of transcript levels in somatic and zygotic pine embryos over the course of development using cDNA arrays. Approximately one-third of our cDNAs have similarity to sequences in the Genbank. Our intention is to gain insight into cell physiology and biochemistry by identifying inducible transcripts. This information will form the basis of testable hypotheses regarding manipulation of embryo development in tissue culture. Experiments deriving from transcript profiling will provide insight into development. The 'expression markers' will allow a classification system more closely tied to metabolic state and the integration of these data into ongoing physiological research will lead to improved protocols for somatic embryogenesis.
4293533|In vitro plantlets of Phalaenopsis 'Happy Valentine', Neofinetia falcate Hu, Cymbidium kanran Makino, and Cymbidium goeringii Reichb. f. were grown under photoautotrophic [high photosynthetic photon flux (PPF), high CO
20064843|Endogenous and exogenous volatile substances were analyzed during 30 days' incubation of four cultivars of the Prunus avium species grown in vitro on a proliferation medium. Cultivars Bigarreau Moreau and Bigarreau Burlat show photosynthetic capability at
20461681|Plantlet regeneration in Prosopis laevigata (Humb. & Bonpl. ex Willd.) Johnston (Fabaceae), a multipurpose tree, has been achieved from cotyledonary nodes excised from in vitro grown seedlings. The explants were cultured on MS media containing different concentrations of N-6 benzyladenine (BA) and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and a mixture of organic components. The highest number (3.37+0.51) of multiple shoots was observed in MS media containing 2,4-D (9.05 M)+BA (6.62 M). The regenerated shoots were then transferred onto half-strength MS medium containing a plant growth regulator that was either: indole-3-butyric acid, 1-naphthaleneacetic, indole-3-acetic acid, or 2,4-D as well as phytagel or vermiculite for adventitious root initiation. Best rooting efficiency of 44.0% was obtained when NAA (16.11 M) and vermiculite were used. After rooting, the cloned plantlets were successfully hardened to ex vitro conditions. This work may help to reduce the devastation caused by the overexploitation of this species.
4293484| Construction and operation of a device to measure gel rigidity is described. A commercially available force gauge capable of recording peak force measurements of up to 200  0.1 g is mounted on an easily constructed device consisting of a frame with a motor which moves a platform supporting a Petri plate up or down at a controlled speed. The force gauge probe pierces the gel in the Petri plate, at which time the peak force is recorded to give an estimate of gel hardness. Using both agar and gelrite, an example of the use of the device is given. Tests on a series of different calcium concentrations in gels of varied strengths demonstrate that the patterns of gel hardness differ. Finally, the rigidities of three typical media (half-strength Litvay, DCR, and Murashige and Skoog) on both gel types are compared. 
20065010|This paper reviews some of the recent research on micropropagation of mature larch (Larix) trees. Different methods are reported concerning the use of the organogenic and embryogenic potential of adult plant material. Successful plant regeneration of adult larch trees by combining tissue culture methods is presented. The growth behavior of regenerated plants was compared with seedlings. Special attention was focused on preconditioning of donor material. Possible basic principles, responsible for a successful propagation of adult donor trees, are discussed.
4293738|In vitro regeneration of plants via somatic embryogenesis through cell suspension culture was achieved in horsegram. Embryogenic calluses were induced on leaf segments on solid Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with
4293412|The carbohydrate status of developing seeds of Picea abies was examined in order to provide a frame of reference for the evaluation of changes in carbohydrate content in maturing somatic embryos of the same species. Samples were taken at weekly intervals from 12 May 1998 (estimated time of pollination) until 20 October 1998. The total non-structural carbohydrate content was high (
41432838|Marigold (Tagetes erecta) flowers are primarily used in industry for their high pigment content. Flower color development implies that chloroplast-chromoplast transition is associated with carotenoid biosynthesis. We report the recovery of undifferentiated pigmented marigold cells, various callus tissues, and their analysis by transmission electron microscopy in order to observe accumulating pigment and development of subcellular structures. Callus was generated from leaf expiants and after several rounds of recurrent selection. Green-, yellow-, and brown-colored callus were obtained that showed distinct carotenoid profiles. For green material, violaxanthin, lutein, zeaxanthin, and -carotene were produced, while yellow callus generated mainly lutein, as did the brown callus. Chloroplastchromoplast transition was followed by measuring plastid size and shape in undifferentiated marigold cells by digital image analysis. Cellular alterations were evident in brown callus.Chloroplasts were the main structure in green callus, while yellow callus clearly showed the formation of plastoglobules, structures that are correlated with chloroplast-chromoplast transition. The high number of plastoglobules observed in yellow callus is possibly directly related to pigment synthesis and accumulation.
4293348| An efficient plant regeneration protocol was successfully developed for basil (Ocimum basilicum L.). Explants from 1 mo. old seedlings yielded the highest frequency of 85% regeneration with an average of 5.1 shoots per explant. The regeneration protocol was performed on three basil varieties (Sweet Dani; methylcinnamate; Green Purple Ruffles). Callus and shoot induction was initiated on Murashige and Skoog basal medium supplemented with thidiazuron (16.8 M) for approximately 30 d. Shoot induction and development were achieved by refreshing the induction medium after 14 d. The most morphogenetically responsive explants were from the first fully expanded true leaves of greenhouse-grown basil seedlings. All developing bud tissue demonstrated temporary anthocyanin expression; however, anthocyanin expression in Green Purple Ruffles remained stable until maturity. Developing shoots were rooted in the dark on media with thidiazuron removed. Within 20 d, rooted plantlets were transferred and acclimatized under greenhouse conditions where they developed normal morphological characteristics. This is the first report of a successful in vitro regeneration system for basil through primary callus. 
4293892| A protocol has been developed for high-frequency shoot regeneration and plant establishment of Tylophora indica from petiole-derived callus. Optimal callus was developed from petiole explants on Murashige and Skoog basal medium supplemented with 10 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid +2.5 M thidiazuron (TDZ). Adventitious shoot induction was achieved from the surface of the callus after transferring onto shoot induction medium. The highest rate (90%) of shoot multiplication was achieved on MS medium containing 2.5 M TDZ. Individual elongated shoots were rooted best on half-strength MS medium containing 0.5 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). When the basal cut ends of the in vitro-regenerated shoots were dipped in 150 M IBA for 30 min followed by transplantation in plastic pots containing sterile vermiculite, a mean of 4.1 roots per shoot developed. The in vitro-raised plantlets with well-developed shoot and roots were successfully established in earthen pots containing garden soil and grown in a greenhouse with 100% survival. Four months after transfer to pots, the performance of in vitro-propagated plants of T. indica was evaluated on the basis of selected physiological parameters and compared with ex vitro plants of the same age. 
20065028|An efficient and rapid in vitro method was developed for regeneration of Phalaenopsis using leaf segments derived in vitro from flower stalk nodes. Leaf segments of four cultivars Tinny Sunshine 'Annie', 'Taisuco Hatarot', Teipei Gold 'Golden Star', Tinny Galaxy 'Annie' cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with N-benzyladenine (BA; 88.8 M) and -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA; 5.4 M) produced an average of 10-13 protocorm-like bodies (PLBs) after 12 wk. PLB proliferation was achieved on a modified Hyponex medium (
4293848| Germination of tamarind seeds in medium containing thidiazuron (TDZ) resulted in induction of nodular protrusions in and around the cotyledonary node meristem. The structures developed radially in well-defined circles and subsequently spread towards the cotyledonary bridge and also in the proximal part of the hypocotyl. The structures developed into shoots on transfer to medium devoid of growth regulators. Histological studies revealed that the protrusions initiated from the nodal meristem and extended to the non-meristematic region between the two meristems and also in the proximal part of the hypocotyl in seedlings germinated in 9.08 M TDZ. Newly formed cell layers and less-differentiated meristematic protrusions were also seen. With the increase in the distance from the meristem, the buds were less differentiated; in the proximal part of the hypocotyl only the multiple layers of meristematic cells were noted. With extension of the period of incubation, the TDZ-induced meristematic activity extended laterally in circles towards the neighboring region. The radial spread of the meristematic activity from the center of the nodal meristem was also evident at 18.16 M TDZ. From the pattern of the morphogenic development and the histological studies it may be hypothesized that in tamarind, TDZ influences the existing meristems specifically. Subsequently de novo organogenesis is triggered in the neighboring cells. 
20541055|Hyperhydricity is a physiological disorder frequently affecting shoots propagated in vitro. Since it negatively affects shoot multiplication vigor, and impedes the successful transfer of micropropagated plants to in vivo conditions, hyperhydricity is a major problem in plant tissue culture. In commercial plant micropropagation, there are reports of up to 60% of cultured shoots or plantlets which demonstrate hyperhydricity, which reflects the pervasiveness of this problem. The phenomenon has been correlated to water availability, microelements, and/or hormonal imbalance in the tissue culture. In this study, the ultrastructure and the characteristics of reactive oxygen species between hyperhydric and normal shoots of garlic were studied. We observed that in some cells of hyperhydric tissues, the intranuclear inclusion was separated, the mitochondrion was swollen and its intracristae had splits, the organelles were compressed against the cell wall, and the chloroplasts and intergranal thylakoids were also compressed. Additionally, the content of chlorophyll and soluble protein in hyperhydric shoots decreased significantly. For instance, chlorophyll a decreased 43.61%, chlorophyll b decreased 49.29%, chlorophyll a+b decreased 48.10%, and soluble protein dropped 47.36%. In contrast, the O generation rate and HO level increased 45.36% and 63.98%, respectively, obviously higher than the normal shoots. Lipoxygenase activity and malondialdehyde content in the hyperhydric shoots increased significantly, while the electrolyte leakage rose, indicating a serious membrane lipid peroxidatic reaction. Superoxide dismutase, peroxidase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and ascorbate peroxidase activities in hyperhydric tissue were all significantly higher than in normal leaf tissue. The antioxidant metabolism demostrated a close connection between hyperhydricity and reactivated oxygen species.
4293319|Cytokinins are essential hormones for plant growth and development. They are also of vital importance for in vitro manipulations of plant cells and tissues. The biological activities and chemistry of cytokinins are well defined but very little is known about their mode of action and it is only recently that cytokinin genes have been identified in plants. This review summarizes the current status of knowledge on cytokinin biosynthesis, metabolism and signal transduction, with an emphasis on genes encoding metabolic enzymes and putative receptors, and genes rapidly induced by cytokinins.
20064864|Habituation is one of the four neoplastic diseases of plants and occurs spontaneously in plant cell cultures. To date, and even if an epigenetic origin has been previously postulated, the fundamental concept that underlies this neoplastic state remains obscure. Recently, a permanent stress hypothesis has been proposed, using habituated nonorganogenic (HNO) sugarbeet cell line (Beta vulgaris L. altissima) as a model. According to this proposal, the low catalase and peroxidase activities were supposed to be responsible for HO accumulation. A supposed lipoxygenase activation would generate
4293740|Despite high commercial interest, the success of biotechnological applications in cotton (Gossypium hirsutum) has been limited due to difficulties in genetic transformation. Major problems have been genotype dependence and low frequency of somatic embryogenesis, making it difficult to regenerate plants from transgenic tissue. This study reports an increase in somatic embryogenesis efficiency and the induction of developmental synchrony in embryogenic callus cultures of cotton by a single cycle of myo-inositol depletion in liquid culture. Calluses were initiated on hypocotyl or cotyledon explants of cultivar Coker 312 by culturing these explants on callus-inducing solid medium [Murashige and Skoog salts plus vitamins of Gamborg's B
20461594|This study reports a method for high-frequency shoot organogenesis and plant establishment of Potentilla potaninii Wolf. Hypocotyl and cotyledon explants of P. potaninii were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with various concentrations of benzyladenine (BA) and -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) to induce adventitious shoot formation for micropropagation. The highest frequency of adventitious shoot regeneration was achieved from hypocotyl and cotyledon explants grown on MS medium supplemented with 5.0 mg l BA and 1.0 mg l NAA. The regenerated shoots rooted most efficiently on half-strength MS medium supplemented with 1.0 mg l NAA and 0.5 mg l indole-3-acetic acid or indole-3-butyric acid. The acclimatized plants with normal morphology and growth characters flowered and set seeds in the following year.
40663779|Conditions for induction of embryognie nodules and subsequent somatic embryogenesis in the tropical hardwood Cedrela odorata are described. Embryo expiants from ungerminated mature seeds were placed on Driver and Kuniyuki Walnut (DKW) medium using 0.8% w/v agar as the gelling agent, plus benzyladenine (BA) and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Various phytohormone combinations were tested, from which 5 M BA + 50 M 2,4-D were chosen as the standard regime based on a maximum frequency of embryognie nodule occurrence of 20-25% on this medium. Nodules, when excised from the cotyledons and placed on growth-regulator-free medium, produced both plantlets and secondary embryognie tissue. With extended culture on growth-regulator-free DKW medium, plantlets developed roots and could be transplanted into pots for further growth. The frequency of nodule initiation could be improved by either orienting the cotyledon expiants with their lower (abaxial) surface in contact with the medium or imposing a pre-excision period of heat shock. The treatments together were additive. An optimum heat-shock temperature (47  C) and range of exposure times (8-12 h) were defined.
20461697|A procedure for the micropropagation of Chimonanthus praecox (L) Link, wintersweet, has been developed using buds from adult trees excised in spring. Shoot cultures established on Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium supplemented with 0.5 mg l 6-benzyladenine (BAP) and 0.1 mg l indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) were difficult to maintain in vitro through extended periods of time due to browning of the medium, shoot and leaf necrosis, and hyperhydricity. A treatment combining the use of 0.1% w/v activated charcoal and addition of a double phase agar-solidified/liquid medium improved propagation, enabling a successful in vitro propagation scheme to be developed. Optimal shoot multiplication occurred on medium containing 0.5 mg l BAP, and rooting on medium with 2.0 mg l IBA for 7 d, followed by transfer to hormone-free medium. Rooted plantlets were easily acclimated in a glasshouse and replanted and cultured outdoors.
20064841|Nodes of Medicago sativa, Lotus corniculatus, Lotus tenuis, and Lotus pedunculatus were cultured on MS basal media with different growth regulators. In M. sativa each node produced one shoot and the apical dominance was unaffected by high levels of cytokinins, and subsequent cycles of culture. Shoot development was stimulated by the presence of N-isopentenyl-adenine in the culture medium and was dependent on the genotype of the explant. Shoot development was not affected by the original position of the node on the plant nor by the plant age. Shoots rooted in MS medium gelled with starch and containing
20461539|Bactris major and Desmoncus orthacanthos are native palms from the Yucatan Peninsula which could be used as substitutes for rattan. When their seeds were germinated in vivo and in vitro they proved to be highly recalcitrant. Therefore, the culture of isolated embryos was studied as an alternative means of producing planting material for nurseries. It was found that the in vitro germination of the isolated embryos was gradually reduced by storage, falling to zero by 5 wk. However, isolated embryos from freshly collected seeds germinated at  100% frequency. The presence of the endosperm, whether still attached to the embryos or separated from them but in direct contact with the nutrient medium, greatly reduced germination in both species. High concentrations of abscisic acid (ABA, 100 M) only slightly diminished it, suggesting a different cause for the observed endosperm-induced inhibition. This embryo rescue method permits the production of sufficient plants for in vitro micropropagation and the establishment of experimental plots to evaluate the full potential of these materials.
20171615| The insecticidal effectiveness of a -endotoxin Cry protein from Bacillus thuringiensis in non-regenerable callus of a commercial Gossypium hirsutum L. variety was investigated. Two transgenic callus types were generated. The first callus type harbored the cry1A(c) gene and the hygromycin B phosphotransferase hpt selectable marker gene. The second callus type, the transgenic control, carried the marker genes -glucuronidase (GUS) and hpt. Growth and survival rates of three major cotton moth species, Pectinophora gossypiella, Helicoverpa armigera, and Spodoptera littoralis, were examined with aseptic neonates reared on callus. Normal larval development occurred in all species supplied with non-transgenic callus, but insects died, or their growth was severely restricted, when reared on transgenic callus harvested from hygromycin B-supplemented medium. Development of larvae on transgenic control and on non-transgenic callus became very much alike after the transgenic control tissue had been subcultured on a hygromycin B-free medium for about 100 d prior to the insect-callus bioassay. Accordingly, for detection of Bt toxin activity without the interference of the influence of hygromycin B on insects, cry1A(c) callus was infested with insects after it had been propagated for more than 100 d on a medium free of the antibiotic. Under these experimental conditions all P. gossypiella and H. armigera, and most S. littoralis neonates died, and the growth (e.g., weight increment) of S. littoralis survivors was markedly impeded by cry1A(c) callus. Three new findings emerge from this study: first, P. gossypiella, a pest feeding in the field on bolls only, can be grown in vitro on cotton callus; second, in a host which is recalcitrant in terms of plant regeneration, the biological potency of an insect-detrimental transgene can nevertheless be evaluated by generating a transgenic host callus and conducting in vitro transgenic callus-insect assays; and third, our results suggest that hygromycin B is toxic to lepidopteran larvae. 
20064936|Plants were obtained via organogenesis from hypocotyl explants of Pithecellobium saman (Jacq.) Benth. (raintree) on Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium supplemented with N-benzyladenine (BA). Adventitious bud induction was affected by mineral salts and benzyladenine concentrations, explant age, position of explant on the medium, and BA exposure time. The best results were obtained with explants cultured on half-strength MS medium containing 26.6 M BA, with explants of 5 and 10 d after germination placed horizontally and a 7 d-exposure period to BA. The proximal and intermediate section of hypocotyls showed the highest organogenic response. Bud development and shoot elongation was promoted by increased concentrations of activated charcoal in the culture medium. Gibberellic acid had no effect on shoot development. Rooting percentages decreased when shoots were exposed for more than 24 h to indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). Maximum rooting was obtained with 369.0 M IBA. The aerial and root systems of greenhouse plantlets were similar to those of seedlings.
4292944|This research was designed to: a) characterize the normal pH changes that occur when cotton cell are grown in culture; b) determine if cotton cells can regulate the pH of their extracellular medium; and c) explore the effects of starting pH on cellular differentiation in culture, including formation of somatic embryos. When an aliquot of cotton cell suspension culture (Gossypium hirsutum L. cv Coker 312) was inoculated into fresh Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium at pH 4.5, the pH stabilized near 5.5 during the log phase of growth and then rose to pH 7.25. Cotton cells actively adjust medium with initial pH between 3 and 8 to near pH 5.5 in the early culture period. By acid/base titration, it has been shown that living cotton cells increase the buffer capacity of water and MS medium. Therefore, the metabolic activity of living cells accounts for the adjustment and stabilization of pH during the log phase of growth. The starting pH of the culture medium affects longterm viability, growth, and differentiation of the cells; pH 3 to 5 is best for cell viability, pH 3 to 4 enhances cell elongation; and pH 4, 7, or 8 stimulates somatic embryogenesis. Cultured cotton cells and the pH of their extracellular medium are in a complex, interactive relationship.
4293644|Axillary and terminal buds from suckers of Ananas comosus cv. Phuket were established on Murashige and Tucker-based (MT) medium with
29736199|In vitro rooting of oil palm shoots derived from somatic embryos was achieved through a single-phase protocol in which three shoots are cultured in the same culture tube on an -naphtaleacetic acid-enriched culture medium. Rooting performance was dependent on both the genetic origin and initial size of the shoot explants. All shoots from a given tube showed a tendency to give roots of the same type, independent of the original size of the explant. Whatever the clonal line, longer-size shoots (L-type: >9 cm) showed higher rooting rates than medium-size (M-type: 7-9 cm) and short-size ones (S-type: 5-7 cm). When groups of three shoots from the same clonal line were rooted together in the same culture tube, the combination of plant size within the group impacted overall quality of rooting. Within triplets of shoots containing more than one short individual, the probability of obtaining adequate rooting was low. Similarly, when more than one long shoot was included in the triplet rooting, quality was also poor. By avoiding such combinations, the rate of well-rooted plantlets increased by 25%, with a maximum of 66% when triplets of S/M/L combination were used. Smaller shoots, which usually showed poor rooting performance, were therefore found to benefit from the presence of their neighbors. This interaction between the sizes of individuals in a given tube was found to be associated with a within-tube correlation effect, a phenomenon previously described as "event coupling," which was estimated using a distorted binomial-type distribution of probabilities. The resulting calculation of a coupling factor (average r=0.60) explains the behavior of shoots within the same culture tube and their average rooting performance. Modeling of the interactions that occurred during in vitro rooting is described here and is recommended for improvement of this critical step in micropropagation.
4293123| Transgenic spinach (Spinacia oleracea L.) plants expressing cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) coat protein genes were regenerated. Leaf and hypocotyl expiants from two spinach cultivars, 'Fall Green' and 'High Pack,' were transformed with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA 4404 carrying the binary vector pBI121 in which the -glucuronidase (GUS) gene was replaced with the coat protein gene of CMV isolate SP103 or SP104. Calluses were induced from both cultivars at rates of 10-27% on MS selective medium containing 86 M kanamycin, 237 M carbenicillin and 209 M cefotaxime. After 12 wk (three transfers), putatively transformed calluses were transferred to MS medium without kanamycin to promote callus proliferation. Shoots were regenerated at the rates of 23-29% for 'High Pack' and less than 0.5% for 'Fall Green'. Approximately 80% of the regenerated shoots from both cultivars were subsequently induced to establish whole plants. Regenerated plants were screened for transgene incorporation using a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method using the same primer pair originally used to amplify the CMV coat protein genes for insertion into pBI121. Based on the PCR screening, approximately 12% of the regenerated spinach plants contained a CMV coat protein gene. Southern blot analysis confirmed the presence of viral coat protein genes in the plant genomes. Western blot analysis indicated that the CMV coat protein genes were expressed in transgenic spinach plants. 
20064989|The purpose of this study was to develop in vitro techniques for conserving wild and endemic species of Ceropegia by mass multiplication for subsequent reintroduction in their natural habitat. Micropropagation involving a combination of axillary bud culture, shoot multiplication, somatic embryogenesis and in vitro tuber formation for Ceropegia jainii, a rare plant of the Indian sub continent, C. bulbosa var. bulbosa and C. bulbosa var. lushii, common species, was developed. Nodal explants from all species were cultured on 0.5 MS medium with 8.8 M (
20461688|Epicotyl, petiole, and cotyledon explants derived from 14-d-old seedlings of Albizia odoratissima were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with different concentrations of either 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP) solely or in combination with 0.5 M naphthalene-3-acetic acid (NAA). The percentage of shoot regeneration and the number of shoots regenerated varied significantly depending on the type of explants used, the concentration of plant growth regulators, and the orientation of explants on the culture medium. The best response in terms of the percentage of shoot regeneration was obtained from epicotyls cultured horizontally on MS medium supplemented with 5 M BAP, whereas the highest number of shoots per responding explant was recorded on medium containing 2.5 M BAP and 0.5 M NAA. Successful rooting was achieved by placing the microshoots onto MS medium containing 25 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) for 24 h first, then transferring to the same medium without IBA. Of the various substrates tested, vermiculite was the best for plant acclimatization, as 75% of the plants survived and became established.
23255670|Torreya taxifolia Arn., an ancient evergreen tree, is on the brink of extinction from attack by a fungal disease, recently reported to be caused by a novel isolate of Fusarium. We report the development of a somatic embryogenesis tissue culture system that can be used for cryogenic storage of T. taxifolia cultures and subsequent plant regeneration. Initiation of embryogenic tissue from immature zygotic embryos occurred on a conifer tissue culture medium containing 0.25 % activated charcoal, 43.8 mM maltose, 0.5 mM 2,4-dichlorophenoxacetic acid, 0.2 mM 6-benzylaminopurine, 0.2 mM kinetin, 0.1 M brassinolide, 3.8 M abscisic acid, 20.5 M biotin, 1.13 M folic acid, 1.28 mM 2(n-morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid and 0.69 mM pyruvic acid. Embryo induction ranged from 60 to 100 % across six seed sources. Somatic embryo development occurred on a medium containing 43.8 mM maltose, 1 % activated charcoal, 37.8 M abscisic acid, 20.5 M biotin, 0.1 M brassinolide, 0.205 mM folic acid, 1.28 mM 2(n-morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid and 0.69 mM pyruvic acid. Germination of somatic embryos ranged from 64 to 82 %. Embryogenic tissue cultures from 30 genotypes representing seed from six mother trees were cryopreserved, and culture recovery was demonstrated after freezing. In contrast to many other coniferous tree seeds, the measured water potential (MPa) of T. taxifolia megagametophyte tissue rose greatly during seed after-ripening. Duplication of this rise in vitro allowed development of somatic embryos to the cotyledonary stage.
40793226|The effects of culture conditions on the asymbiotic germination of mature seeds of Calanthe tricarinata Lindl., an endangered terrestrial cool-climate orchid, were examined. Specifically, conditions such as illumination, temperature, and the addition of plant growth regulators to the medium were studied. Mature seeds were harvested from plants that had been collected in Toyama Prefecture, Japan, and maintained at the Botanic Gardens of Toyama. Solidified "New Dogashima" medium was used as the basal medium, and it was supplemented with 6-benzyladenopurine (BA) or -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA). White light at 40mol m s , with a 16-h photoperiod, inhibited the germination of seeds by 53-80%, as compared to dark controls in genotypes examined. The optimal temperature for the germination of seeds in darkness was 20 C and the germination frequency reached 60%, whereas it was only 28% at 25 C. While both NAA and BA stimulated germination, BA was more effective than NAA. After storage for 18 mo at 5 C, seeds incubated on medium that contained 0.2 mg 1 BA germinated at a frequency of 36%, which was twice that of seeds grown without any plant growth regulators. The frequency of subsequent germination decreased during storage of seeds at 5 C for approximately 2 yr, dropping from 61% to 13%. The protocorms obtained in this study were developed to plantlets readily after transferring to fresh 1/2 MS medium without any plant growth regulators. They were successfully acclimatized in green house after two to three subcultures in vitro. The significant role of a reproducible protocol for the germination of mature seeds is discussed in terms of the ex situ conservation of endangered orchid species.
29736195|Wheat and triticale plants were transformed by bombardment of isolated scutella with a genetic construct consisting of the two anthocyanin biosynthesis regulatory genes, C1 and Bperu, each under the control of the Ltp1 embryo-specific promoter. Transgenic plants were obtained in the absence of selective pressure and selectable marker gene at a transformation frequency of 0.93% and 1.55% in triticale and wheat, respectively. Initial screening of T lines was performed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and further confirmation of PCR positives was done using real-time PCR and by phenotypic observation. In this study, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) was developed to determine the transgene copy number in transgenic wheat and triticale. A conserved wheat housekeeping gene, puroindoline-b, was used as an internal control to calculate the transgene copy number in wheat and the SYBR green detection method with a standard curve, constructed on the basis of serially diluted plasmid, was used to calculate the transgene copy in triticale. Estimated transgene copies varied from 3 to 8 in wheat and 4 to 7 in triticale lines. The presence of anthocyanin regulatory genes, promoter, and termination sequences was detected in six wheat lines and four triticale lines. However, anthocyanin-pigmented embryos were only observed visually in mature T seeds of two transgenic wheat lines and a single triticale line. Multisite insertion and reorganization of transgenes was likely the explanation for the failure of expression for the anthocyanin genes in the remaining wheat and triticale transgenic lines.
4293286| Experiments were conducted to study the influence of osmotic pretreatment and inoculum (callus) age on the initiation and induction of somatic embryogenesis from suspension cultures of 'Alamo' switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.). Embryogenic 10-, 20-, or 30-d-old calluses (hereafter referred to as inocula), produced from in vitro-cultured inflorescences, were used as explants to initiate the suspensions. Inocula were cultured for 30 h on MS solid medium containing 0.1, 0.2 or 0.3 M each of sorbitol and mannitol as an osmotic pretreatment. They were then transferred to liquid MS medium with 5 M 6-benzylaminopurine and 9 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and cultured for 28 d in 2-ml Multiwell plates. Individual multiwell contents were transferred to 125-ml Erlenmeyer flasks containing 20 ml of the above liquid medium and cultured for an additional 2 wk. Cultures initiated from the 10-d-old inoculum produced a higher embryogenic response than those initiated from 20- or 30-d-old inocula. Cultures initiated with 30-d-old inocula produced nonembryogenic clusters and the number of embryogenie cells was low. More embryos and a higher regeneration frequency were produced by 0.3 M than by 0.1 or 0.2 M of each of the osmostica. 
20461566|Shoot cultures of three Hibiscus moscheutos (L.) cultivars were infested with micro-arthropods (mites). Nodal segments (1 cm long) were excised from these cultures and encapsulated in a sodium alginate gelled Driver and Kuniyuki Walnut DKW medium containing 10, 50, or 100 mg l acephate (insecticide) or 10 mg l acephate plus 0, 50, or 100 mg l benomyl (fungicide), then placed in refrigerated (5C) darkness for 4 wk. Acephate was tested alone if visible fungus was not touching the shoot masses and benomyl was tested if fungus was in contact with the proliferating shoots. Cold-stored encapsulated nodes were then placed on DKW medium with 0.1 M thidiazuron for 6 wk for subsequent shoot development. The presence of acephate in the encapsulation medium completely eradicated or killed the mites, with 38-69% of cultures fungus-free; 12% of the fungal-contaminated nodes encapsulated with 100 mg l benomyl were fungus-free.
20461618|Cynara cardunculus var. cardunculus L., also known as cardoon, is a perennial weed naturalized in the Pampas region of Argentina. A quantification of cynarine and chlorogenic acid of callus and leaves from cardoon was performed by means of micellar electrokinetic capillary chromatography, showing that the content of cynarine is higher in calluses than in vivo leaves. The scavenging effect of the callus extract, determined by the thiobarbituric acid method, demonstrated its significant antioxidant capacity. The obtained results revealed that in vitro tissue culture is an excellent tool for producing cynarine for therapeutical purposes.
4293309|The influence of light quality on the proliferation of embryogenic tissue of three genotypes of Norway spruce (Picea abies [L.] Karst), with different capacities for mature somatic embryo production, was studied. The proliferating tissues were subjected to light from commercially available light sources: Philips TLD Warm White 36W/29, Philips TLD Blue 18W/18, Philips TLD Red 36W/15, Osram L Fluora 36W/77 and Sylvania Far Red 7080, for 18 h a day with the photon flux (PAR) at
4293239|In this study different aspects of the in vitro introduction and establishment of apricot cultivars were investigated through meristem tip culture. The best time to introduce the meristems of 'Canino' was when buds were starting to swell. Various plant growth regulators were used at different concentrations on four distinct apricot cultivars to promote the development of the meristems to shoots which could then be micropropagated. Very diverse results were obtained depending on the genotype. In general, meristems did not survive without
4293873|The problem of environmental nitrogen enrichment is most likely to be solved by reducing the inputs of synthetic nitrogen fertilizers through the creation of cereals that, like legumes, are able to fix nitrogen. In legumes, rhizobia present intracellularly in vesicles in the cytoplasm of nodule cells fix nitrogen endosymbiotically. Rhizobia within these membrane-bounded compartments are supplied with energy from plant photosynthates and, in return, the bacteria provide the plant with biologically fixed nitrogen. Recently, we have demonstrated, using novel inoculation conditions with very low numbers of bacteria, that cells of the root meristems of maize, rice, wheat, and other major non-legume crops can be colonized intracellularly by the non-rhizobial, non-nodulating, nitrogen-fixing bacterium, Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus, that occurs naturally in sugarcane. G. diazotrophicus expressing nitrogen-fixing genes is present in membrane-bounded compartments in the cytoplasm of cells of the root meristems of the target cereals and non-legume species, similar to the intracellular colonization of legume root nodule cells by rhizobia. In order to obtain an indication of the likelihood of adequate growth and yield of maize, for example, with reduced inputs of synthetic nitrogen fertilizers, we are determining the extent to which nitrogen fixation is correlated with systemic intracellular colonization by G. diazotrophicus, with minimal or zero inputs of synthetic nitrogen fertilizer.
4293818| Plants of European chestnut (Castanea sativa) have been consistently recovered from cryopreserved in vitro-grown shoot apices by using the vitrification procedure. Factors found to influence the success of cryopreservation include the source of the shoot tips (terminal buds or axillary buds), their size, the duration of exposure to the cryoprotectant solution, and the composition of the post-cryostorage recovery medium. The most efficient protocol for shoot regrowth employed 0.5-1.0 mm shoot tips isolated from 1 cm-long terminal buds that had been excised from 3-5-wk shoot cultures and cold hardened at 4C for 2wk. The isolated shoot tips were precultured for 2d at 4C on solidified Gresshoff and Doy medium (GD) supplemented with 0.2 M sucrose, and were then treated for 20 min at room temperature with a loading solution (2 M glycerol + 0.4 M sucrose) and for 120 min at 0C with a modified PVS2 solution before rapid immersion in liquid nitrogen (LN). After 1 d in LN, rapid rewarming and unloading in 1.2 M sucrose solution for 20 min, the shoot tips were plated on recovery medium consisting of GD supplemented with 2.2 M benzyladenine, 2.9 M 3-indoleacetic acid, and 0.9 M zeatin. This protocol achieved 38-54% shoot recovery rates among five chestnut clones (three of juvenile origin and two of mature origin), and in all cases plant regeneration was also obtained. 
20171619|Vessel closure configurations exert direct and indirect control over factors pertaining to the physical boundaries of the microenvironment, and induce a typical phenotype in in vitro plant production. Upon modification of the in vitro environment, carnation explants showed a gradation of their ultrastructural characteristics from hyperhydric to normal. A higher degree of development was observed in plants from vessels with higher ventilation compared to ones from vessels with low ventilation rates. The cell walls of epidermal cells from both normal and hyperhydric plants grown in non-ventilated vessels were less developed than those from plants grown in ventilated vessels. Cytoplasm of normal plants was dense and generally located in parietal areas. The cytoplasm was even more dense in plants grown in ventilated vessels and acclimated. The degree of thylakoid stacking and distribution were affected by ventilation conditions, being poorly developed with low ventilation. Ultrastructurally, stomata from in vitro plants are ready to carry out their task, although there are significant differences in guard cell size and vacuolar area between acclimated and in vitro plants.
20461590|This study reports an efficient and direct shoot bud differentiation and multiple shoot induction from nodal segments of underground stoloniferous rhizomes of Houttuynia cordata Thunb. The frequency of shoot bud regeneration was influenced by the type of cytokinin and concentrations. Among the various concentrations used, benzylaminopurine (BAP, 17.74 M) or kinetin (Kn, 18.58 M) was found to be most effective for rapid and maximum shoot bud differentiation. The number of shoots per explant was higher (20.00  2.61) on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with Kn (18.58 M) compared to BAP and 6-,-(dimethyl-allylamino)-purine (2iP) during initial 40-d-old culture. Subsequent shoot differentiation and multiplication were achieved in MS medium containing 9.29 M Kn and 15% (v/v) coconut milk. Elongation and growth of multiple shoots were also obtained on MS medium containing either 2.32 M Kn or 2.46 M 2iP alone. The rate of shoot multiplication during subcultures declined with an increase in the size of proliferating shoot cluster. Reducing shoot cluster size to three to four shoots and subculturing together in shoot multiplication medium resulted in a better shoot multiplication and growth, which could be maintained for 2 yr. The elongated shoots (&gt;20 mm) were successfully rooted on MS medium supplemented with 19.60 M indole-3-butyric acid. Regenerated plants were successfully established in soil and were found to be healthy and uniform. The protocol reported in this study can be used for conservation and utilization of elite clone of H. cordata.
4293152|A plant regeneration system applicable to 17 cowpea genotypes was developed. Cotyledons were initiated on 1/3 MS medium containing 15 to 35 mg
4293490|Border cells from Artemisia annua were examined from hairy roots grown in shake flasks, culture plates, a bubble column reactor, and a nutrient mist (aeroponic) reactor. When well-hydrated roots were subjected to shear, border cells were first released as an agglomerate and did not disperse for several hours. Staining with neutral red and fluorescein diacetate (FDA) showed that both agglomerates and dispersed cells were alive. It was determined that FDA is cleaved by pectin methylesterase (PME) and that PME may not be particularly active in the released agglomerates until the border cells disperse. Untransformed roots isolated from A. annua plants showed no border cell agglomerate formation and border cells readily dispersed. These results suggest that our hairy root clone is deficient in border cell release perhaps resulting from the transformation process.
40793154|Efficient Agrobacterium tumefaciens -mediated transformation and a higher recovery of transformed plants of cucumber cv. Poinsett 76 were achieved via direct organognesis from cotyledon expiants. Stable transformants were obtained by inoculating expiants with A. tumefaciens strains EHA105 or LBA4404, both harboring the binary vector pME508, which contains the neomycin phosphotransferase II (nptII) and phosphinothricin resistance genes (bar) conferring resistance to kanamycin and PPT, respectively, as selectable markers and the sgfp-tyg gene for the green fluorescent protem (GFP) as a visual marker driven by the constitutive CaMV35S promoter in the presence of acetosyringone (50 M). Transformed shoots were obtained on MS Murashige and Skoog (Plant Physiol. 15: 473-497, 1962) medium supplemented with 1 mg L benzyladenine (BA), 20 mg L L-glutamine and 2 mg L phosphinothricin (PPT) or 100 mg L kanamyein. The regenerated shoots were examined in vivo using a hand-held long wave UV lamp for GFP expression. The GFP screening helped identify escapes and chimeric shoots at regular intervals to increase the growth of transformed shoots on cotyledon expiants. Elongation and rooting of putative transformants were achieved on PPT (2 mg L) containing MS media with 0.5 mg L gibberellic acid (GA) and 0.6 mg L indole butyric acid (IBA), respectively. PCR and Southern analyses confirmed the integration of the sgfp gene into the genome of T and the progenies. T segregation of transgenic progeny exhibited Mendelian inheritance of the transgene. The use of EHA105 resulted in 21% transformation efficiency compared to 8.5% when LBA4404 was used. This higher rate was greatly facilitated by PPT selection coupled with effective screening of transformants for GFP expression, thus making the protocol highly useful for the recovery of a higher number of transgenic cucumber plants.
4293240|Micropropagated strawberry plants (Fragaria x ananassa L.) grown on 5  M and
4293077| The endangered Phebalium equestre D. A. Cooke and the rare Phebalium hillebrandii J. H. Willis were propagated in vitro using shoot tips and nodal segments as explants. For each species, shoot proliferation was initiated on de Fossard MZZM (Medium levels of minerals, Zero auxins, Zero cytokinins and Medium levels of sucrose, growth factors, and amino acids) medium supplemented with 1 M benzyladenine. Excised P. equestre shoots initiated roots when cultured on MZZM medium containing 60 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, while P. hillebrandii shoots required LZZL (Low levels of minerals, Zero auxins, Zero cytokinins and Low levels of sucrose, growth factors, and amino acids) medium containing 10 M 2,4-D for maximal root initiation. Both species required transfer to MZZM medium without growth regulators after 2 wk to allow root initials to develop and grow. Plantlets were successfully transferred to soil with 80% survival after 2 mo. 
4293287| An efficient regeneration system was developed by culturing immature cotyledons and embryo axes of Arachis hypogaea L. cv. Georgia Green on Murashige and Skoog basal medium (MS) supplemented with various concentrations of thidiazuron (TDZ; 1, 5, 10, and 15 M). Highly morphogenic callus was produced from 100% of the explants comprising the cotyledon with attached embryo axis when cultured in the dark on 10 M TDZ. Upon excision and continued culture in the dark on 10 M TDZ, morphogenic callus grew repetitively during monthly subcultures and retained its regeneration potential. For organogenesis, a gradual reduction in TDZ concentration and exposure to light were necessary before transfer to MS basal medium. Inclusion of indole-3-butyric acid in liquid MS medium favored rooting of recovered shoots. A distinct feature of this investigation is the induction of highly morphogenic callus by TDZ and regeneration of morphologically normal, fertile peanut plants after 8 months of callus subculture. 
20461695|The role of cytokinins in the differentiation of the photosynthetic apparatus in micropropagated plants and their effect on the plant's ability to transition from a heterotrophic to an autotrophic condition during acclimatization was investigated. Annona glabra L. shoots were cultured on woody plant medium supplemented with sucrose and different cytokinins to evaluate leaf tissue for chloroplast development, chloroplast numbers, photosynthetic pigmentation, total photosynthetic potential, and soluble sugar content. Plants were transferred to the rooting medium in the presence or absence of sucrose and then acclimatized. Kinetin and benzyladenine (BAP) stimulated chloroplast differentiation. Inclusion of zeatin in the medium induced the formation of greater numbers of chloroplasts in the leaves, while plants cultivated in the presence of only kinetin and BAP demonstrated greater chlorophyll a and carotenoid content. The use of kinetin and BAP during in vitro culture promoted accumulation of dry matter during the acclimatization phase, especially in plants rooted under autotrophic conditions (without sucrose). Kinetin and BAP promoted development of more leaf area and greater plant survival rates in plant acclimatization on both autotrophic and heterotrophic media. The inhibitory effects of thidiazuron on the differentiation of chloroplasts, accumulation of chlorophyll a, and photosynthetic potential were examined.
20171622| Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis L.), a popular native American medicinal plant, is currently listed as endangered or threatened in over one-third of the states in which it is listed. The objective of this study was to develop an in vitro culture protocol for Goldenseal. Excised embryos were grown on Gamborg's B-5 medium with 0, 1 or 10 M gibberellic acid (GA), and supplemented with 30 g l sucrose and 8 g l agar. Germinated embryos provided explants (leaf and root tissue) that were subsequently cultured on various media with combinations of naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and benzyladenine (BA). All NAA/BA combinations produced multiple shoots, roots, and callus. Leaf explants cultured on medium with 1:10 M NAA:BA and root explants on medium with 1:1 M NAA:BA could be successfully used for micropropagation. 
20064823|Suspension cultures of the NT1 line of Nicotiana tabacum L. were used as a model system to study plant biolistic transformation, because of their uniformity, rapid growth, and ease of handling. The -glucuronidase gene and the neomycin phosphotransferase genes were used to assay transient and stable transformation. Numerous factors were studied and optimized, such that the frequency of transformation was increased roughly 60-fold for transient transformants and 20-fold for stable transformants. Both biological parameters (the promoter used to drive gene expression, osmotic preconditioning and postbombardment handling of the cells) and physical parameters of the bombardment process (particle acceleration device and accelerator parameters) were tested. The factors that increased transformation rates the most were promoter strength, use of a helium-driven particle accelerator, and osmotic preconditioning of the cells.
40663770|The goal of the present work is to establish a protocol that allows the in vitro propagation of Evolvulus glomeratus and Evolvulus arizonicus.Nodal segments of both species were disinfected by the standard method (ethanol/NaClO/Tween 80) with and without the addition of an antibiotics-antifungal mixture to the Murashige and Skoog (MS) complete medium, growth regulator free. E. arizonicus did not survive to the in vitro culture starting procedure. To determine the nutritional requirements for E.glomeratus, the nodal segments were cultured on different dilutions of the MS macronutrients, being the complete MS the more adequate basal medium. Two types of expiants were isolated from E. glomeratus for their in vitro propagation: nodal segments and leaves. The first ones were cultured on complete MS medium supplemented with increasing benzylaminopurine (BA) concentration from 0 to 4.4 M, and the second ones onto the same basal medium but supplemented with the following naphthalene acetic acid and BA concentration (micromolars): 0.0, 1.3, 2.6, and 5.3 for naphthalene acetic acid and 0.0, 1.1, 2.2, and 4.4 for benzylaminopurine in all possible combinations. Under the conditions applied from the leaves, no shoot regenerations were detected. On the other hand, it was possible to recover an average close to four shoots per expiant when the nodal segments were cultured on a medium supplemented with 2.2 M benzylaminopurine. For the rooting and rustication step, in vitro and ex vitro (with Growing Mix # 2 and Perlite as substrate) strategies were tested. The best result was 91.6% efficiency of acclimated plants obtained with the ex vitro procedure using Perlite. The use of intersimple sequence repeat showed no differences among the tested regenerated plants under the applied experiment conditions.The protocol developed here is the starting point for the application of biotechnological techniques for both the massive propagation and the improvement of E. glomeratus and other related species.
40793222|A Nicotiana tabacum L. SR-1 leaf protoplast system was used to study the effects of dehydroascorbate and glutathione on cellular development. We found that dehydroascorbate is readily taken up by protoplasts and internally reduced to ascorbate. Concomitantly, cell division was inhibited and cell expansion stimulated. In this respect, dehydroascorbate counteracted auxin-mediated leaf protoplast development. In contrast to the effects of dehydroascorbate, glutathione-induced cell dedifferentiation, and this effect is similar to that mediated by high auxin concentrations. We conclude that dehydroascorbate and glutathione affect the auxin-mediated regulation of cellular development. Therefore, the biological role of these compounds extends beyond stress tolerance and defense.
42568875|Eugenia myrtifolia Sims, is an evergreen shrub, native to temperate and tropical rainforests of Australia, which is becoming an important containerized ornamental plant in the US and Mediterranean nursery industries. To satisfy the growing market demands for this new ornamental plant, development of an accelerated propagation method is required. The goal of this study was to investigate the in vitro regeneration potential of E. myrtifolia Sims, seeds at different stages of development, towards establishment of an in vitro multiplication system. Maximum regeneration of adventitious shoots was achieved from immature seeds cultured in the dark on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) macronutrients and full-strength MS micronutrients and vitamins (MS/2) medium supplemented with 2.5 M thidiazuron (TDZ). Induction of regeneration occurred after at least two successive subcultures on TDZ-enriched medium, followed by subcultures on expression medium (hormone free MS/2) or multiplication medium [MM; MS medium enriched with 4.4 M 6-benzyladenine and 0.05 M -naphthaleneacetic acid], where complete development of shoots occurred. The regenerated shoots were excised and transferred again onto MM for micropropagation, where a proliferation rate of 1:4 was achieved, and finally the shoots were transferred to a hormone-free MS medium for rooting. Following ex vitro transplanting, acclimatization over a period of 15 d was sufficient to establish greenhouse plants. The regenerated plants grown in the field for more than 2 yr showed the same phenotype as that of mother plants. The adventitious regeneration and micropropagation carried out in this study can be used for a large-scale propagation and genetic engineering of E. myrtifolia Sims.
25623026|Accumulation of proline, activities of peroxidase (POX), catalase (CAT), phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL) and malate dehydrogenase (MDH) were studied during different developmental stages of somatic embryos in chickpea. Callus cultures that did not form somatic embryos served as control. While increased levels of proline and POX activity were noticed in globular stages of embryos, CAT activity increased during early and late heart-shaped embryo formation indicating tissue-specific activation of these enzymes. The activity of PAL reached a peak during torpedo and cotyledonary stages of embryo development. On the other hand, MDH activity enhanced during the germination of somatic embryos inferring more requirement of energy during this stage. Electrophoretic (sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis) pattern of proteins revealed that ten bands are associated with non-embryogenic tissues, whereas 11 bands with globular, heart, torpedo and cotyledonary stages of embryo development and nine bands during the germination stage of embryos. Two extra stage-specific protein bands with molecular masses of 16 and 18 kDa appeared during globular, heart, torpedo, and cotyledonary stages. But, these bands disappeared during germination of embryos and are absent in non-embryogenic cultures. This study thus may help in the identification of proteins and the role of above enzymes during different developmental stages of somatic embryo induction and their maturation in a recalcitrant leguminous crop plant chickpea.
40663768|Daucus carota subsp.halophilus, is a wild crop relative of domestic carrot. It is an aromatic plant widely used in folk medicine due to recognized therapeutic properties of its essential oils. Experiments were carried out to evaluate the potential of in vitro propagation techniques to the conservation of this endemic and endangered taxon. The results showed that shoot tips of in vitro germinated seeds were able to proliferate in the presence of benzyladenine, with the best results being achieved using 4.4 M, both in the first and second cultures. Shoots rooted after being transferred to 1/2-Murashige and Skoog basal medium. The results indicated that the concentration of benzyladenine used during the multiplication phase did not interfere with the rate of root formation. The obtained plantlets were morphologically and anatomically identical to those obtained by seeds. Some of the in vitro produced shoots developed flowers that produced viable pollen. Plant regeneration was also achieved by somatic embryogenesis induction in cotyledons and root segments cultured in the presence of 4.5 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Somatic embryos converted into plantlets in a medium without growth regulators.Plants obtained either by shoot proliferation or somatic embryogenesis were acclimatized and are now growing at the Coimbra Botanical Garden. The first attempts to reintroduce these plants in the original habitat were successful. It can be concluded that the protocols developed are a useful approach to the conservation of this endemic species.
4293146|The induction of metabolic changes in suspension cultured cells of Catharanthus roseus upon elicitation has been investigated. Addition of a yeast glucan preparation to the growth medium resulted in induction of phenylalanine ammonia lyase. Phosphate uptake and metabolism of elicited cells was followed by
23016745|A plant regeneration protocol was developed for white ash (Fraxinus americana L.). Hypocotyls and cotyledons excised from embryos were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) plus thidiazuron (TDZ), and compared for organogenic potential. Sixty-six percent of hypocotyl segments and 10.4% of cotyledon segments produced adventitious shoots, with a mean number of adventitious shoots per explant of 3.50.9 and 2.51.5, respectively. The best regeneration medium (52% shoot formation, 47% shoot elongation) for hypocotyls was MS basal medium containing 22.2 M BA plus 0.5 M TDZ, producing a mean of 3.90.4 adventitious shoots. Adventitious shoots were established as proliferating shoot cultures following transfer to MS medium with Gamborg B5 vitamins supplemented with 10 M BA plus 10 M TDZ. For in vitro rooting, woody plant medium with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) at 0, 2.9, 5.7, or 8.6 M in combination with 4.9 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) was tested for a 5- or 10-d dark culture period, followed by culture under a 16-h photoperiod. The best rooting (78% to 81%) of in vitro shoots was obtained with a 5 d dark culture treatment on medium containing 2.9 or 5.7 M IAA plus 4.9 M IBA, with an average of 2.60.4 roots per shoot. Rooted plants were successfully acclimatized to the greenhouse. This adventitious shoot regeneration and rooting protocol will be used as the basis for experimental studies to produce transgenic white ash with resistance to the emerald ash borer.
4293932|Four auxins (2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid [2,4-D], indole-3-acetic acid [IAA], indole-3-butyric acid [IBA], and naphthaleneacetic acid [NAA]), and five cytokinins (
42568810|In order to address the need for production of parthenocarpic fruits, embryognie cultures of 'Brewster' ('Chen Tze') litchi derived from leaves of a mature tree were transformed with the PISTILLATA (PI) cDNA in antisense orientation through Agrobacterium-mediatQd transformation. In four independently transformed lines, transgene integration was confirmed by conventional and quantitative PCR. The four transgenic lines differed with respect to the relative copy number of the transgene and expression levels, and there was no correlation between the two traits. The expression of the litchi PI homolog was detected in transformed and nontransformed embryognie cultures. Although expression levels were low overall, they were significantly higher in wild-type plants compared to lines that were transformed. This result suggests that post-transcriptional silencing of the litchi PI homolog induced by an antisense oriented transgene could be a successful strategy; however, silencing in floral primordia to produce parthenocarpic fruits can only be confirmed in mature plants after several years.
4293683|Acclimatization of sugarcane plantlets (Saccharum spp. hybrid) var. C91-301, micropropagated in temporary immersion bioreactors, was studied. When in vitro plantlets were transferred to acclimatization conditions, photosynthesis increased only slightly during the first 7 d. After this period, the increase was constant with only a small decline after transfer to uncontrolled external conditions. Production of fresh and dry weights, number of leaves and roots, leaf area, stomatal density and chlorophyll contents were evaluated during the acclimatization period. From day 14 on, sugarcane plantlets exhibited low but positive photosynthesis due to the new formation of leaves and roots. The increase in light intensity and the gradual reduction of relative humidity during acclimatization did not constitute inhibitory factors, as can be interpreted from the increased photosynthetic activity until 21 d. Stomatal density and leaf area after 21 d were also increased, while the chlorophyll content declined.
4293608|The basic factor underlying the success of the tissue culture, large-scale micropropagation and genetic transformation of any plant species is regeneration. This has been achieved over the years through the use of various-sized explants ranging from protoplasts (small scale) to entire organs (large scale). Inherent problems underlie the use of either extreme, leading to both nonspecific morphogenic reactions in the latter, or to undesired necrosis in the former. This review investigates the importance of different aspects of a thin cell layer (TCL) explant, from its source to its size. TCLs, as a result of their size and origin, in combination with other controllable factors such as media and environmental conditions, have shown this system to be superior to the use of conventional explants. Numerous species that were previously unsuccessfully tissue-cultured have, with the use of TCL technology, resulted in their successful micropropagation and regeneration. These successes, based on the inherent qualities of the TCL explant - specific for a given species - are also examined.
23321153|Adventitious shoots were induced from the hypocotyl explants derived from 1215-d-old seedlings of Sesbania rostrata on Nitsch's medium (Nitsch, 1969) supplemented with 1 mg l1 (4.4 M) of N6-benzyladenine (BA). A maximum of 5.9  3.4 shoots per explant in 100% of cultures were obtained. The BA treatment for different time durations (1, 3, 5, 7, 10, 17, 21, or 30 d) exhibited significant variation in the caulogenic potential of the explants. BA treatment for 1017 d proved optimum for the response. Although at all concentrations of kinetin the explants developed multiple shoots, they were malformed. Sucrose at 3% exhibited the development of the maximum of 3.5  0.9 shoots per explant with an average shoot length of 4.7  3.9 cm. Among the different carbon sources, i.e., fructose, galactose, maltose, mannose, and sucrose at 3% (w/v), sucrose supported the best caulogenic response. The role of various other factors (viz. size, orientation of explant, and seedling age) on the caulogenic response of the hypocotyl explants of S. rostrata were also studied. The shoot development in all cases was accompanied by the development of moderate to profuse callus at the basal cut end of the explant. The in vitro-regenerated shoots produced roots when transferred to half-strength MS medium (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) supplemented with 3% sucrose and 1 mg l1 (4.9 M) indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). The developed plantlets were transferred to the field after an initial acclimatization period of 34 mo. Such transferred plants produced flowers and fruits in the field and exhibited the development of prominent and organized stem nodules.
4293166|The success of in vitro culture is related to several factors. Beside factors associated with the plant material or the medium composition, the physicochemical characteristics of gelled media can play an important role. In this paper, the latter aspect has been considered and the nature of agar powders has been investigated. Moreover, the process of gel formation for three different media and the availability of water and minerals for the corresponding gels have been studied. Analysis of agar powders showed that they can contain different amounts of impurities and the dialysis of these powders suggested that the impurities might be available to the tissues. Thermal analysis on the hygroscopic properties of the agar brands suggest the importance of these data to obtain comparable and reproducible gelled media. The study on the process of formation of gelled media indicates that there is a critical temperature
20065022|The important advances in coffee biotechnological techniques which have been made particularly during the last 10 yr could benefit the coffee breeder in practice and open new perspectives for the development of new varieties. The molecular phylogeny of Coffea species has been established using DNA sequence data. The molecular markers have revealed an extremely reduced genetic diversity in Coffea arabica L. in comparison to C. canephora. However, wild accessions collected in the Ethiopian highlands appeared to constitute a valuable gene reservoir. A complete genetic linkage map of C. canephora was reported and additional ones are being constructed, particularly on C. arabica. The integration of Molecular Assisted Selection in coffee breeding promises to drastically increase the efficiency of breeding programs. Economically important genes of the caffeine biosynthetic pathway or genes encoding for seed storage proteins have been isolated. The high performance already achieved in the in vitro propagation process by somatic embryogenesis offers the possibility to mass propagate superior hybrids in different countries of both C. arabica (selected F hybrids) and C. canephora (rootstock variety). Pilot productions by somatic embryogenesis currently permit preparation for commercial application. Somaclonal variation was observed. The percentage of the off-types can vary between 3 and 10% depending on the genotype. Seed cryopreservation enables a routine use for long-term conservation of coffee genetic resources. Transgenic plants have been obtained for the C. arabica and C. canephora cultivated species through Agrobacterium-mediated transformation which constitutes the technique now currently used to transfer directly genes in coffee plants.
20541005|Arbutus unedo L. is a species of strawberry tree, widely represented in the Mediterranean climates of southern Europe. Fruits are used to make jellies and a spirit called "medronheira." Shoot apices and nodal segments from epicormic and coppiced shoots of adult plants were used for plant propagation. Shoot apices from epicormic shoots, which were developed in a growth chamber, showed higher rates of in vitro establishment. The results also indicated that shoot apices are more effective for plant establishment than nodal segments, with rates of establishment significantly higher after 12 wk of culture. Of the three basal media used in combination with 9.0 M benzyladenine and 0.087 M sucrose, the FS medium with the micronutrients of the Murashige and Skoog medium gave the highest rates of multiplication, especially when the parameter analyzed was the number of clusters formed. When shoot apices from selected adult plants (AL01-AL06) were tested, the multiplication rate was not significantly different among the plants. However, in the conditions tested, shoots from the clones AL1, AL2, and AL3 showed better development, whereas shoots from AL4, AL5, and AL6 showed an impaired development and could not be rooted. Rooting was achieved in all the conditions tested, even in the absence of auxin. The inclusion of an auxin significantly increased root formation, whereas the addition of charcoal did not improve root formation. Rooted plantlets were acclimatized, and some of them are now in the field for further study.
4293731| Agitated layers of liquid medium were created on platform shakers in jars with 25-30 ml of medium (similar to conventional agar culture) rotating at 90 rpm. Thin films were scaled up in larger rectangular vessels on tilted shelves that periodically rock. In jars of liquid medium with a density of 180 explants per liter, multiplication rates of Hosta tokudama var. 'Newberry Gold' were optimal with a media sucrose concentration of 5% [both with and without 1 M benzyladenine (BA)]. Endogenous levels of soluble sugars were directly related to the concentration of sucrose in the medium. Three Hosta cultivars ('Striptease', 'Minuteman', and 'Stiletto') with plant densities of 40-200 explants per liter of medium were tested in larger, agitated, thin-film vessels in media with 5% sucrose and directly compared to agar medium. Higher rates of multiplication were observed in liquid than agar with the magnitude of the difference dependent on explant density. Pooled results for the three varieties with 200 explants per liter showed multiplication rates of 1.7 x and 2.3 x for agar and thin-film liquid, respectively. At 40 explants per liter, the multiplication rate was increased to 2.1 x for agar and 3.4 x for thin-film liquid. Sugar uptake was greater in liquid than agar and was greater in the higher densities, with the magnitude of the effect dependent on plant variety. Increased vessel size in the liquid, thin-film system and greater sugar uptake allowed more, larger plants to be harvested. Alocasia macrorrhizos was cultured in growth medium containing 1 M BA and 5% sucrose with plant densities in the range of 33-330 explants per liter. Dry weight and multiplication rate were greater in the liquid system than agar with the magnitude of the difference dependent on plant density. With approximately 165 explants per liter, and greater at the initiation of culture, plant density limited growth in both agar and liquid thin-film systems. In a multiplication medium (3 M BA and 3 M ancymidol) plant size was reduced by 50% and 60% (fresh weight) in liquid and agar, respectively. Initial density in the range of 165-330 explants per liter did not limit growth with the smaller plants in liquid or semisolid multiplication medium. Sugar uptake was greater in liquid than agar. While ample sugar was present in media for growth at any density on agar, sugar depletion was limiting growth at highest densities with the larger plants in liquid growth medium. In semisolid agar medium, sugar uptake by plants was more rapid than diffusion across the agar medium, resulting in non-equilibrium conditions following the culture cycle. In agitated, liquid medium, a greater transfer of sugars to plant tissue was related to accelerated growth. 
20540997|We isolated a DREB homologue gene, MtDREB2A, from Medicago truncatula. Its deduced protein contains an AP2 domain of 59 amino acids. The expression of MtDREB2A was significantly induced in roots by salt and drought treatments. Using megaprimer PCR, we deleted a Ser/Thr-rich coding region between residues 142 and 190, and transformed MtDREB2A to a constitutive form, namely, MtDREB2a. Yeast one-hybrid assay revealed that both MtDREB2A and MtDREB2a specifically bound to the dehydration-responsive element (DRE) and activated the expression of the reporter genes of HIS3 and LacZ. Analysis of transcription activities of the proteins in yeast indicated that MtDREB2a could activate the expression of reporter gene, whereas MtDREB2A could not. Overexpression of MtDREB2a in transgenic M. truncatula resulted in significant dwarfed seedling. These results suggested that MtDREB2A functioned specially in response to salt and drought stresses in M. truncatula and that deletion of the Ser/Thr-rich region between residues 142 and 190 activated the transcriptional activation ability of MtDREB2A.
40663772|Tuberisation was obtained in vitro on yam (Dioscorea cayenensis-Dioscorea rotundata complex). The effect of exogenous polyamines on tuber formation and development (length and weight of microtubers) was investigated and discussed in relation with changes in endogenous polyamines. Application of exogenous polyamines, inhibitors of their metabolism, and polyamines precursors in various concentrations positively affected microtuber formation by yam nodal cuttings and their further development. In control conditions, 3 wk are needed to obtain 100% of tuberisation. With low concentrations of putrescine (10 or 10 M), tuber formation occurred earlier Polyamine endogenous level and metabolism can be significantly affected by exogenous polyamines, but modifications of endogenous free polyamines could not be directly correlated to the tuber formation process. Increases in endogenous putrescine and auxins were observed in tubers showing a better development in the presence of putrescine. These results can be used for optimising in vitro conditions for mass production of larger microtubers of the D. cayenensis-D. rotundata complex.
23016606|Routine production of haploid plants has not been reported for any legume, despite the major role these species play in sustainable farming systems and human nutrition. It is within this context that we report a protocol for the induction of haploid development in chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) using isolated microspore culture. The cultivars "Rupali", "Narayen", and "Kimberley Large" were identified as responsive to isolated microspore culture. Flower bud length and microspore developmental stage were correlated for these cultivars. Depending on the cultivar, buds 2.853.5 mm in length contained uninucleate microspores. Microspores from donor plants grown in winter and spring were more responsive than those grown in summer. A cold treatment (4C) of between 24 and 48 h enhanced microspore response in winter- and spring-grown material but was not effective in summer-grown material. A medium developed by the authors was effective for microspore induction and early-stage embryo development. The addition of hormones to this medium was promotive of microspore induction in winter- and spring-grown material, but not in summer-grown material. The initial haploid division predominantly occurred via symmetrical division of the vegetative nucleus. Further research is under way to convert pro-embryos into plants.
25623008|The genetic modification of Coffea arabica fruits is an important tool for the investigation of physiological characteristics and functional validation of genes related to coffee bean quality traits. In this work, plants of C. arabica cultivar Catua Vermelho were successfully genetically modified by bombardment of embryogenic calli. Calli were obtained from 90% of the leaf explants cultivated in a callogenesis-inducing medium modified with 20 M 2, 4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). The resulting calli were bombarded with the pBI426 vector containing a uidA and nptII gene fusion that was driven by the double CaMV35s promoter. Kanamycin-selected embryos were positive for -glucuronidase (GUS) activity in histochemical assays and for target gene amplification by polymerase chain reaction. Integration of the nptII gene was confirmed by Southern blot and showed a low copy number (one to three) of insertions. Transformed plants showed normal development and settled fruits. GUS expression was assessed in the flower and fruit organs demonstrating the capacity of the double CaMV35s promoter to drive long-term stable expression of uidA in C. arabica fruit tissues. Moreover, we obtained a T progeny presenting 3:1 Mendelian segregation of the uidA gene. This investigation is the first to report exogenous gene expression in coffee fruits and transgenic inheritance in C. arabica plants.
42568802|Mineral nutrition in the media used for growth of in vitro plants is often difficult to optimize due to complex chemical interactions of required nutrients. The response of plant tissue to standard growth media varies widely due to the genetic diversity of the plant species studied. This study was designed as the initial step in determining the optimal mineral nutrient requirements for micropropagation of shoot tips from a collection of genetically diverse pear germplasm.Five mineral nutrient factors were defined from Murashige and Skoog salts: NHNO, KNO, mesos (CaCl2H0-KHPO-MgSO), micronutrients (B, Cu, Co, I, Mn, Mo, and Zn), and Fe-EDTA. Each factor was varied over a range of concentrations. Treatment combinations were selected using response surface methods. Five pears in three species (Pyrus communis 'Horner 51,' 'Old HomeFarmingdale 87,' 'Winter Nelis,' Pyrus dimorphophylla, and Pyrus ussuriensis 'Hang Pa Li') were grown on each treatment combination, responses were measured, and each response was analyzed by analysis of variance. The analyses resulted in the identification of the following factors with the single largest effects on plant response: shoot quality (mesos), leaf spotting/necrosis (mesos), leaf size (mesos), leaf color (mesos, NHNO, and KNO), shoot number (NHNO and Fe), nodes (NHNO and KNO), and shoot length (mesos and Fe). Factors with the largest effects (mesos and Fe) were similar among the genotypes. This approach was very successful for defining the appropriate types and concentrations of mineral nutrients for micropropagation of diverse pear genotypes.
4293676| The effects of the ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) and two inhibitors, silver thiosulfate (STS) and aminoethoxyvinylglycine (AVG), were tested in yellow passionfruit (Passiflora edulis f. flavicarpa Degener) axillary buds cultured in vitro. The organogenic responses were assessed by the number of buds per explant, mean leaf area per explant, and shoot length. ACC-supplemented medium significantly inhibited all evaluated responses at both concentrations tested. When ethylene action and biosynthesis were inhibited, a significant increase in the number of developed buds and average leaf area was observed. Accumulated ethylene and its accumulation rate were significantly greater at 10 M ACC, with a maximum production rate detected: at the 14th day and a decline at the 21st day. The results suggest beneficial effects of ethylene inhibitors on in vitro development of axillary buds and their reliability for use as an alternative approach to evaluate sensitivity of Passiflora species to ethylene. Even though shoot elongation did not differ from that of the control, the inhibition of the ethylene action and its biosynthesis by AVG and STS, respectively, significantly enhanced the number of buds per explant and leaf area. 
4293250|There are many Chihuahuan desert species that have potential as landscape plants for the arid communities of the southwestern United States [agarita, Berberis trifoliata Moric; Mexican buckeye, Ungnadia speciosa Endl.; Texas madrone, Arbutus xalapensis var. texana (Buckl.) A. Gray]. Within these plant populations, there are superior genotypes that offer even greater interest for the landscape. However, it is difficult to clonally propagate many of these species with conventional techniques, and the seed-derived populations often do not breed true. Therefore, selection of superior genotypes in wild populations coupled with clonal propagation through tissue culture may offer an attractive option. It is relatively easy to achieve disinfestation of explants from desert plants due to a general lack of natural surface contamination by fungi and bacteria, even though interference from numerous trichomes can impede good contact with disinfesting agents. However, there is only a narrow window of time that is ideal for explant collection, because of the brief, periodic flushes of growth that characterize this unusual plant group. There may be years when, due to the harsh environment, the amount of suitable explant material is severely limited. Phenolics and exudates are also problematic in this group of plants, and acclimatization of ex vitro plantlets to the harsh desert environment is a particular challenge. For these reasons, specific adaptations and modifications were necessary to achieve success with micropropagation of desert plant species such as Mexican redbud (Cercis canadensis var. mexicana L.).
4293800| Shoot tips and leaves excised from in vitro shoot cultures of Salvia nemorosa were evaluated for their organogenic capacity under in vitro conditions. The best shoot proliferation from shoot tips was obtained on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 8.9 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 2.9 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Leaf lamina and petiole explants formed shoots through organogenesis via callus stage and/or directly from explant tissue. The highest values for shoot regeneration were obtained with 0.9 M BA and 2.9 M IAA for lamina explants. No shoot organogenesis was obtained on leaf explants cultured on MS medium supplemented with -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The regenerated shoots rooted the best on MS medium containing 0.6 M IAA or 0.5 M NAA. In vitro-propagated plants were transferred to soil with a survival rate of 85% after 3 mo. 
4293128|Minimal bactericidal concentrations (MBCs) were determined for 16 bacterial strains isolated from strawberry runners. Bacteria were treated with single antibiotics: Timentin, streptomycin sulfate, gentamicin, and dihydrostreptomycin; and with combinations of two or three antibiotics: Timentin, streptomycin sulfate, and gentamicin. Combinations of the three antibiotics (12) were effective with all bacteria tested and were then used to treat contaminated plantlets. Fragaria X ananassa Duch. cv. Jucunda inoculated with Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria or Pseudomonas corrugata were grown for 1 wk, then treated with combinations of Timentin, streptomycin, and gentamicin. Antibiotic treatments were 100% effective in eliminating P. corrugata from 'Jucunda,' but only 23% of the plants inoculated with X. campestris pv. vesicatoria were freed of the bacteria. Phytotoxicity was observed only at high antibiotic concentrations. Detection of bacteria from treated plants was most effective after one subculture, as antibiotics continued to inhibit bacterial growth on detection medium immediately after treatment.
23016590|South Africa has a rich flora which exhibits among the highest species density in the world, distributed across nine biomes that support an impressive diversity of animal life. However, a variety of human actions, invasion by alien species, natural disturbances and climate change collectively impact negatively on the great diversity of both plant and animal species. In situ conservation has long been practised, primarily in nature reserves, complemented by ex situ conservation in national botanic gardens, but in vitro plant conservation is not common. In the context of animal biodiversity conservation, the Wildlife Biological Resource Centre of the National Zoological Gardens utilises cryobanking as one of its major focuses and is now poised to expand as the repository for the cryoconservation of plant germplasm, particularly for indigenous recalcitrant-seeded and poor-seeding species. However, there are particular problems associated with successful germplasm cryostorage of such tropical and subtropical plants. As we see the science and application of cryobiology and cryoconservation as cross-cutting and transdisciplinary, we have entrained formal networking among scientists offering a range of specialisations aimed at a deeper understanding of common problems and practical outcomes to facilitate both plant and animal biobanking. The endeavours are aimed at elucidating the basis of both successes and failures in our efforts to attain optimal outcomes. With focus on best practices, standard operating procedures, validation and risk management for cryopreserved and cold-stored plant and animal material, our ultimate aim is to facilitate restoration by the safe reintroduction of indigenous species.
20064941|Ethylene effect on in vitro shoot proliferation of two apple rootstocks, MM111 and M9, was studied. Ethylene biosynthesis was proportionally stimulated by increasing concentrations of the precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC). When 25 M or more ACC was applied without any control of the headspace of culture vessels, shoot proliferation of both rootstocks was negatively affected. However, when shoot cultures were transferred to ACC-supplemented medium after the second week of culture, ACC had no effect. Supplementing the medium with aminoethoxyvinylglycine (AVG), an inhibitor of ethylene biosynthesis, together with the application of gas traps inside the flasks, significantly enhanced axillary shoot formation and elongation. Steady and high exogenous concentrations of ethylene in the culture flasks had negative effects on shoot proliferation. MM111 appeared to be more sensitive to ethylene than M9. For AVG a threshold dose was noticed, beyond which phytotoxic effects were induced.
20541053|The propagation of Givotia rottleriformis Griff. is difficult as a result of long seed dormancy associated with poor seed germination. The present study was undertaken to develop a protocol to overcome seed dormancy by culture of zygotic embryo axes and then develop an efficient method for micropropagation of Givotia. Best germination frequency (78.3%) was achieved from mature zygotic embryo axes isolated from acid-scarified fresh seeds when cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (half-strength major salts) with 28.9 M gibberellic acid (GA). Efficient plant conversion was achieved by transfer of 10-d-old germinated embryos to MS medium (half-strength major salts) supplemented with 1.2 M kinetin (KN) and 0.5 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). However, acid scarification of 1-yr-old seeds decreased the germination frequency of zygotic embryo axes in comparison to those obtained from non-acid-scarified seeds which germinated (96.2%) and converted into plants (80.3%) on MS basal (half-strength major salts) medium. Multiple shoot bud induction was achieved by culture of shoot tips derived from in vitro germinated seedlings on MS medium with 0.5 M thidiazuron for 4 wk, and the shoots elongated after transfer to a secondary medium with 1.2 M KN. A maximum number of 7.8 shoots per explant with an average shoot length of 3.2 cm was achieved after two subcultures on this medium. The in vitro regenerated shoots rooted (41.5%) on half-strength MS medium with 0.5 M IBA. The in vitro generated seedlings and micro-propagated plants were established in soil with a survival frequency of 70% and 60%, respectively.
4293249|Conventional propagation of amaryllis, Hippeastrum Herbert sp. hybrids by bulb offsets is slow, seasonal, and variable; additionally, some amaryllis hybrids do not produce many offsets. From seed, it takes approximately 2 yr to flower. Micropropagation of Zephyranthes L. sp. bulbs has challenges related to contamination of stage I cultures as well as genotype differences in culture media requirements. There are literature reports on in vitro propagation of both genera; however, the application of these reports to new cultivars leaves unanswered questions regarding surface disinfestation, explant, nutrient media, and multiplication rates. Surface disinfestation of container-grown Hippeastrum spp. hybrid cv. San Antonio Rose bulbs resulted in contamination rates of 20 to 100% in spite of various treatments, some of which killed the explant. Twin scale explants of San Antonio Rose bulbs responded on a Murashige and Skoog salt medium with 2 mg naphthalene acetic acid per l, and transfer to soil was not a problem. In contrast, aseptically germinated seed of Zephyranthes sp. served as a suitable source of clean bulb tissue.
4293508|In order to better understand somaclonal variant rate evolution in plant tissue culture, a statistical approach has been adopted. According to this approach, the variant percentage could be calculated by:
20064946|Scanning electron microscopy, light microscopy, and gravimetric analysis was used to evaluate stomatal function, epicuticular wax, and the stem-root transition region of grape (Vitis sp. 'Valiant') plantlets grown in vitro, polyethylene glycol-treated in vitro, and greenhouse-grown plants. Scanning electron microscopic studies of leaf surfaces of in vitro-grown plants showed widely open stomata as compared to leaf stomata of polyethylene glycol-treated in vitro-cultured and greenhouse-grown plants. Ultrastructurally, leaf epicuticular wax of in vitro plants was less dense than in their polyethylene-treated and greenhouse counterparts. Quantitatively, in vitro-grown plants had reduced epicuticular wax as compared to polyethylene glycol-treated and greenhouse-grown plants. Light microscopic studies showed no obvious differences in the vascular connections in the stem-root transition region of in vitro-cultured, polyethylene glycol-treated in vitro-cultured, and greenhouse-grown plants. It is therefore likely that the rapid wilting and desiccation observed after transplanting in vitro grape plantlets is due to their defective stomatal function and reduced epicuticular wax and may not be due to poor water transport associated with vascular connection.
4292926|Sugar in the medium is considered to be an essential cause for the high production costs of plantlets in conventional, heterotrophic micropropagation. Chlorophyllous expiants, shoots, and plantlets in vitro have high photosynthetic ability to develop photoautotrophy, but their photosynthetic activity is restricted largely by the low CO
20541049|An in vitro regeneration system with a 100% efficiency rate was developed in peppermint [Mentha x piperita] using 5- to 7-mm-long second internode stem segments of 3-wk-old stock plants. Shoots developed at sites of excision on stem fragments either directly from the cells or via primary calluses. The optimal medium for maximum shoot initiation and regeneration contained Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts, B5 vitamins, thidiazuron (TDZ, 11.35 M), ZT (4.54 M), 10% coconut water (CW), 20 g l sucrose, 0.75% agar, adjusted to pH 5.8. A frequency of 100% shoot initiation was achieved, with an average of 39 shoots per explant. This regeneration system is highly reproducible. The regenerated plants developed normally and were phenotypically similar to Black Mitcham parents.
4293088|The effects of changes in the concentration of macronutrients on BA-induced caulogenesis from leaves of mature Juniperus oxycedrus cultured on modified Murashige and Skoog or Schenk and Hildebrandt media are reported. The bud-forming capacity of the expiants depended mainly on the ratios among the levels of ammonium, nitrate, and potassium. The most favorable media formulations for differentiation of adventitious buds were those with nitrate:potassium, ammonium:potassium, and nitrate:ammonium ratios near 1, around 0.1, and between 9 and 15, respectively. The total ionic strength of the media limited bud induction, but only when a disequilibrium of these ratios was produced.
40981343|The photochemical reflectance index (PRI) of micropropagated potato leaves was estimated nondestructively from outside the culture vessel using a PRI imaging system developed by the present group. The PRI was determined under low light intensity conditions after dark treatment and compared with the chlorophyll fluorescence parameter Fv/Fm, which denotes photosystem II maximum quantum yield. Short-term high-light treatment decreased Fv/Fm of the plantlets. Culture conditions such as temperature and sucrose concentration also affected Fv/Fm. A linear relationship between the PRI and Fv/Fm was observed in both cases of high-light treatment and different culture conditions, suggesting the potential of the PRI to be used as a substitute for Fv/Fm. PRI estimated from reflection images under low light intensity conditions may be used for rapid and noninvasive evaluation of photosynthetic properties of micropropagated plantlets in a similar manner to Fv/Fm.
4293786|The present study reports that a revised nutrient concentration in the basal medium improved shoot bud induction and subsequent plant regeneration in barley (Hordeum vulgare L. var. BL-2). Cultures were raised from immature embryos on
4293633|The influence of the gaseous composition of the atmosphere inside culturing vessels on somatic embryogenesis and on adventitious root formation was investigated in the quince clone (Cydonia oblonga Mill.) BA29. Leaves taken from in vitro-grown shoots were cultured in glass Petri dishes and exposed to ventilation with atmospheric air (flow rate
4293635| A method has been developed for the induction of adventitious shoots from leaf tissue of Echinacea pallida with subsequent whole-plant regeneration. Proliferating callus and shoot cultures were derived from leaf tissue explants placed on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine and naphthaleneacetic acid combinations. The optimum shoot regeneration frequency (63%) and number of shoots per explant (2.3 shoots per explant) was achieved using media supplemented with 26.6 M 6-benzylaminopurine and 0.11 M naphthaleneacetic acid. Rooting of regenerated shoot explants was successful on Murashige and Skoog medium, both with and without the addition of indole-3-butyric acid. All plantlets survived acclimatization, producing phenotypically normal plants in the greenhouse. This study demonstrates that leaf tissue of E. pallida is competent for adventitious shoot regeneration and establishes a useful method for the micropropagation of this important medicinal plant. 
20461654|This study investigated the factors affecting in vitro flowering of Perilla frutescens. The shoots regenerated from cotyledonary and hypocotyl explants cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with benzyladenine (BA) and indole-3-acetic acid, each at 0.5 mg l, were excised and transferred to MS medium containing 30 g l of sucrose, 8.25 g l of ammonium nitrate, and 1.0 mg l of BA. After 40 d of culture, 86.2% of shoots flowered and most of which self-fertilized in vitro and produced mature fruits with viable seeds. These seeds were germinated and plants were grown to maturity and flowered in soil under greenhouse conditions. The in vitro flowering system reported in this study may facilitate rapid breeding of P. frutescens and offers a model system for studying the physiological mechanism of flowering.
4293663|The purpose of this study was to establish an efficient in vitro nodulation device for producing actinorhizal root nodules on Allocasuarina verticillata and Casuarina glauca. Seeds from the two species were germinated aseptically and seedlings with at least two photosynthetic branchlets and a 3-5 cm long root system were transferred into Petri dishes containing a biphasic (solid/liquid) medium. To assess the nodulation capacity, four different culture media were tested. As soon as the root system developed and spread adequately on the surface of the medium, plants were deprived of nitrogen for at least 1 wk and inoculated with the Frankia strain. The time course nodulation for A. verticillata showed that the basal Hoagland medium supplemented with CaCO
23254895|Garlic, an important flavoring agent and a medicinally useful plant, can take up selenium from its immediate surrounding medium and incorporate it at high concentrations into amino acids and phytochemicals. Selenium, supplied as 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, and 4.0 mg L -1 Na 2 SeO 3 increased the amino acid, protein, proline, and alliin content of in vitro-grown callus, embryo, plantlet, leaf, and root tissues of Allium sativum L. The enhancement was significant at 2 and 4 mg L -1 . Superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione reductase activities increased in all in vitro-grown tissues and organs with increasing selenium concentrations, but enzyme activity was highest with 4 mg L -1 selenium.
20064828|Continuous culture is an attractive research tool in physiologic and growth and production kinetics research. However, fulfillment of the basic assumptions of continuous culture in the experimental set-up may cause problems. The homogeneity of plant cell cultures and effluent, particularly, may cause problems. This paper presents an experimental set-up which solves these problems and describes the use of this equipment in a study of the growth kinetics of plant cells. Industrial application of the continuous culture of plant cells in the production of secondary metabolites seems to be profitable when compared with batch or fed-batch cultures. However, various problems such as uncoupled product formation and strain instability make fed-batch culture a better choice.
20461596|Experiments were carried out with Taxus baccata cell lines showing different paclitaxel-producing capacities (between 1.74 and 19.91 mg l) when growing in a selected product-formation medium that specifically stimulated the production of taxane to the detriment of cell growth. Through mixing low-, medial- and high-producing lines, it could be observed that paclitaxel productivity in the resulting mixed lines was clearly higher than the mean productivity of the individual lines before mixing. This suggests that culture components generated by high-producing individual lines within the population might induce paclitaxel production. Although the accumulation of paclitaxel and baccatin III was higher when 100 M methyl jasmonate was added to the subcultures of the mixed lines, the results indicate that exogenously applied methyl jasmonate was not the first factor to stimulate taxane production. The possible effects of methyl jasmonate elicitation and paclitaxel accumulation on cell viability are also considered.
20064899|Somatic embryogenesis was observed with explants taken from four types of Aesculus tissue: (a) shoots of 4-wk-old in vitro germinated excised embryos (seed from A.  arnoldiana), (b) roots of 4-wk-old in vitro germinated excised embryos (seed from A.  arnoldiana), (c) shoots from newly forced 3-yr-old seedlings (A. glabra), and (d) newly forced shoots from a 30-yr-old tree (A.  arnoldiana "Autumn Splendor"). Shoots provided three types of explants, single node, shoot apex, and internodal section, and all exhibited embryogenesis. Proembryogenic masses developed in a few cases after 6 wk in culture but were more commonly seen after 3 mo. The yellow, friable proembryogenic masses emerged from proximal cut ends of explants. Almost all cultures that formed embryos possessed leaves, either from developing apical or axillary buds or from adventitious buds, prior to the emergence of proembryogenic masses. Only tissues that had begun to senesce and had been exposed to cytokinin (benzyladenine at 5 or 25 M) formed somatic embryos. Embryos with distinct cotyledonlike structures and root/shoot axes developed during the 10 to 16 wk following the initial emergence of proembryogenic masses. Enhanced frequency of embryogenesis was obtained by dark culture of root and shoot explants from 4-wk-old germinated embryos (A.  arnoldiana) and by dark and cold (5 C) treatment of shoot tissue cultures derived from 3-yr-old seedlings (A. glabra). Embryogenic potential was greatest in the most juvenile tissue and least in the mature tissue. Five percent of shoot explants taken from the 30-yr-old select tree A.  arnoldiana "Autumn Splendor" produced somatic embryos.
20540986|Seed explants of A. stenosperma were cultured on MS medium supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine with the aim of rescuing nonviable accessions stored in seed bank conditions. The regeneration potential of leaf explants from in vitro plants derived from embryonic axes was studied by using whole leaflets and leaflet segments. Explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with different concentrations of 6-benzylaminopurine and naphthalene acetic acid. Indirect organogenesis was observed in response to 6-benzylaminopurine, either alone or in association with naphthalene acetic acid, in both explant types. Media supplemented with naphthalene acetic acid as the sole growth regulator induced rhizogenesis in whole leaflets and leaflet segments, with subsequent shoot production directly from the roots.
20065030|An efficient protocol for large-scale micropropagation of Isoplexis canariensis (L.) Loud., I. chalcantha Svent. and O'Shan., and I. isabelliana (Webb and Berth.) Masf. (Scrophulariaceae) is reported. Multiple shoots were obtained from shoot tips and nodal segments isolated from seedlings when cultured under varying conditions. Factors such as nutrient media, concentration of growth regulators, and type of induction medium (liquid or solid) strongly influenced shoot proliferation and development. Multiple well-developed shoots were obtained after induction on solid media containing Murashige and Skoog full-strength salts and low cytokinin concentrations. By changing the major salt formulation to half strength and employing liquid media the morphogenic parameters evaluated were affected negatively. Many shoots rooted spontaneously in hormone-free media and plants grew successfully in the greenhouse. Flowering was observed 6 mo. after ex vitro cultures were established.
20064820|The involvement of free and conjugated polyamines in tuber formation was studied in in vitro cultured node explants of Solanum tuberosum cv. Superior. Tubers developed from the axillary buds in 100% of the explants cultured in MS medium containing high sucrose levels and supplemented with kinetin (Kin) and chlorocholine chloride (CCC). The addition of growth regulators was not essential for tuber formation, although smaller tubers were formed in the medium devoid of Kin and CCC. Tuber formation was inhibited in about 75% of node explants treated with 0.5 mM difluoromethylornithine (DFMO), a specific and irreversible inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase. The inhibitory effect of DFMO was almost completely reversed by putrescine addition. Addition of difluoromethylarginine (DFMA), the analogous inhibitor of arginine decarboxylase, had no effect on tuber formation. DFMO, but not DFMA, also inhibited the development of axillary buds into shoots in light-grown node explants. Aminooxyphenylpropionic acid (0.1 to 0.25 mM), an inhibitor of phenylalanine ammonia lyase, caused a sharp reduction in cinnamoyl putrescines, but had no effect on tuber formation. Our results suggest that hydroxycinnamic acids are not causal in tuber formation but may serve as polyamine storage pools. Our findings support the hypothesis that polyamines derived via the ornithine decarboxylase-mediated pathway are necessary for tuber formation in vitro, probably at the early phase of morphogenesis involving active cell division.
4293518|Success has been achieved in developing a complete protocol for mass propagation of Anogeissus pendula and A. latifolia, two important forest species found in India. Seeds cultured on plant growth regulator-free, semisolid Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium germinated within 5-6wk and formed 4-6-cm long shoots. The shoots multiplied on
4293352| We describe a protocol, and several experiments that helped lead to its development, for sunflower regeneration. Important factors for sunflower regeneration were explant age, cytokinin type and concentration, basal medium, and explant source. We could not induce shoot regeneration from the explants derived from mature tissues including leaf, petiole, and stem. However, use of juvenile explants such as embryo meristem and primordial leaf tissues allowed routine regeneration of 17 different sunflower genotypes. High frequency of shoot regeneration was achieved with these explants taken from seedlings up to 5 d after germination. Explant age was less critical for embryo meristem explants than for primordial leaf tissues. Of the four basal media tested, MS and B5 media produced higher shoot-regeneration frequencies than did Anderson and woody plant media. The highest shoot-regeneration frequency was obtained with MS medium supplemented with 2 M BA and without auxin. Addition of 1 M naphthalene-acetic acid to the medium significantly reduced both the percentage of explants producing shoots and average number of shoots per explant. Regenerated shoots were grown to maturity in a greenhouse. 
4293691|Since the success of Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of rice in the early 1990s, significant advances in Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of monocotyledonous plant species have been achieved. Transgenic plants obtained via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation have been regenerated in more than a dozen monocotyledonous species, ranging from the most important cereal crops to ornamental plant species. Efficient transformation protocols for agronomically important cereal crops such as rice, wheat, maize, barley, and sorghum have been developed and transformation for some of these species has become routine. Many factors influencing Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of monocotyledonous plants have been investigated and elucidated. These factors include plant genotype, explant type, Agrobacterium strain, and binary vector. In addition, a wide variety of inoculation and co-culture conditions have been shown to be important for the transformation of monocots. For example, antinecrotic treatments using antioxidants and bactericides, osmotic treatments, desiccation of explants before or after Agrobacterium infection, and inoculation and co-culture medium compositions have influenced the ability to recover transgenic monocots. The plant selectable markers used and the promoters driving these marker genes have also been recognized as important factors influencing stable transformation frequency. Extension of transformation protocols to elite genotypes and to more readily available explants in agronomically important crop species will be the challenge of the future. Further evaluation of genes stimulating plant cell division or T-DNA integration, and genes increasing competency of plant cells to Agrobacterium, may increase transformation efficiency in various systems. Understanding mechanisms by which treatments such as desiccation and antioxidants impact T-DNA delivery and stable transformation will facilitate development of efficient transformation systems.
20064840|A cell line of Datura innoxia was selected in suspension culture to be resistant to 1% (vol/vol) ethanol (
4293809|Despite intensive efforts, a reproducible and reliable method for transformation of sugarbeet plants is still lacking. Having examined several explants, we found that cells around the main vein of leaves of plantlets reared from tissue-cultured apical meristems are sufficiently competent for transformation and subsequent regeneration. A transformation protocol was designed by evaluating alterations in several parameters such as plant genotype, Agrobacterium strain, antibiotics, darkness and duration of co-culture period. An average transformation rate of 6.2% transformed shoots per explant was achieved as judged by Southern blotting. Consistent inactivation of reporter genes was correlated to multiple copies of transgenes present in some transformants. The necessary steps for rooting and planting of transformed shoots were also established.
20064969|We have developed micropropagation systems for 21 species of Mexican cacti using explants from seedlings germinated in vitro or shoot segments of juvenile 2-3-yr-old greenhouse plants. The species propagated belong to the genera Astrophytum, Cephalocereus, Coryphantha, Echinocactus, Echinocereus, Echinofossulocactus, Ferocactus, Mammillaria, Nyctocereus, and Stenocactus. Multiple shoot formation from areoles was achieved in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with either 1 or 2 mg N-benzyladenine (BA) per 1 (4.44 or 8.87 M) or BA at 1 or 2 mg/l plus naphthaleneacetic acid at 0.1 or 1 mg/l (0.54 or 5.37 M). The requirements of growth regulators for optimal shoot proliferation, the velocity of the response, and the number of buds produced by explant were different among the genera and species studied. Rooting of the shoots generated in vitro was achieved in MS medium supplemented with indoleacetic acid at 0.5-1 mg/l (2.85-5.71 M) or indolebutyric acid at 0.5-1 mg/l (2.46-4.90 M). Finally, 70-95% of the rooted plants transferred to potting medium survived.
4293622|The development of plants capable of growing under saline conditions is one approach at utilizing saline soils that are otherwise arable. This study was designed to develop salt-tolerant yam (Dioscorea alata) plantlets, using tissue culture techniques. Salt-tolerant yam (Dioscorea alata cv. Sweet yam) plantlets were produced in vitro through repeated culturing and selection on saline media. Two hundred plantlets were subcultured on normal multiplication media (Murashige and Skoog basal media with
40981338|Evidence for the link between the surface of culture medium and abnormal shoot formation in the presence of exogenous putrescine is presented. Little is known about the role of putrescine in rapid shoot regeneration in the callus of orchids pretreated with mannitol and cadmium chloride (CdCl). Ultrastructural analysis of putrescine-altered CdCl -and mannitol-treated callus after 4 wk of culture showed the presence of numerous oil droplets, rough endoplasmic reticulum, and dictyosomes. Callus pretreated with mannitol and CdCl but without exogenous putrescine showed the presence of amyloplasts, condensed mitochondria, and active vacuole within 12 h of pretreatment. This study not only establishes a new method to achieve rapid regeneration of Cymbidium callus but also describes different types of shoots on the basis of its contact with the surface of the culture medium. Histologically, two types of cells in the apical meristem are defined. One type of cells has compromised volume which was lost upon division and is represented by small deeply stained cells of the shoots regenerated from the upper portion of the callus and is considered normal. The other type is represented by highly vacuolated and less deeply stained cells of the shoots regenerated from the lower portion of the callus in contact with the medium and is considered abnormal in this study. To avoid such abnormalities, frequent subculture of callus halves which were obtained by a median transverse cut before the rgnrants (PLBs) were converted to shoots is recommended. This new methodology was successful in achieving rapid regeneration of uniform shoots from callus.
4293439| Ceratopetalum gummiferum Sm. 'Albery's Red' (NSW Christmas Bush), a native to eastern Australia, has become an important commercial plant in both the export and domestic markets. A protocol for in vitro culture was investigated for rapid clonal propagation of selected cultivars. Murashige and Skoog medium, supplemented with various concentrations of 6-benzylaminopurine, kinetin, 6(,-dimethylalrylamino)-purine or zeatin were examined for their effects on multiplication. The most successful treatments were 2.2 M 6-benzylaminopurine and 11.6 M kinetin which increased shoot number and explant weight. Although zeatin and 6(,-dimethylalrylamino)-purine increased shoot length, both failed to increase multiplication rates. However, hyperhydricity was found to be a serious physiological disorder in tissue culture of C. gummiferum 'Albery's Red'. Rooting in vitro was also examined with indole-3-butyric acid and naphthalene acetic acid, the most successful being 4.9 mM indole-3-butyric acid. The development of an in vivo rooting protocol, however, may prove to be essential for the commercial production of this plant. 
42568879|Effects of iso-osmotic concentrations of NaCl and mannitol were studied in Mammilaria gracilis (Cactaceae) in both calli and tumors grown in vitro. In both tissues, relative growth rates were reduced under osmotic stress, which were accompanied by a decrease in both tissue water and K content. However, growth was inhibited to a lesser extent after exposure to NaCl, when accumulation of Na ions was observed. In calli, only salinity increased proline content, whereas with tumors proline accumulated after both osmotic stresses. Osmotic stresses also induced oxidative damage in both cactus tissues, although higher oxidative injury was caused by mannitol in calli and by salt in tumors. Low isoosmotic concentrations of NaCl (75 mM) and mannitol (150 mM) increased peroxidase, ascorbate peroxidase, and esterase activities, whereas elevated catalase activity was recorded only after mannitol treatment in both tissues. High osmotic stress generally decreased enzymatic activities. However, in calli, esterase activity increased in response to high salinity, whereas ascorbate peroxidase activity was enhanced after high mannitol stress. In conclusion, both in vitro-grown cactus tissues were found to be sensitive to osmotic stress caused by either mannitol or NaCl, but accumulation of Na ions in response to salt somewhat contributed to osmotic adjustment. However, more prominent oxidative damage induced by NaCl compared to mannitol in tumor could be related to ion toxicity. The mechanisms that mediate responses to salt-and mannitol-induced osmotic stresses differed and were dependent on tissue type.
4293774| A protocol has been developed for in vitro plant regeneration from cotyledonary nodes of Pterocarpus marsupium Roxb. Multiple shoots were induced from cotyledonary nodes derived from 20-d-old axenic seedlings grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 2.22-13.32 M benzyladenine (BA) or 2.32-13.93 M kinetin alone or in combination with 0.26 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The highest frequency of responding explants (85%) and maximum number of shoots per explant (9.5) were obtained on MS medium supplemented with 4.44 M BA and 0.26 M NAA after 15 wk of culture. A proliferating shoot culture was established by repeatedly subculturing the original cotyledonary nodal explant on fresh medium after each harvest of the newly formed shoots. Nearly 30% of the shoots formed roots after being transferred to half-strength MS medium containing 9.84 M indole-3-butyric acid after 25 d of culture. Fifty percent of shoots were also directly rooted as microcuttings on peat moss, soil, and compost mixture (1:1:1). About 52% plantlets rooted under ex vitro conditions were successfully acclimatized and established in pots. 
4293919|The types of auxin in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing
20461593|This study describes a protocol for plant regeneration from cultured seedling explants of Arctium lappa. Hypocotyls and cotyledons of A. lappa were induced to form callus by culturing on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2.0 mg l 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 0.5-2.0 mg l benzyladenine (BA). Formation of adventitious buds could be induced from calluses or explants directly by culturing on MS medium containing 1.0-2.0 mg l -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 0.5-2.0 mg l BA. These regenerated shoots were rooted on MS medium with 1.0 mg l indole-3-butyric acid or indole-3-acetic acid in combination with 1.0 mg l NAA. The regenerated plants acclimatized in soil were normal morphologically and in growth characters. They flowered and set seeds in the following year after acclimatization.
40981348|Mechanisms that bring about coordination of cell growth and cell division in different organisms are biological events not yet clearly revealed. In maize, insulin effector of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-target of rapamycin (TOR) signal transduction pathway in metazoan or an intrinsic maize growth factor similar to insulin has shown to regulate cell growth. This research has been undertaken to analyze the role of PI3K-TOR signal transduction pathway in maintaining coordinated regulation of cell growth and cell division in maize tissues. Results indicate that DNA synthesis as well as mitotic index increased in maize callus in vitro cultures after insulin or maize factor stimulation. Biomass and ribosomal protein synthesis also showed significant increment after this stimulation, and the cell morphology composition of the cultures drastically changed. Two proteins related to cell cycle, D-type cyclins and proliferating cell nuclear antigen, were selectively synthesized under these conditions. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis of total and polysomal RNAs revealed that this effect was mainly due to specific mobilization of the correspondent mRNAs into polysomes rather than to transcriptional activation. All these events were sensitive to rapamycin inhibition, indicating that the stimulatory effect was mediated by TOR kinase activation. It is concluded that the evolutionary conserved PI3K-TOR pathway might coordinately regulate cell growth and cell division in maize.
4293248|Perennial plant tissue cultures are established by disinfecting field or greenhouse-grown plant parts and transferring them to sterile medium in vitro. Typically, shoots harvested from field or greenhouse-grown plants are placed in water, either to force growth from dormant branches or to maintain them until ready for explanting. In spite of extreme care, 90 to 100% contamination rates in newly established in vitro cultures are not unusual. Experience has identified several routine procedures that reduce contamination, such as minimizing the amount of time a stem cutting is maintained in water before being explanted, adjusting pH of the medium to a more acidic condition, and using pH neutralized bleach to sterilize instruments during subculture. Other methods to reduce contamination include establishing field-grown plants in a green-house where inoculum levels can be better controlled, trellising vining plants to get them off the soil, avoiding wetting foliage, and selecting vigorous expiants that are not in contact with soil.
42568797|Maturation of somatic embryos of Anthurium andraeanum cv. Eidibel from embryogenic callus was evaluated. Following induction of embryogenic calli from nodal segments, tissues were transferred to 125-mL Erlenmeyer flasks containing 25 mL liquid medium, with 0, 4.52, or 9.05 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 0, 0.47, or 2.32 M kinetin. Callus cultures were maintained in a dark growth room at 252C. At 45 d, the mass of embryogenic calli, number of primary and secondary somatic embryos, and percentage browning were evaluated. Nonparametric tests were used to evaluate color, texture, and somatic embryo development. The highest yield of somatic embryos was in the medium with 0.47 M kinetin. Calli were friable, with a lower yield of secondary somatic embryos, and have minimal browning. Histology revealed polar globular somatic embryos and mature somatic embryos with defined apical and root meristematic zones, axillary buds, and primary leaves. These are important features for converting somatic embryos into plantlets.
20461676|Using immature embryos and cotyledons as explants, a successful immature embryo culture and efficient plant direct regeneration via organogenesis from cotyledons, which showed different patterns, was established for the "Xuemei" cultivar of Prunus mume. For immature embryo culture, high frequency plantlet forming (89.5%) from embryo axis was obtained on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 13.2 M 6-benzyladenine (BA) and 2.7 M 1-naphthaleneacetic (NAA). At the same time, shoots direct differentiation from cotyledons with the embryo axis development was also observed on MS medium containing 2.2 M BA together with different combinations of NAA (2.7, 5.4 M) and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) (0, 2.5, 5.0 M). Better results were achieved when embryo axes were removed from cotyledons and cultured on MS medium supplement with 13.2 M BA, 2.7 M NAA (72.9%) or 2.2 M BA, 2.2 M thidiazuron (TDZ), and 2.7 M NAA (84.2%), respectively. Regenerated shoots were successfully rooted on MS or Woody Plant medium (WPM) supplemented with 2.5-5.0 M IBA. The effect of embryo axes, BA and TDZ, on cotyledons' regeneration were investigated in detail. The rooted plantlets were transferred to soil successfully with normal morphology.
4293446| Previous results have shown that some proteins secreted in the culture medium are involved with the formation of embryogenic cells and can modify somatic embryo differentiation. Undifferentiated cell suspensions grown in the presence of 13 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and obtained from embryogenic and non-embryogenic callus were used to study these events in sugarcane plants (cv. PR-62258). The cell suspension growth curves were determined and soluble proteins were extracted from embryogenic and non-embryogenic callus and culture medium from cell suspensions. In embryogenic callus we detected 1.43 times more protein than in non-embryogenic callus and the electrophoretic protein patterns show specific polypeptides for both callus types. In embryogenic callus we detected a cluster of four polypeptides in the range of 38-44 kDa and another polypeptide of 23 kDa that were not observed in non-embryogenic callus. In nonembryogenic callus there is a 35-kDa polypeptide that was not detected in embryogenic callus. In the case of extracellular proteins, the medium from embryogenic cell suspensions contained four polypeptides of 41, 38, 34 and 28 kDa that were slightly detected in the medium from non-embryogenic cell cultures; we also detected a band at 15 kDa that could not be observed in the medium from non-embryogenic cell suspensions. These results suggest that the development of embryogenic callus and cell suspensions is related to the type and amount of intracellular proteins in the callus cells and to the secreted proteins from these cells into the medium. 
20064845|Production of somatic embryos in suspension cultures of Dactylis glomerata L. (orchardgrass) was stimulated by the addition of various compounds containing reduced nitrogen to Schenk and Hildebrandt (SH) basal medium. Equimolar concentrations of combinations of proline and either serine or threonine supported embryogenesis, whereas, these amino acids individually did not promote embryogenesis. SH medium supplemented with 6 to 25 mM ammonium ion or Murashige-Skoog basal medium also supported embryo production. Ammonium ion did not act synergistically with either proline or serine to enhance embryogenesis. Embryos produced in media containing amino acid combinations were formed singly, did not exhibit secondary embryogenesis, and had significantly higher conversion rates compared to those formed in either SH medium supplemented with ammonium ion only or in combination with amino acids.
20541037|With rapid economic development, energy consumption in China has tripled in the past 20 yr, exceeding 2.4 billion tons of standard coal in 2006. The search for new green energy as substitutes for the nonrenewable energy resources has become an urgent task. China has a variety of climates and is rich in potential biofuel plant species. Corn and cassava are used as the main raw materials for bioethanol production in China. At the end of 2005, bioethanol productivity had increased to 1.02 million tons produced by four companies, and bioethanol-blended petrol accounted for 20% of the total petrol consumption in China. According to the Mid- and Long-term Development Plan for Renewable Energy, the consumption of biodiesel in China will reach 0.2 million tons in 2010 and 2.0 million tons in 2020. This review is intended to provide an introduction to the distribution and development of biofuel crops and biofuel industry in China.
20540989|Renealmia mexicana (Klotzsch ex. Petersen) is a tropical plant found in southern Mxico with an ornamental value and a potential source of curcuminoids. Its distribution in Chiapas has decreased because of deforestation and low propagation and germination rate, so a protocol for in vitro propagation was developed. An orthogonal experimental design of L (3) in triplicate was used to investigate the effect of 6-benzyl adenine (BA), indole butyric acid (IBA), silver nitrate (AgNO), and sucrose on shoot, root, and leaf development of plantlets grown in vitro. Plantlets with well-developed shoots and roots were transferred to pots containing a mixture of peat moss and agrolite for hardening before transfer to soil. The Murashige and Skoog (Physiol. Plant. 15:473-497, 1962) mineral medium (MS) supplemented with 4.4 M BA, 2.5 M IBA, 11.7 M $\text{AgNO}_{3\text{y}}$ and 5.5% (w/v) sucrose gave most shoots, 8.9 M BA, 2.5 M IBA, 17.7 M AgNO and 5.5% (w/v) sucrose most roots, and 8.9 M BA, 4.9 M IBA, 11.7 M AgNO and 3.0% (w/v) sucrose most leaves, although other combinations were statistically equivalent in each case. Sucrose was the factor that most explained the variation in the promotion of shoots, roots, and leaves. The protocol developed resulted in up to 100% survival when plantlets were transferred to soil using AgNO, confirming that hardening of plantlets in vitro using hormonal stimulation was a suitable strategy to improve acclimatization.
4293822|Plantlets propagated in temporary immersion bioreactors (TIB) have better performance than those propagated by conventional methods such as micropropagation. This is as a result of a better handling of the in vitro atmosphere and the nutrition. The object of this study was to further improve the cultivation conditions by introducing photomixotrophism as an intermediate link of photoautotrophic growth during ex vitro acclimatization. For this purpose the effects of light were evaluated by different parameters such as photosynthetic photon flux density (PPF), sucrose concentration, and CO
20461614|Callus induction and regeneration studies were carried out on a medicinal fern, Drynaria quercifolia native to Asian countries. It is a seasonal fern that regenerates only during the monsoons. Callus was induced on Knop's (1865) medium supplemented with 20 g l sucrose, 8 g l agar, and either 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4,5-T), 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid (picloram), or indole-3-butyric acid at different concentrations. Morphogenetic callus obtained on 5 mg l 2,4,5-T was subcultured onto solid and liquid media (shaken flask and discontinuously stirred bioreactor cultures) for callus proliferation and regeneration studies. A significant amount of sporophyte regeneration was observed on solid medium containing 10 mg l 6-(,-dimethylallylamino) purine (2iP). Sporophyte regeneration from callus followed an atypical pattern of development. Leafy structures of single-cell thickness with a microrhizome were formed as sporophyte initials. Prolonged cultures of these structures resulted in the formation of juvenile sporophytes in vitro. The use of liquid media resulted in increased biomass in culture. The present study is the first report of a successful system for callus production and regeneration of sporophytes from leafy structures in ferns. The method can be successfully applied for generation of biomass of D. quercifolia, throughout the year.
40663785|Micropropagation of Embelia ribes was achieved through proliferation of axillary shoots obtained from mature plants. Nodal shoot segments, collected March-May, exhibited high-frequency (75%) shoot initiation when cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with thidiazuron (TDZ) at 1.13 M and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) at 0.49 M. Subculture of sprouted shoots from the original explants on medium containing TDZ (1.13 and 0.45 M) during the first and second subcultures was found essential for further shoot proliferation, while inhibition of shoot elongation by TDZ could be overcome by transferring shoot cultures onto MS medium containing 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP; 11.10 M) for the third subculture. Treating the expiants with an antioxidant mixture of 568 M ascorbic acid, 119 M citric acid, and 307 M glutathione prior to inoculation, coupled with subculture at 2-wk intervals onto fresh medium, both helped to reduce browning of the expiants and facilitated production of five to six shoots/explant. MS medium supplemented with BAP (4.44 M) and IBA (0.49 M) induced shoot multiplication, producing five to six shoots/expiant with a shoot length of 3 to 4 cm over a 4-wk culture period. Shoots of 3 to 4 cm in length exhibited 100% rooting within 4 wk after transfer to media containing half the nutrient salt concentration of MS medium with 3.69 M IBA. Ex vitro rooting in the greenhouse from the in vitro shoots treated with 4.93 M IBA for 30 min exhibited 95% rooting in soilrite medium in a 4-wk period. About 85% of micropropagated plants were established successfully in root trainers. Three-month-old, hardened plants could further be successfully established in the field. In 1 yr, by using the above protocol, 3,200 plants could be produced from a single shoot and 2,700 could be established in the field.
4293381|Hairy root cultures of Panax ginseng, established after the infection of root sections with Agrobacterium rhizogenes KCTC 2703, were cultured in phytohormone-free Murashige and Skoog (MS) liquid medium containing different concentrations of jasmonic acid and some other elicitors, in order to promote ginsenoside accumulation. Jasmonic acid in the range
20461559|Plants were successfully regenerated via somatic embryos from 3-yr-old cell suspension cultures of Medicago truncatula Gaertn. cv. Jemalong line M9-10a. The cultures were originally initiated from callus induced in well-expanded leaflets of 30 d in vitro-grown plants. Suspension cultures were established in stirred-liquid Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal salts and vitamins supplemented with 2.3 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 2.3 M kinetin (Kin) and subcultured weekly. Somatic embryogenesis induction step was conducted in liquid MS medium containing 0.45 M 2,4-D and 0.91 M zeatin (Zea), during 1, 2, and 3 wk after subculture. Induced and non-induced cultures were transferred to solid embryo proliferation medium [EPM-MS basal salts and vitamins solidified with 0.2% (w/v) gelrite]. Somatic embryos developed until the late torpedo/dicotyledonary stages. We found that the best condition for the development of somatic embryos was achieved when suspension cultures were not subjected to the induction step. Induction of 1 and 2 wk led to a decrease in the recovery of somatic embryos and the 3-wk treatment resulted in no differentiation of somatic embryos. Plant regeneration was obtained in all conditions (except for 3 wk induction) when embryos were transferred to an embryo conversion medium [ECM, similar to EPM but solidified with 0.7% (w/v) agar]. Embryo conversion rates were 54.5  1.6, 52.5  18.5, and 41.6  8.4% for 0, 1, and 2 wk induction treatments, respectively. These plants were successfully transferred to the greenhouse where they matured and produced seeds.
4293472|This report outlines the development of optimized particle inflow gun (PIG) parameters for producing transgenic sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench). Both transient and stable expression were examined when determining these parameters. The uidA reporter gene (GUS) encoding
4293411| Rate of enlargement of epidermal cells from soybean, when measured at intervals of 1 min using a light microscope equipped with a video measurement system, oscillated with a period length of about 24 min. This oscillation parallels the 24-min periodicity observed for the oxidation of NADH by the external plasma membrane NADH oxidase. The increase in length was not only non-linear, but intervals of rapid increase in area alternated with intervals of rapid decrease in area. The length of the period was temperature compensated, and was approximately the same when measured at 14, 24 and 34C even though the rate of cell enlargement varied over this same range of temperatures. These observations represent the first demonstration of an oscillatory growth behavior correlated with a biochemical activity where the period length of both is independent of temperature (temperature compensated) as is the hallmark of clock-related biological phenomena. 
4293544| We studied the relationship between root differentiation and the accumulation of essential oils in Angelica archangelica in in vitro cultures and in the intact plant. Root regeneration was obtained using stem and leaf explants subjected to treatment with the auxins indole-3-butyric acid, indole-3-acetic acid and -naphthaleneacetic acid. In both stem and leaf explants, treatment with indole-3-butyric acid induced the highest rhizogenic response in terms of both percentage of explants with roots and number of roots per explant. Independently of hormonal treatment, stem explants produced a higher average number of roots per explant. Root meristemoids were already visible at day 7 of culture in the treatments with indole-3-butyric acid and indole-3-acetic acid; they were formed directly by cambial-cell division. In vitro-regenerated roots retained primary root structure and differentiated only two primary ephemeral ducts in the pericycle; no accumulation of essential oils was detected. Same-size roots taken from the intact plant showed secondary structure and essential-oil accumulation. The results of this study suggest that the synthesis and accumulation of essential oils in Angelica archangelica is closely linked to the differentiation of secondary secretory ducts. 
20064925|A nutrient-mist bioreactor was designed that separates the nutrient medium from the electronic components via an acoustic window. This eliminates compromising culture sterility when repairing mechanical failures common with commercially available mist reactors. The experimental mist bioreactor is low cost and can be assembled in any laboratory. Toxicity tests of several potential acoustically transparent materials are included. Details of the construction procedures include methods for casting the window. Growth data using the newly designed nutrient mist bioreactor are compared to data from a commercial mist reactor, shake flasks, and Gelrite cultures. Artemisia annua hairy roots and Nephrolepis exaltata shoot cultures showed growth comparable to the conventional tissue culture methods.
4293093| Clonal propagation of Pinus pinea L. was achieved by organogenesis on cotyledon expiants and the influence of several factors on adventitious bud production and development was investigated. Gupta and Durzan (DCR) medium with benzyladenine (5 M) induced higher bud production. Bud development and shoot elongation required subcultures on medium with activated charcoal. Rooting was obtained after 10 d culture on medium containing IBA (10 M). 
4293177|In this paper we describe a simple and efficient DNA extraction protocol for Fragaria species, a highly recalcitrant genus due to the large amount of polyphenols and polymeric carbohydrates present in strawberry tissues. The protocol yields a high quality DNA that can be amplified by polymerase chain reaction and digested with restriction endonucleases.
20461647|The primary utilization of carbohydrates by cell suspension cultures of Rudgea jasminoides, a native woody Rubiaceae from tropical forests, was investigated. Sucrose, glucose + fructose, glucose, or fructose were supplied as carbon sources. The growth curves of R. jasminoides cultured in glucose + fructose, glucose, or fructose showed similar patterns to that observed when sucrose was supplied to the cells, except that an increase in dry mass was observed at the beginning of the stationary growth phase in the media containing only one monosaccharide. The increase in hexose levels in the media during the early stages of the cultures indicated extracellular hydrolysis of sucrose, which was further supported by the increase in the activity of acid invertase bound to the cell wall. Glucose was preferentially taken up, whereas uptake of fructose was delayed until glucose was nearly depleted from the medium. Measurements of intracellular sucrose content and cytoplasmatic and vacuolar invertases indicate that the enzymatic activity seems to be correlated with a decrease in the hexose flux into the cells of R. jasminoides. Our results indicate that the behavior of cell suspension cultures of R. jasminoides regarding sugar utilization seems to be similar to other dicotyledonous undifferentiated cell suspension cultures.
40793219|We describe here a simple and efficient system of soybean (Glycine max L. Merrill) regeneration through direct somatic embryogenesis by using immature embryonic shoot tips (IEST) as expiants. The cultivar Kaohsiung 10 (cv.K10) used in this study did not show embryognie response either from mature seed-derived expiants (cotyledon, embryonic tip, leaf, shoot and root) or immature cotyledons. However, it showed a high percentage (55.8%) of somatic embryo (SEm) formation from the IEST excised 2-3 wk after flowering, thus indicating the crucial roles of type and age of expiants. The IEST put forth primary SEm after 2 mo of culturing on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 6% sucrose, 164.8M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 5 mM asparagine and 684 M glutamine. Subsequently, secondary SEm were developed 1 mo after culturing on MS medium containing 123.6M 2,4-D and 3% sucrose. Cotyledonary embryos were induced on MS medium supplemented with 0.5% activated charcoal after 1 mo. The embryos were desiccated for 72-96 h on sterile Petri dishes and regenerated on hormone-free MS medium. Plantlets with well-developed shoots and roots were obtained within 5-6 mo of culturing of IEST. The SEm-derived plants were morphologically normal and fertile. Various parameters thought to be responsible for efficient regeneration of soybean through somatic embryogenesis are discussed. To our knowledge, this is the first report to employ IEST as expiants for successful direct somatic embryogenesis in soybean.
20461603|Using the system for genetic transformation and transgenic plant regeneration via somatic embryogenesis (SE) of Lycium barbarum established in this laboratory, this study reports the optimization of the factors affecting the efficiency of transformation, including pre-culture period, leaf explant source, use of acetosyringone, strains and density of Agrobacterium, and temperature of co-cultivation. The optimized transformation protocol for L. barbarum included pre-culture of leaf explants from 3-wk-old seedlings for 3 d on the medium for callus induction followed by inoculation with Agrobacterium strain EHA101 (pIG121Hm), co-cultivation for 3 d at 24C, and transfer to the selection regeneration medium with 50 mg l kanamycin (Kan). Using this protocol, 65% L. barbarum explants gave rise to Kan-resistant and GUS-positive calli. In addition, the expression of introduced transgene (npt II) in clonal progeny was verified by formation of calli and somatic embryos from leaf segments of nine transgenic plants grown on the Kan-containing medium. All explants formed calli at 50 mg l Kan and seven out of nine transgenic plants were found to possess callus-forming capacity even at 100 mg l Kan. These calli also possessed higher SE potential on SE medium supplemented with 25 mg l Kan.
4293011|Recent studies on de novo meristemoid induction and subsequent shoot organogenesis in vitro in seed plants are reviewed, largely from a developmental perspective. Emphasis is placed on experimental studies which explore the timing and extent of relatively "cryptic" developmental states and in particular, shoot determination. This state has been measured in some relative detail in explants of both Convolvulus and in cotyledons of white pine. Precise evidence in vitro is generally lacking, although promeristemoid precursors of meristemoids have been found recently in conifers. No clear picture of gene expression associated with meristemoid induction or shoot apical meristem formation is possible as yet. The data on developmental states suggest that gene expression before overt organogenesis may well be more complex than previously imagined.
4293526|The Arabidopsis ecotypes Columbia (Col), Landsberg erecta (Ler), Cape Verde Island (Cvi) and Wassilewskija (WS) have been tested for their regeneration response in vitro. A characteristic morphology of leaf-derived calluses has been found for each ecotype. Differences in regeneration ability have been detected depending on the plant strain, the explant source and on the culture medium composition. In CIR/SIR media, which contain
23254892|The influence of low-temperature treatment of ovaries on the isolation and subsequent culture of two-celled proembryo in vitro was explored in tobacco. The efficiency of isolation of two-celled proembryos was significantly improved, by an average of 23.47 % after treatment of ovaries at 4C for 524 h. Cell viability and polarity of two-celled proembryos, as assessed by organelle distribution, growth pattern, and cell wall component distribution, were all well maintained after cold treatment. Furthermore, in vitro cultivated two-celled proembryos divided normally, with timing paralleling that of two-celled proembryos isolated from fresh ovaries. Unexpectedly, the division frequency of two-celled proembryos was significantly improved by cold treatment. These results demonstrate that low-temperature treatment of tobacco ovaries was beneficial for two-celled proembryo manipulation in vitro, by not only improving isolation efficiency but also by promoting cell division and improving the potential for further cultivation.
4293462|2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) resistant plants of transgenic cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) were produced using Agrobacterium tumefaciens containing a plasmid carrying the neomycin phosphotransferase II (npt II) and 2,4-D monooxygenase (tfd A) genes. An in vitro assay was performed to determine the sensitivity of seed germination, and the growth of seedlings of transgenic and non-transgenic cotton to various concentrations of kanamycin and 2,4-D. The results indicated that kanamycin caused the cotyledons of non-transgenic plants to turn white, but transgenic plants grew normally. Seed germination and seedling growth of non-transgenic plants were strongly inhibited by 2,4-D, but only slightly for transgenic plants. Transgenic plants and non-transgenic plants can be clearly distinguished by the use of
40793215|Thevetia peruviana is a small tree that produces several compounds with pharmaceutical application, among which peruvoside could be highlighted. However, these compounds are produced in low concentration in the plant, making it important to develop strategies such as plant cell culture and elicitation to obtain higher quantities of the desired product. In this work, cell suspension cultures of T. peruviana were established in four different culture media: Murashige-Skoog (MS), half Murashige-Skoog (half MS), Schenk-Hildebrandt (SH), and Gamborg (B5) to study their effect on cell growth. Cell growth kinetics were studied in SH medium, and the extracellular peruvoside production during the culture time was determined. The best culture medium for the establishment of cell suspension cultures was MS with a growth index of 3.17  0.2 g g inoculum. The cell growth kinetics showed the four characteristic growth phases of a cell culture (lag, exponential, stationary, and death), and during none of these phases was it possible to observe peruvoside production. The elicitor effect of methyljasmonate (MeJ) was studied in cell suspension cultures established in SH medium. The effect of MeJ concentration and the time in which it should be applied were determined. The best results were obtained at a concentration of 100 mg 1 of MeJ applied at the beginning of the culture, which induced a peruvoside production of 8.93 mg 1 medium. The current results are the first report of an in vitro peruvoside production system.
24596333|The efficiency of micropropagation of double-node shoots of hop (Humulus lupulus L. cv. Tettnanger) was evaluated using semi-solid and liquid culture medium in RITA temporary immersion bioreactors. The highest fresh and dry weight of shoots, average number of shoots, and multiplication rate were obtained using the RITA system, whereas the longest shoots were obtained on semi-solid medium. Moreover, shoot length was affected significantly by the inoculum density of double-node shoots in RITA vessels. In addition, the RITA bioreactors were suitable for shoot induction from organogenic calli. The percentage of shoot induction and the shoot fresh and dry weights were significantly higher in the RITA system than in semi-solid medium. The age of organogenic calli and inoculum density significantly affected the induction of shoots from organogenic calli. The optimum conditions for DNA delivery into hop organogenic calli using the biolistic particle delivery system were also determined. Organogenic calli were bombarded with the plasmid pSR5-2 (gusA and nptII) varying helium pressure (900, 1,100, or 1,350 psi) and target distance (6, 9, or 12 cm). The highest gusA transient activity was obtained using a pressure of 900 psi and a target distance of 6 cm. For stable genetic transformation, 3-wk-old organogenic calli were bombarded with the plasmid pCAMBIA1303 (gusA, mgfp5, and hpt) using these optimum conditions. Stable gusA expression was observed in organogenic calli and shoots after 4 wk of culture on selection medium containing 2.5 mg 1 hygromycin. The presence of the mgfp5 gene in the hop genome was confirmed by PCR.
20064988|The most important advantage of cloning conifers by somatic embryogenesis (SE) is that the embryogenic tissue can be cryopreserved without changing its genetic make-up and without loss of juvenility. This offers an opportunity to develop high-value clonal varieties by defrosting and repropagating cryopreserved clones after genetic testing has shown which clones are the best performers. In the current absence of cost-effective automated embling handling systems or artificial seed technology, the deployment of the high-value clones in clonal forestry can be achieved inexpensively by mass serial rooting of cuttings from juvenile donor plants produced from cryopreserved embryogenic cultures. In a genetic analysis of the SE process in white spruce Picea glauca, we found that induction of SE was under strong genetic control. Although the dominance variance diminished rapidly as the zygotic embryos matured, the additive variance remained relatively large during the induction phase. The genetic effects in the subsequent maturation and germination phases were less strong. Furthermore, genetic variation at the different phases of SE was not correlated. Thus, it is the induction phase of SE that can be manipulated by breeding. Most of the embryogenic clones were cryopreserved easily, i.e., there was no apparent genotype effect. To determine stability of cryopreserved clones, a set of 12 clones was retrieved after 3 and 4 years, respectively, from cryopreservation and repropagated by SE. An assessment of morphological in vitro development and ex vitro survival and growth characters demonstrated general stability of the cryopreserved clones of white spruce.
4293068|The body and closure device of a tissue culture container are of paramount importance in the determination of the headspace composition, and influence plant growth and development. In fact, the container determines gas exchange with the environment quantitatively and qualitatively. When exchange occurred via permeability, we demonstrated that a properly controlled container atmosphere (CA) cannot be obtained because accumulation and/or depletion of gases occur; modified atmosphere (MA) is then a better term. Our experiments also gave information about a) gas exchange mechanisms and b) the influence of headspace composition on plant growth and development. These are prerequisites for the understanding and final control of the headspace composition. Three containers, differing in their gas exchange mechanism, were evaluated. This paper also considered that even under "controlled" culture conditions (container, environment, explant weight, etc.) variations from container to container are registered, probably due to the explant itself.
20461560|Successful lettuce (Lactuca sativa L.) breeding requires assessment, selection, and rescue of germplasm from field-grown plants during a limited period of time. Tissue culture methods have proved successful in rescuing selected lettuce genotypes and producing seeds in a disease-free environment. The present study was conducted to determine the response of the apical and axillary shoot-tips of lettuce to storage duration prior to in vitro culture. The study focused on core length as a source of variation between maternal explants. Advanced maturity was obtained by applying an agrotextile row cover over lettuce plants. Apical and axillary buds were derived from covered lettuce with long cores (46  0.8 mm) and from non-covered lettuce with short cores (30  0.7 mm). The cores were stored at 2C for 0, 2, or 13 d. Apical and axillary shoot-tips were removed from the cores and placed onto MS medium. After 3 mo. of growth culture, twice as many leaf primordia (6.6 leaves) developed from the apical shoot-tip as compared to those from the axillary shoot-tip (3.0 leaves). More shoot-tips survived when excised from short cores (83%) than when excised from long cores (71%). Root formation was affected by the source of shoot-tip and the size of donor explant. Three times more explants from apical shoot-tips and short cores rooted (71%) than did explants from apical shoot-tips and long cores (27%) or explants from axillary shoot-tips (long cores, 14%; short cores, 19%). Storage of cores for up to 13 d had no effect on the survival rate of shoot-tips, nor on shoot or root formation, suggesting that cores of lettuce plants can be stored prior to in vitro micropropagation without significant loss of regeneration efficiency.
25623022|Including lipoic acid (LA) in culture media during Agrobacterium transformation processes of four crop species has significantly improved the transformation methods of the crops, even for previously recalcitrant genotypes. Plant transformation efficiency of soybean was significantly increased from 0.6% to 3.7% and tomato from 29.8% to 87.0%. Transformation efficiency was doubled from 2.8% to 5.7% in wheat. The frequency of glyphosateresistant embryos had a significant increase from 41.4% to 61.2% in cotton. Regeneration of non-transgenic shoots under selection ("shoot escapes") was significantly reduced in tomato from 91.5% to 46.2% while in soybean from 92.0% to 72.0% under optimal conditions. This study also demonstrated that the increase of transformation efficiency in tomato was accompanied by as much as a significant 2-fold reduction in severity of browning of Agrobacterium-infected plant tissues and up to a significant 3-fold increase in the percentage of explants with a high level of transient gene expression. LA application in plant transformation has enabled the resolution of three common problems in plant transformation: browning or necrosis of the transformed cells or tissues, difficulty in regenerating transformed cells or tissues, and shoot escapes, which severely limit the number of transgenic plants that can be regenerated.
4293293|Cell suspension cultures of Datura innoxia were incubated in the presence of the nitro-substituted explosives 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT), l,3,5-trinitro-l,3,5-triazine (RDX), and l,3,5,7-tetranitro-l,3,5,7-tetraazocyclooctane (HMX). Cellular tolerance levels and TNT biotransformation kinetics were examined. Tolerance to TNT varied as cell suspensions aged. Concentrations of RDX or HMX in excess of reported solubility limits produced no observable changes in cell viability. GC/MS analysis of TNT-treated cell media and cell lysates revealed rapid removal of TNT. Within 12 h, less than 1% of the initial TNT remained in the growth medium. Aminodinitrotoluenes (ADNTs), known metabolites of TNT, accumulated transiently in cell lysates, and to a lesser extent in cell media. ADNT concentrations started to decrease after 3 h. After 12 h, less than 5% of the initial TNT could be detected as ADNT. Total ADNTs never exceeded 26% of initial TNT, suggesting that additional biotransformation steps also occurred. No other nitroaromatics were detected. A pseudo-first order rate constant for TNT clearance was calculated,
20461578|The bromeliad Tillandsia eizii is a striking species with large, colorful, and persistent inflorescences that can reach 1 m in length. The value of this plant as an ornamental and its importance in cultural and religious activities has led to its over-collection in the wild. Clonal propagation via tissue culture may be a means to repopulate native stands while meeting the demands for this species as an ornamental and ceremonial plant. Adventitious bud proliferation was induced from axenically germinated seedling material. Parameters evaluated were the age of explant material at the time of transfer onto bud-induction medium, the concentration of plant growth regulators, and the period of exposure to induction medium. Light and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) established the origin and development of buds. Twelve-week-old seedling explants rapidly initiated adventitious buds after a 30-d induction period on shoot-initiation medium. Adventitious buds were induced in 40% of the explants placed on media with 2 mg l 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) (8.88 M) plus 0.1 mg l -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) (0.54 M) with some cultures becoming highly prolific after repeated subculture. Shoots elongated in proliferating cultures, and plants were successfully acclimatized and planted into the greenhouse. The results indicate that tissue culture may be used as a means to propagate this epiphytic bromeliad species, which is being seriously affected by deforestation and habitat destruction. In addition, adventitious bud proliferation can provide a means to propagate superior genotypes.
4293628|The hormone-stimulated and growth-related cell surface hydroquinone (NADH) oxidase activity of etiolated hypocotyls of soybeans oscillates with a period of about 24 min or 60 times per 24-h day. Plasma membranes of soybean hypocotyls contain two such NADH oxidase activities that have been resolved by purification on concanavalin A columns. One in the apparent molecular weight range of 14-17kDa is stimulated by the auxin herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). The other is larger and unaffected by 2,4-D. The 2,4-D-stimulated activity absolutely requires 2,4-D for activity and exhibits a period length of about 24 min. Also exhibiting 24-min oscillations is the rate of cell enlargement induced by the addition of 2,4-D or the natural auxin indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Immediately following 2,4-D or IAA addition, a very complex pattern of oscillations is frequently observed. However, after several hours a dominant 24-min period emerges at the expense of the constitutive activity. A recruitment process analogous to that exhibited by prions is postulated to explain this behavior.
4293887| Sugarcane (Saccharum spp. hybrid cv. CP 84-1198) seeds were germinated on modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium alone or supplemented with 2.3, 4.5, 11.3, 22.5, and 45.0 M thidiazuron (TDZ), or 4.5, 13.6, 22.6, and 45.0 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), or 4.1, 12.4, 20.7, and 41.3 M picloram. Both auxins delayed seed germination by approximately 5 d. Maximum germination was observed on MS medium supplemented with 45.0 M TDZ. Callus induction occurred for seed germinated on 2,4-D and picloram-containing media, but not on TDZ medium. The greatest amount of callus (554  198 mg per seed) was produced on 4.1 M picloram. For shoot initiation, calluses were transferred to MS medium alone or supplemented with 2.5 M TDZ. The highest number of shoots was recorded on TDZ medium from callus that had been obtained originally from media containing either 4.1 or 12.4 M picloram or 13.6 M 2,4-D (~500). All shoots developed roots and grew to maturity on medium with 24.6 M indolebutyric acid. 
20065024|Little is known about the genetic basis and molecular mechanisms regulating female gametogenesis in flowering plants. In many species sexuality is replaced by apomixis, a method of asexual reproduction that circumvents female meiosis and fertilization, and culminates in the formation of clonal seeds. Using a new generation of transposon-based insertional mutagenesis strategies and their resulting molecular tools, we are investigating how female meiotically derived cells (megaspores) acquire their identity. We are also determining their function and interactions, and attempting the induction of apomixis initiation in the ovule of Arabidopsis. This basic knowledge will contribute to establish the transfer of apomixis into sexual crops, a major challenge faced by plant biotechnology. The introduction of apomixis as a reproductive alternative could represent a unique opportunity to simplify breeding schemes and genetically perpetuate any desired heterozygous genotype, including hybrids.
4293871| Applications of biotechnological tools, including genetic modification aimed at combating Dutch elm disease, are described. In vitro shoot cultures of Ulmus procera (English elm) SR4, U. glabra, U. americana, and U. parvifolia have been established and used as source material in genetic transfer experiments. Biolistic transformation of U. procera leaf material with cauliflower mosaic virus 35S-promoted constructs resulted in transient gusA (-glucuronidase) expression. Subsequently, regenerant U. procera have been obtained following transformation of stem pieces with wild-type tumor-inducing or root-inducing plasmid-harboring Agrobacterium strains. Genetically modified elms expressing gusA, gfp (green fluorescent protein), and nptII (neomycin phosphotransferase II) genes have been produced using disarmed vectors. Regenerant English elms have been produced following transformation with anti-fungal genes, transferred to soil, and are currently being tested for their ability to resist the Dutch elm disease fungus Ophiostoma novo-ulmi. Future prospects for fighting this fungal wilt using biotechnological tools are discussed. 
20461755|Plant cell culture provides an alternative means for producing secondary metabolites. In this study, experiments were carried out to study the impact of several parameters, independently and in combination, on the stimulation of menthol production in the cell suspension culture of Mentha piperita. Callus was obtained from leaf segments of in vitro grown plantlets on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 0.2 mg l of 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid to initiate cell suspension culture. This culture was maintained in half-strength MS medium supplemented with 0.2 mg l of 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid at 15 d interval and used for further studies. Precursor feeding alone, i.e., menthone, at 35 M concentration showed slightly improved productivity. -Cyclodextrin alone at 60 M concentration and in combination with menthone feeding at 35 M increased menthol yield up to 92 and 110 mg l in comparison to 77 mg l of control culture. Synergistic potentiation effect of menthone feeding at 35 M and -cyclodextrin at 60 M treatment followed by in situ adsorption with RP-8 also showed potential stimulation of menthol production in M. piperita cell culture. Fungal elicitor treatment showed enhanced production level up to 140.8 mg l in comparison to that of control. Further studies were carried out with the establishment of Agrobacterium tumefaciens (Ach5) gall-mediated calli, and consequently, cell suspension culture and results showed the significant enhancement of menthol yield up to 278 mg l.
42568717|Sandalwood (Santalum album L.) is a small evergreen, hemi-parasitic tree having more than 18 woody species that are mostly distributed in South Asia, Australia, and Hawaii. Its economical importance is derived from its heartwood oil, but its difficult propagation makes conservation essential. The percentage of seed germination is poor and germination time exceeds 12 mo. Vegetative propagation can be accomplished by grafting, air layering, or with root suckers, but the production of clones is inefficient and time consuming. In this study, efficient plant regeneration was achieved via indirect organognesis from callus cultures derived from leaf tissues of S. album. Callus induction was induced when leaf expiants were cultured on woody plant media (WPM) supplemented with either thidiazuron (TDZ) or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. The highest callus frequency (100%) was obtained when leaf tissue was cultured in the medium with 0.4 mgl TDZ. Fresh weight (141.92 mg) and dry weight (47 mg) of leaf-derived callus were highest in the medium supplemented with 0.8 mgl TDZ. The WPM medium supplemented with 2.5 mgl BA+0.4 mgl NAA was the most effective, producing the highest number of shoot buds (24.6) per callus. The highest number of shoots per expiant (20.67) and shoot length (5.17 cm) were observed in media supplemented with 5.0 mgl BA and 3.0 mgl Kn, respectively. Plantlets were rooted on WPM medium with different concentrations of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). The highest rooting percentage (91.67) and survival were achieved using WPM media with 1.5 mgl IBA. All plantlets survived acclimatization, producing healthy plants in the greenhouse. The current investigation showed efficient in vitro regeneration capabilities of S. album from leaf explants.
41432446|Soybean somatic embryos were developed as a model for investigating the developmental relationships of lipid biosynthesis and accumulation in this important crop. Batch cultures of embryos grown for 8 wk in liquid culture medium exhibited typical sigmoidal growth kinetics as they passed through characteristic globular, heart, torpedo, and cotyledon stages. Exponential growth occurred for the first 4 wk in culture with net growth terminating when total embryo fresh weight per culture flask reached a maximum of 4-4.5 g at 6 wk. This was followed by a slight decrease in embryo fresh weight (FW) and the onset of apparent tissue senescence as judged by yellowing and browning of embryos. On a FW basis, embryos accumulated up to 4% protein, 2.5% soluble sugars, 1.9% starch, and 1.5% lipid relatively early in development. Levels decreased to 0.8% protein, 0.5% soluble sugars, 0.03% starch, and 0.09% lipid at the end of the culture period. On a mass percent basis, lipid extracts were comprised of approximately 80-90% polar lipid early in embryo development. This shifted to 56% storage lipid (triacylglycerol) and 44% polar lipid after 4-5 wk in culture and then reverted back to 91% and 9% polar vs. storage lipid, respectively, by the end of the 8-wk culture period. On the average, polar and storage lipid fractions were comprised of 24% palmitic acid, 7% stearic acid, 8% oleic acid, 36% linoleic acid, and 26% linolenic acid. However, the amounts of linoleic and linolenic acids declined sharply during embryo senescence at the end of the culture period, with corresponding increases in the combined amounts of palmitic and stearic acids. This is the first report that documents the progress of storage reserve accumulation in soybean somatic embryos in relation to their continuous growth in liquid batch cultures.
4293529|Somatic meiosis-like reduction was observed in some cells of the embryogenic callus of Arabidopsis thaliana. Two types were identified. One type was somatic chromosome reductional grouping, in which the chromosomes in a cell were separated directly at either prophase or metaphase. Chromosome reductional grouping happened more frequently in polyploid cells, and the morphology of the chromosomes did not show the role of the spindle fibers. The other type was somatic meiosis which was analogous to the process of gametogenesis, characterized by the pairing and synapsis of homologous chromosomes. The roles of somatic meiosis-like reduction in somatic embryogenesis and somaclonal variations are discussed.
20461610|Translational genomics is defined as the application of molecular-genetic principles derived from model systems to species of experimental or economic interest. The past 20 years of research in plant model systems such as Arabidopsis thaliana have relinquished vast amounts of information regarding gene function, the integration of genetic components into pathways, and the interrelationships between pathways to control form and function in plants and plant-products alike. At present, the challenge is to relate these paradigms to other species of economic or scientific interest. Apart from being an important and valuable crop, strawberry (Fragaria spp.) is a member of the Rosaceae, a plant family containing fruit, nut, ornamental and wood-bearing species. Strawberry is unique within the Rosaceae in that it is a rapidly growing herbaceous perennial with a small genome and the ability to thrive in a laboratory setting. Strawberry species may also be transformed and regenerated in a time scale of weeks or months instead of years. For these reasons, strawberry has been recognized as the translational genomics model for the Rosaceae family. This review summarizes and synthesizes the technical reports of strawberry regeneration and transformation, consolidating the large body of information regarding genetic modification of this important genus.
4293347|The anatomy of normal and hyperhydric in vitro shoots and leaves from micropropagated Simmondsia chinensis (Link.) Schn, (jojoba) was compared with that of seedlings (control plants). In vitro normal plantlets displayed good development and survived during the acclimatization stage. In vitro hyperhydric plantlets presented numerous anatomical defects, such as hypertrophy of the mesophyll and of the stem cortex, malformed non-functional stomata, epidermal discontinuity, and xylem hypolignification; they did not survive acclimatization. The study of the anatomical features of in vitro jojoba shoots and leaves allowed determination of the structural condition of the plantlets and prediction of which plantlet would survive the critical acclimatization stage.
42568718|The Cucumis melo L. inodorus honeydew melon variant is one of the most consumed melons in the USA, and has important commercial and nutritional value. There is a need for improvement of several genetic traits in the US honeydew melon, such as nutrition, drought tolerance, and disease resistance. We investigated the existing regeneration media and optimized the medium composition for an elite honeydew diploid breeding line, "150", using cotyledonary expiants. Four combinations of three different plant growth regulators, 6-benzyladenine, abscisic acid, and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), were tested in the shoot regeneration media. The presence of IAA in the medium caused the cotyledon expiants to curl away from the medium, which made antibiotic selection problematic in our previous study. Omission of IAA from the culture media eliminated this problem and did not impact the shoot regeneration capacity of the cotyledonary expiants. We also estimated the ploidy of regenerated plants using flow cytometry, and 50-60% were found to be polyploid (tetraploid or mixoploid). However, contrary to other studies, these polyploid plants did not show major morphological differences compared to the diploid plants.
40793161|Regrowth of plants after cryopreservation varies, and resulting regrowth ranges from poor to excellent. Oxidative stress is a potential cause of damage in plant tissues. Antioxidants and anti-stress compounds may improve regrowth by preventing or repairing the damage. Lipoic acid (LA), glutathione (GSH), glycine betaine (GB), and polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) were tested during cryopreservation of shoot tips using the plant vitrification solution 2 (PVS2) protocol. Two in vitro-grown blackberry cultivars were cold acclimated and then cryopreserved in liquid nitrogen (LN). The antioxidant and anti-stress compounds were added at four critical steps of the protocol: pretreatment, loading, rinsing, and regrowth. Three out of the four compounds significantly improved regrowth of cryopreserved shoot tips. Regrowth ranged from 40% to 50% for controls to > 80% for treated shoot tips. LA (4-8 mM) produced high regrowth at pretreatment, loading, and rinsing for 'Chehalem' and at all steps for 'Hull Thornless'. Recovery improved at all steps with GSH (0.16 mM) and GB (10 mM). PVP had a neutral or negative impact on regrowth. Overall addition of LA, GSH, and GB improved regrowth by ~25% over the shoot tips cryopreserved using the regular PVS2 protocol (control). This study shows that adding non-vitamin antioxidants and anti-stress compounds during the PVS2-vitrification protocol improves regrowth of shoot cultures following cryopreservation. We recommend inclusion of antioxidants as part of standard cryopreservation protocols.
4293126|Expiants of axillary buds excised from mature adult stems of Swainsona formosa (G. Don) J. Thompson (syn. Clianthus formosus) were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with a range of auxins, cytokinins, and sucrose concentrations. Auxins did not increase shoot or bud numbers above controls, and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid was the only auxin to significantly increase callus production. Benzyladenine or thidiazuron incorporated into the medium at
4293369| The protocol currently used to cryopreserve Pinus patula embryogenic tissue was investigated in an attempt to improve and optimize the recovery of tissue. This investigation describes two aspects that influence tissue recovery after cryopreservation: (i) the effects of precooling tissue prior to immersion into liquid nitrogen; and (ii) whether the choice of supports onto which the recovered tissue is suspended improved the recovery rate. Results indicated that precooling tissue to -70C prior to immersion into liquid nitrogen was superior to precooling to -30C or direct immersion in liquid nitrogen (-196C). Tissue recovery improved when polyester grids were used as supports, and was slowest on filter paper supports. 
20064934|Treatments differing from each other for the type of tube closure (i.e., cotton plug for free gas exchange, airtight rubber cap, and rubber cap with ethysorb) and/or rooting culture medium (i.e., enriched or not by 25 to 100 M acetylsalicylic acid) were compared for their effects on gaseous composition of the culture atmosphere and microcutting rooting of the GF 677 (Prunus persica  Prunus amygdalus) hybrid. Rubber capping, which leads to rapid ethylene accumulation inside tubes, strongly reduced rooting time and in some cases enhanced final rooting percentage over that of cotton plugs. Ethysorb almost completely absorbed ethylene produced by shoots, which showed lower rooting percentages within 9 d than microcuttings cultured in the absence of ethysorb. In contrast, no significant difference in rooting was found between the two treatments after 14 d. Carbon dioxide concentration was similar in all treatments within 5 to 9 d and seemed to be ineffective for rooting. The influence of acetylsalicylic acid on rooting was unclear. Root number and length were not significantly influenced by the treatments. These results demonstrate that the use of airtight closures, leading to rapid ethylene accumulation, can reduce time of rooting expressions for GF 677 microcuttings. However, free gas exchange towards the end of the rooting period (from Day 9 to Day 14) is advisable to prevent leaf yellowing. No significant difference in plantlet survival and growth after transfer ex vitro was found among treatments.
25623014|Two protocols were developed for the efficient regeneration of Sinningia speciosa from leaf explants via two developmental pathways. The first method involved formation of callus and buds, followed by subsequent root growth, in Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) containing 2.0 mg l 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 0.2 mg l -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA), with a regeneration efficiency of 99.0%. The second method involved producing callus and roots, followed by subsequent formation of buds, in MS medium supplemented with 1.0-5.0 mg l NAA, and resulted in a regeneration efficiency of 90.4%. Our experiments indicate that the root-first pathway resulted in a lower plant regeneration efficiency. Through five continual generations using the buds-first method, a total of 215 regenerated plants were obtained in the last generation, and eight exhibited a phenotype we named tricussate whorled phyllotaxis (twp). Six of the regenerated twp variant plants maintained their tricussate whorled phyllotaxis phenotype, showing no other abnormalities, while one reverted to a wild type before flowering and another formed two rounds of sepals. Physiological analysis revealed that the twp plants responded differently than wild type to exogenous NAA and 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid (TIBA), while high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis showed that the levels of endogenous indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and gibberellin (GA) were lower in twp than wild-type plants. These results suggest that the formation of the twp mutant may be related to phytohormones and that the twp variant could be an important material for investigating the molecular mechanism of plant phyllotaxis patterning.
4293067|A number of different methods, involving direct DNA delivery are now available for plant transformation. Here we review the most recently developed technique which involves the mixing of silicon carbide whiskers with plant cells and plasmid DNA. Fertile transgenic plants have now been produced using whisker-mediated transformation, and this method can now be considered as a simple, inexpensive alternative for plant transformation. A brief review on transformation of animal cells and Chlamydomonas using whiskers technology is also included.
29736217|Transgenic plants of grapefruit (Citrus paradisi Macf.) cvs. 'Duncan', 'Flame', 'Marsh', and 'Ruby Red' were obtained using Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of seedling epicoty1 tissue. Two citrus tristeza virus (CTV)-derived candidate resistance genes: '392' (3' region of the p23 ORF plus 3' untranslated regionUTR) and 'p23 hairpin' (sense-p23 ORF plus UTR plus antisense-p23 ORE) were introduced into grapefruit using Agrobacterium strains EHA105 and EHA101, respectively. Epicoty1 explants from 1-mo.-old in vitro etiolated seedlings were incubated in bacterial suspension. Green shoots that formed on explants after 4-5 wk after bacterial incubation were tested for the presence of the GUS gene by histochemical analysis. The percentage of GUS-positive shoots and transformation efficiency was 30.33.3% and 3.5% for treatment with EHA101 and 15.31.7% and 1.3% for treatment with EHA105. GUS-positive shoots were micrografted onto Carrizo citrange (Citrus sinensis L. Osbeck  Poncirus trifoliata L. Raf.) seedling rootstocks, and the presence of transgene sequences in these plants was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), Southern blot, and reverse transcription PCR analyses. Resulting transgenic grapefruit plants were challenged with CTV and tobacco mosaic virus using a protoplast challenge assay as an initial screen to determine the effects of the transgenes on virus replication. Although complete RNA-mediated resistance was not achieved, preliminary results showed that 5.2% of the recovered transgenic plants containing the '392' CTV-derived sequence repeatedly exhibited reduced CTV replication in protoplasts. These plants are being further evaluated using the traditional method of virus inoculation followed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
4292962|An F
4293673|Factors influencing the Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of both monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plant species have been widely investigated. These factors include manipulating Agrobacterium strains and plasmids, growth conditions for vir gene induction, plant genotype, inoculation and co-culture conditions, and the selection agents and their application regime. We report here a novel physical parameter during co-culture, desiccation of plant cells or tissues post-Agrobacterium infection, which greatly enhances transfer DNA (T-DNA) delivery and increases stable transformation efficiency in wheat. Desiccation during co-culture dramatically suppressed Agrobacterium growth, which is one of the factors known to favor plant cell recovery. Osmotic and abscisic acid treatments and desiccation prior to inoculation did not have the same enhancement effect as desiccation during co-culture on T-DNA delivery in wheat. An efficient transformation protocol has been developed based on desiccation and is suitable for both paromomycin and glyphosate selection. Southern analysis showed approximately 67% of transgenic wheat plants received a single copy of the transgene.
4293397| A simple and efficient method for multiple shoot induction and proliferation was achieved in six Indian cotton cultivars from the pre-existing meristems of 21-d-old in vitro-grown seedlings. Combinations of naphthalene acetic acid (0.3-10.7 M) and 6-benzylaminopurine (BA; 2.2 or 4.4 M) were used for induction of shoots. The shoots proliferated and were maintained on MS (Murashige and Skoog) medium supplemented with 4.4 M BA. Simultaneous elongation of shoots was obtained in the same medium. Optimum multiplication was observed in cv. LRK-516 (19.7  4.6), in cotyledonary nodes isolated from the adjoining node and cultured individually in 250 ml flasks. This indicates lateral inhibition of adjoining meristems. A positive influence of culture flasks as opposed to test tubes on the proliferation of multiple shoots was observed in all six cultivars tested. The morphogenic response varied with genotype and the nature of explants. Rooting of elongated shoots was achieved on MS medium devoid of growth regulators. The plantlets were transferred to the field after hardening in the greenhouse. All plants flowered and formed bolls on maturity. 
20461627|A protocol was developed for rapid clonal propagation of the important medicinal climber, Tinospora cordifolia, through in vitro culture of mature nodal explants. Shoots were initiated on both Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium and woody plant medium (WPM) supplemented with 2.32 M kinetin (KIN). Of the two basal media tested, WPM was found to be superior to MS medium for the induction of multiple shoots. Among the cytokinins tested, N-benzyladenine (BA) was more effective than KIN for axillary shoot proliferation. KIN was superior to BA in terms of shoot elongation. An average multiplication rate of 6.3 shoots per explant was obtained with WPM supplemented with 8.87 M BA. Shoot clumps harvested from this medium were transferred to WPM supplemented with 2.22 M BA and 4.65 M KIN for shoot elongation. Elongated shoots were rooted in half-strength MS medium supplemented with 2.85 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Rooted plantlets were successfully transferred to sand and established with 80% survival.
25623034|Gentiana straminea Maxim. (MahuaQinjiao) is an important Chinese medicinal herb that is rich in secoiridoids. To increase the production of this plant, we have developed an efficient tissue culture system for high-frequency plant regeneration. We have also obtained plants with high secoiridoid monomer production through tissue culture and somatic embryogenesis. We have found that the MB medium is better than the B5 medium for callus induction. Calluses induced from immature seeds are superior to those from hypocotyls or young leaves in regeneration via somatic embryogenesis. We have also demonstrated that 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid is efficient for both callus induction and embryogenesis, indole-3-acetic acid is suitable for embryogenic callus proliferation, and N-(benzyl)-adenine promotes both embryo development and the accumulation of gentiopicroside in the cultures. Regenerated plants have been selected for high gentiopicroside content. One plant contains 5.82% of gentiopicroside, which is higher than the control plants (1.20-3.73%). The regenerated plants are genetically more stable than the calluses based on both cytological and random amplified polymorphic DNA analyses.
29736158|Plant regeneration through direct somatic embryogenesis was achieved from root segments derived from in vitro shoots of Rauvolfia micrantha Hook. f. (Apocynaceae) grown for 6 wk in half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 3% sucrose, 100 mgl myo-inositol, and 0.5 mgl -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The effects of photoperiod and plant growth regulators (PGRs) in half-strength MS medium were studied for the rapid and maximum induction of somatic embryos. The characteristic globular or heart-shaped stages of somatic embryogenesis were not found and cotyledonary state embryos occasionally appeared without the intervention of callus in total darkness and 16-h photoperiod. Root segments cultured in the medium containing 0.1 mg NAA and 0.2 mgl 6-benzyladenine (BA) under 16-h photoperiod showed the maximum frequency (39%) of embryogenesis. the frequency of embryo formation was increased to 63% when they were cultured in medium with 0.1 mgl BA in the dark for 4wk, then grown under the 16-h photoperiod. Explants with developing embryos developed into plants after transfer to half-strength MS medium supplemented with 0.1 mgl BA and 0.05 mgl NAA. The well-developed plants were hardended and most plants (80%) survived and were phenotypically similar to the mother plants.
20064992|The uncommon polyamines, norspermidine and norspermine, were detected in maize in vitro cultures of three different genotypes. The common polyamines, spermidine and spermine, along with the diamine, putrescine, were also observed. The total amounts of the uncommon polyamines, norspermidine and norspermine, were comparable to the total amounts of the common polyamines, spermidine and spermine, in the maize tissues. The titer for norspermidine was 6- to 15-fold greater than that of its common counterpart (spermidine) in the three genotypes. Norspermidine was the predominant polyamine among all triamines and tetramines detected in cell cultures of two of the three genotypes of maize examined and was predominant along with spermine in the third genotype. Enzyme assays performed with extracts from callus of one of the genotypes suggested a likely mechanism to account for the biosynthesis of the uncommon polyamines in cultured maize cells, through the actions of putrescine aminopropyltransferase, polyamine oxidase, and Schiff-base reductase/decarboxylase enzyme activities. This is the first report of the detection of uncommon polyamines in maize tissues, as well as the first report of these uncommon polyamines in a monocotyledonous plant.
23255665|We have obtained transgenic plants of Nicotiana sylvestris expressing an arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (AANAT) gene and a hydroxyindole-O-methyltransferase (HIOMT) gene using Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. Both AANAT and HIOMT are key enzymes in melatonin synthesis. Transgenic plants of N. sylvestris were characterized by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and reverse transcription PCR analyses. The content of melatonin was significantly higher in transgenic plants than in nontransgenic plants. The highest melatonin content of transgenic plant leaves reached 50.4 g/g dry weight, while almost no melatonin could be detected in the nontransformed plants. To investigate effects of the expression of the AANAT and HIOMT genes on melatonin function in plants, isolated protoplasts of N. sylvestris were exposed to ultraviolet (UV)-B radiation for different durations. DNA damage was evaluated by single-cell gel electrophoresis, which showed that the TailDNA percentage value in transgenic protoplasts was lower than that in the nontransformed protoplasts in the range of 030 s of UV-B radiation. DNA damage caused by UV-B was therefore reduced in transgenic N. sylvestris plants.
41432840|In vitro propagation has played a key role for obtaining large numbers of virus free, homogenous plants, and for breeding of plantains and bananas (Musa spp.).Explant sources utilized for banana micropropagation include suckers, shoot tips, and floral buds. The present study employed male floral meristems as expiant material for micropropagation of hill banana ecotypes (AAB) 'Virupakshi' and ' Sirumalai.' Immature male floral buds were collected from healthy plants from hill banana growing areas. Exposure of explants to ethyl alcohol (70%, v/v) for 30 s, then mercuric chloride (0.1%, w/v) for 30 s, followed by three independent rinses of 5 min each in autoclaved, double-distilled water satisfactorily reduced the contamination. Male floral bud explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with different combinations of 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP), coconut water, naphthaleneacetic acid, gibberellic acid, and additional supplements. MS medium supplemented with 5 mg 1 BAP and coconut water (15%) was the most efficient media for shoot initiation and multiple shoot formation (15 shoots from a single part of a floral bud). The best response for shoot elongation was obtained using the combination of basal MS, 5 mg 1;BAP, 1 mg 1 naphthaleneacetic acid and 1.5 mg1 gibberellic acid.Regenerated shoots were rooted in basal MS medium within 15-20 d. The rooted plantlets were transferred to a soil mixture and maintained at a temperature of 252C for 10 d and then at room temperature (30-32C) for 2 wk, before transferring to a greenhouse. The regenerated plantlets showed 100% survival.
4293885|The present study discusses the results of cytological studies of two kinds of sugar beet callus, i.e., embryogenic and non-embryogenic tissues. The calluses were produced through culture of secondary leaves on Murashige and Skoog medium containing two hormone combinations. One week after transfer of calluses onto fresh medium, their cells were viewed using electron microscopy and an image analyzer. Observations showed that cells of the two callus types had considerable differences in cell structure and various organelles. Of note were the high amount of polyploidization, rough endoplasmic reticulum, polysome, poly-nucleolus, and incomplete cell wall together with abnormal partitioning in non-embryogenic cells, as compared to embryogenic cells. In contrast, vacuolation of cytoplasm, perfect cell wall and partitioning structure, and the high proportion of nucleus/cytoplasm area were recognized in embryogenic cells.
23326893|A protocol was developed for micropropagation of Mandevilla moricandiana (A.DC.) Woodson, a native plant from Brazil. Shoots, obtained from in vitro plantlets were used as source of nodal segments for shoot production from axillary buds. The nodal segments were grown on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with different concentrations of 6-benzyladenine and/or indole-3-acetic acid to induce axillary bud elongation. After a 2-mo culture period, the medium supplemented with 1.0 mgL -1 6-benzyladenine gave the largest number of nodal segments per explant. The nodal segments obtained from plants developed under these conditions were grown on medium supplemented with different concentrations indole-3-acetic acid, -naphthaleneacetic acid, and indole-3-butyric acid. The use of the medium supplemented with indole-3-acetic acid and indole-3-buryric induced shoot elongation and shoot development, formation of basal callus, and/or indirect organogenesis of roots. Following transfer of shoots to soil, the plants with only basal callus showed 10% survival and developed roots from callus, while in vitro-rooted plants had a maximum 40% survival rate ex vitro. Regardless of the auxin added to the rooting medium, the acclimatization period allowed the plants rooted in vitro to develop their shoots fully. The protocol developed here is suitable for the production of shoots and rooted plantlets of M. moricandiana.
20171600| Blackberry (Rubus spp.) cultivars Chester Thornless, Kotata, Marion, and Navaho were evaluated for morphogenic potential using the top one to four leaves from in vitro-grown shoots. In each experiment adventitious shoots were regenerated via organogenesis without an intervening callus phase. Rooting was spontaneous when shoots were transferred to a medium without growth regulators or with indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). Three gelling treatments (agar, Gelrite, and a combination) calibrated for equal gel firmness [110 g/(1.1 cm) ] did not affect explant regeneration or the number of shoots per explant, but did affect callus production. Significantly more callus (P  0.05) was induced on regeneration medium (RM) with 10 M N-benzyladenine (BA), 0.5 M IBA, and 0.19% Gelrite, than on medium containing either 0.71% agar, or the 0.35% agar/0.11% Gelrite combination. Explants on RM with 5 M IBA produced significantly more callus, but fewer shoots, compared to zero or 0.5 M IBA treatments for all gel treatments. Adding 200 mg l sequestrene iron [sodium ferric ethylene diamine di-(O-hydroxyphenylacetate)] at the first transfer onto RM induced more shoots per explant than the control, but did not influence the amount of callus produced. Sequestrene iron in the second transfer on RM significantly increased the regeneration (caulogenesis) frequency from 30 to 40% for 'Marion' and from 23 to 43% for 'Kotata'. Silver nitrate significantly reduced callus production for all treatments, but did not affect the frequency of caulogenesis or the number of shoots per explant. 
20461609|Investigations into the mechanisms of somatic embryogenesis (SE) have largely focused on the hormonal regulation of the process and a repertoire of strategies has been developed to regenerate many species via SE. However, the genes that regulate the induction and development of somatic embryos have not been defined. In the recent times, regeneration via overexpression of genes, such as WUSCHEL or LEAFY COTYLEDON, in Arabidopsis has started to provide a basis for understanding the genes involved in SE. This has gone hand in hand with the availability of genome sequence information and the availability of mutants in model plants such as Arabidopsis and Medicago. An improved understanding of zygotic embryogenesis and the maintenance and differentiation of stem cells in the shoot meristem also helps to provide novel insights into the mechanisms of SE. This review examines the current understanding of the genetic regulation of SE in the context of current molecular understanding of plant development.
20064986|Techniques for transforming intact tissues of cereals were evaluated for their efficacy in transforming immature embryos and Type II callus of maize (Zea mays L.). The techniques used were particle bombardment, tissue electroporation, tissue electrophoresis, and silicon carbide fibers. Each method was assessed in terms of transient -glucuronidase (GUS) expression. High levels of GUS expression were observed in A188 Type II callus using both tissue electroporation and particle bombardment, with means of 417.8 and 954.5 blue expression units (beu) per g fresh weight (FW) callus, respectively. Only particle bombardment resulted in high transient gene expression in immature embryos, with a mean transformation frequency of 34.8 b.e.u. per embryo. Very low levels of GUS expression were achieved with silicon carbide-mediated gene transfer, even when employing tissues used in the original publication (Black Mexican Sweet suspension cells). GUS expression was not obtained following tissue electrophoretic gene delivery.
4292931|Protoplasts of Nicotiana tabacum var. Xanthi were incubated with liposomes containing the plasmid plGVneo23 encoding kanamycin resistance. Transformed protoplasts and calli and plants derived from transformed protoplasts were treated with the demethylating agent 5-azacytidine. Three lines of evidence indicate that 5-azacytidine can increase NPTII activity in transformed cell lines and plants: a) Addition of azacytidine to the protoplast medium increased the proportion of kanamycin-resistant transformants recovered, b) NPT II activity could not be detected in approximately 50% of calli derived from transformed protoplasts although such calli grew slowly on medium containing kanamycin. Treatment of NPT-negative calli with 5-azacytidine restored detectable gene activity and increased the growth rate of the callus in the presence of kanamycin. c) Shoot tips regenerated from transformed calli were either NPT-positive or NPT-negative. When shoots were NPT-negative, treatment with 5-azacytidine restored detectable gene activity and improved growth in the presence of kanamycin.
4293592|Explants of sugarcane, a C
25623036|Production of vaccines in plant cells provides an alternative system that has several advantages when compared to current vaccine production methods. Establishment of stable seed stocks for a continuous supply of a vaccine is a critical part of production systems. Therefore, a vitrification method for cryopreservation was applied to non-transgenic and three different antigen-expressing transgenic Nicotiana tabacum (NT-1) lines. Preculture of the suspension cultures 1 d prior to vitrification was sufficient for cell survival through the cryopreservation process. Inclusion of 0.3 M mannitol in the preculture medium was necessary for maintenance of cell viability. Cultures were also treated with and without heat shock prior to vitrification, and it was found that heat shock was unnecessary for growth recovery post cryopreservation. All cultures survived storage in liquid nitrogen at intervals ranging from 1 h to 1 yr. Antigen expression was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for cultures that grew post cryopreservation and those that had never been cryopreserved. Expression levels in cultures derived from cryopreserved material were comparable to cultures that had not been cryopreserved. Transmission electron microscopy showed that the integrity of the cell structure was maintained post cryopreservation.
4292987|Plant cells growing in an artificial culture environment make numerous genetic mistakes. These alterations are manifested as increased frequencies of single-gene mutations, chromosome breakages, transposable element activations, quantitative trait variations, and modifications of normal DNA methylation patterns. Evidence is presented that indicates a high frequency of DNA hypomethylation as the result of the tissue culture process. Fifteen percent of the methylation changes appear to have been homozygous in the original regenerated plants. A hypothesis is advanced that relates DNA methylation to the variety of genetic alterations found among maize tissue culture regenerants and their progenies. The epigenetic nature of DNA methylation raises questions concerning the stability of tissue culture-induced changes in self-pollinations and crosses.
4293036| Five genotypes of Sequoia sempervirens were cultured in vitro. Stem segments of greenhouse-grown plants were disinfested and grown on a Wolter and Skoog (WS) medium without growth regulators for 4 wk. Newly developing shoots from axillary buds were then subcultured onto fresh media containing several different cytokinins at a concentration of 5 M each per treatment. The following cytokinin treatments were used: benzyladenine (BA), BA plus adenine hemisulfate, N-benzyl-9(2-tetrahydropyranyl) adenine (BPA), N6-[2-Isopentenyl]adenine (2ip), kinetin, thidiazuron (TDZ), and zeatin. Each genotype responded differently to tested cytokinins. The use of zeatin resulted in the highest number of shoots and the longest shoots for three genotypes of S. sempervirens. In another experiment, shoots from three genotypes were grown on the same basal medium described above and supplemented with zeatin at six different concentrations (2.5, 5, 10, 15, 20, and 30 M). For all zeatin concentrations, significant differences among genotypes for shoot proliferation were observed. When all five genotypes were grown under three concentrations of zeatin (5, 10, and 15 M), differences among genotypes were observed for both shoot proliferation and shoot length. The influence of the culture medium on the overall micropropagation protocol of S. sempervirens is discussed. 
40793224|Stem nodal segments of a sympodial orchid, Zygopetalum mackayi, were used as expiants to induce protocorm-like body (PLB) formation on a hormone-free 1/2 Murashige and Skoog (1962) modified medium (1/2MS-0) or 1/2MS supplemented with 0.045-4.54 M 1-pheny1-3-(1, 2,3-thiadiazol-5-y1)-urea [TDZ] in light. After 1 mo of culture, pale to dark green, compact and irregular nodulars of PLBs formed from the expiants. For PLB induction, TDZ had no significant effect on the percentage of PLB formation but promoted mean numbers of PLBs per responding expiant at 0.045-4.54 M. For plant conversion, PLBs were transferred onto the same basal medium devoid of TDZ. After 2-3 mo of culture, these PLBs successfully formed shoots and then roots with normal morphology. For PLB proliferation, TDZ has no significant effects on the fresh weight of PLB aggregates, but there is significantly retarded shoot development at 0.45-4. 54 M after 1 mo of culture. When transferring these PLB aggregates onto hormone-free medium for plant conversion, PLBs derived from TDZcontaining medium showed a decrease of shoot length (0.86-2.08 cm in shoot length) compared to those derived from 1/2MS-0 (2.74 cm in shoot length) after 1 mo of culture. Gibberellin A 3 [GA 3 ] at 0.29-8.66 M significantly retarded PLB proliferation, but at 0.03 and 0.29 M resulted in longer shoot length than the control treatment. Histological studies reveal that shoot development originated from the outer region of PLB aggregates. The young shoots initially connected to each other at their basal tissues with the parental PLBs. Plants were successfully obtained from PLBs and then gradually became more loosely connected with each other as well as with the parental aggregates. Several dozen plants were acclimatized in the greenhouse and showed normal morphology.
29736165|The present investigation reports optimized parameters for somatic embryogenesis and cryopreservation of embryogenic cultures using shoot apical domes from mature trees of Pinus roxburghii Sarg. Embryogenic tissue of P. roxburghii Sarg. was cryopreserved for 24 h, 10 d, and 8 wk using sorbitol and dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) as cryoprotectants. Results indicate that 0.2 M sorbitol and 5% DMSO had the best cryoprotecting effect. The recovered tissue showed luxuriant growth on maintenance medium (II). Partial desiccation of thawed embryogenic tissue for 24 h prior to transfer to maturation medium enhanced the maturation of somatic embryos. Maturation frequency increased from 1.3 to 18.3% after 12 h desiccation treatment, and from 18.3 to 61.8% after 24 h of desiccation. However, non-desiccated embryogenic tissue produced the least number of somatic embryos (1.3%) on the maturation medium with the same abscisic acid and Gellan gum concentration. All the three embryogenic lines produced plantlets and had the same appearance and normal growth as compated to unfrozen controls.
4292979|Thidiazuron (N-phenyl-N'-l,2,3-thiadiazol-5-ylurea) was first reported to have cytokinin activity in 1982. Since then, thidiazuron has been used successfully in vitro to induce adventitious shoot formation and to promote axillary shoot proliferation. Thidiazuron is especially effective with recalcitrant woody species. Shoot numbers produced on medium containing thidiazuron are equivalent to or greater than numbers initiated on medium with purine-type cytokinins. Low concentrations of thidiazuron (0.0022 to 0.088 mg/liter) are effective for micropropagation. Prolonged exposure to thidiazuron should be avoided, as this may cause hyperhydricity, abnormal shoot morphology, or problems in rooting.
4292983|Proliferative somatic embryogenesis is a regeneration system suitable for mass propagation and genetic transformation of soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.]. The objective of this study was to examine genotypic effects on induction and maintenance of proliferative embryogenic cultures, and on yield, germination, and conversion of mature somatic embryos. Somatic embryos were induced from eight genotypes by explanting 100 immature cotyledons per genotype on induction medium. Differences in frequency of induction were observed among genotypes. However, this step was not limiting for plant regeneration because induction frequency in the least responding genotype was sufficient to initiate and maintain proliferative embryogenic cultures. Six genotypes selected for further study were used to initiate embryogenic cultures in liquid medium. Cultures were evaluated for propagation of globular-stage tissue in liquid medium, yield of cotyledon-stage somatic embryos on differentiation medium, and plant recovery of cotyledon-stage embryos. Genotypes also differed for weight and volume increase of embryogenic tissue in liquid cultures, for yield of cotyledon-stage embryos on differentiation medium, and for plant recovery from cotyledon-stage embryos. Rigorous selection for a proliferative culture phenotype consisting of nodular, compact, green spheres increased embryo yield over that of unselected cultures, but did not affect the relative ranking of genotypes. In summary, the genotypes used in this study differed at each stage of plant regeneration from proliferative embryogenic cultures, but genotypic effects were partially overcome by protocol modifications.
4292985|A method was developed to induce desiccation tolerance in microspore-derived embryos of Brassica napus. Treatment of 14- to 20-day-old embryos with
4293724|Growth sensitivity of four local grapevine (Vitis vinifera) varieties, Ashlamesh, Helwani, Kassofee, and Khoudeiry, were evaluated for salt. They were cultured on DSD1 medium until rooting stage, then they were transferred to a liquid DSD1 medium containing 0, 10, 20, 30, 40, 80, 120, or 150 mM NaCl for 30 d. The shoot length and leaf number of Ashlamesh, Helwani, and Kassofee were significantly increased at 10 and/or 30mM NaCl, whereas, 150 mM NaCl decreased shoot length of all varieties except Kassofee. The presence of NaCl at 80 mM or higher concentrations decreased the chlorophyll content and root number of all varieties, while 30 mM NaCl increased root number of Kassofee.
4293100|A culture procedure using temporary immersion in a liquid medium was tested for somatic embryogenesis of Hevea brasiliensis (
4293140|The changes in the microtubular pattern during the first few days of somatic embryo induction were studied using the rice scutellum epithelium system. A clear difference in the distribution and orientation of the microtubules could be found as early as 12 h after culturing. In the control treatment, the microtubules tended to congregate near the terminal part of the cells and had an oblique to transverse orientation with respect to the long axis of the cells. In the hormone-treated explants, the microtubules were more evenly distributed throughout the cells as compared to the control treatment. The microtubules initially had an oblique orientation similar to the control. However, by 16 h, the majority of microtubules were aligned parallel to the long axis of the cells. The scutellum epithelial cells in both the control- and hormone-treated explants divided periclinally at about 48 h. In the control treatment, the scutellum epithelial cells gradually became vacuolated over time, while the hormone-treated explants remained densely cytoplasmic. The fluorescence staining intensity gradually declined in the control, whereas a distinct staining pattern of microtubules remained in the hormone-treated explants.
4292923|This note describes a simple experimental system for incubating plant cell and tissue cultures under conditions in which the gaseous environment within the culture flasks is continuously flushed out by air or gas mixtures of known composition. Two of the major problems in maintaining such cultures, namely, contamination and desiccation of the agar-solidified medium, can be overcome by using this setup. Furthermore, with modifications, it can be adapted for commercial micropropagation projects.
4293410|The transformation efficiency of cultivated tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum cv. UC82) using Agrobacterium tumefaciens was improved from 14% in a previous report to 25% in the present study. Several variables potentially involved in the improvement of transformation efficiency were evaluated, including enhancements in the regeneration system, antibiotics used for Agrobacterium-overgrowth control, and method of applying kanamycin for selection. The most important variable identified was the influence of overgrowth-control antibiotics on both the regeneration response and transformation efficiency. The best transformant recovery and Agrobacterium-overgrowth control was obtained using
40793159|Ocotea catharinensis is a rare tree species indigenous to the Atlantic rainforest of South America. In spite of its value as a hardwood species, it is in danger of extinction. The species erratically produces seeds showing irregular flowering and slow growth. Therefore, plants are not easily replaced. Tissue culture-based techniques are commonly used for obtaining living material for tree propagation and in vitro preservation. Therefore, a high-frequency somatic embryogenie system was developed for the species. In the present work, the genetic fidelity of cell aggregates and somatic embryos at various stages of in vitro development of O. catharinensis was investigated using RAPD and AFLP markers. Both analyses confirmed the absence of genetic variation in all developmental stages of O. catharinensis embryognie cultures, verifying that the in vitro system is genetically stable. The cultures were also analyzed for their methylation profiles at 5'-CCGG-S' sites by identifying methylation-sensitive amplification polymorphisms. Some of these markers differentiated cell aggregates from embryo bodies. The sequencing of ten MSAP markers revealed that four sequences showed significant similarity to genes encoding plant proteins. Particularly, the predicted amino acid sequence of the fragment designated as OcEaggHMttc155 was similar to the enzyme 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate oxidase (ACO), which is involved in the biosynthesis of ethylene, and its expression was reported to occur from the beginning to the intermediate stages of plant embryo development. Here, we suggest that this enzyme is possibly involved in the control of the earliest stages of somatic embryogenesis of O. catharinensis, and an approach to study ACO expression during somatic embryogenesis is proposed.
20461742|A rapid and efficient method for the large-scale propagation of a highly valuable medicinal plant, Andrographis paniculata Nees, through in vitro culture of nodal explants obtained from 15-d-old aseptic seedling has been developed. High frequency direct shoot proliferation was induced in nodal explants cultured on Murashige and Skoog's medium supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP). Amongst the various cytokinins tested (BAP, kinetin, thidiazuron and 2-isopentyl adenine), BAP proved to be the most effective. The shoot forming capacity of the nodal explants was influenced by the BAP concentration (1-12.5 M), and the optimal response was observed at 10 M BAP, which induced an average of 34 shoots in 94% of the cultures within 4 wk. Significant differences were recorded in terms of average number of shoots per explant (8.6-34.1) among the different concentrations of BAP investigated. Concentrations of all cytokinins tested reach a level that can be considered above the optimum level, as marked by a reduced frequency of shoot proliferation. The multiple shoots obtained on various concentrations of BAP failed to elongate even after transfer to hormone-free MS medium. Elongation of the induced shoots was achieved on MS basal medium supplemented with 1.0 M GA within 2 wk. A proliferating shoot culture was established by repeatedly subculturing the original nodal explants on shoot multiplication medium after each harvest of the newly formed shoots. The explants retained their morphogenic potential even after three harvests. Therefore, in 90 d, about 60-70 shoots were obtained from a single nodal explant and the nodal explants from primary shoots further regenerated equivalent number of shoots, depicting their high frequency regeneration potential in A. paniculata. Rooting was best induced in 94% of shoots cultured on MS medium supplemented with 2.5 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), within a wk. The plantlets were successfully transferred to soil after hardening with a 92% survival rate. The system is rapid: the initiation of shoot buds to the transplanting of regenerants to soil is completed in 8-9 wk.
20065011|Apical and axillary buds of Glycyrrhiza glabra commonly known as licorice, a plant of repute in the Indian system of medicine, were used for induction of adventitious shoots. For induction of multiple shoots, Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium with N-benzyladenine (BA, 0.88-8.87 M) was used. Reduction in major salts of MS medium enhanced the multiplication ratio up to 1:10. Plants transferred to the greenhouse showed 90% survival. The present work describes a stepwise protocol for production of Glycyrrhiza glabra plants on simple minimal media, where very high multiplication rates with healthy root systems were obtained. Roots being the organ of commercial importance, the protocol has tremendous potential.
23321170|In vitro screening at the cellular level was performed with mature seed-derived callus from five rice varieties, viz. IR 18351-229-3, IR 3185-6-3-3-2, SR 26-B, Nona Bokra, and C 14-8 of diverse geographical origin and with differential drought resistance at the in planta level. Callus was induced from mature seeds on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 2.0mgl-1 (9 M) of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 5.0, 10.0, and 15.0gl-1 of high molecular weight polyethylene glycol (PEG, 6000) as stressing agent to create chemical drought. Simultaneous efforts were also made to assess the effects of chemical drought in altering morphogenetic response in different varieties under in vitro culture. Seed germination was almost unaffected in SR 26-B and C 14-8, unlike in other varieties where germination was seriously affected. In general, seed germination was found to be decreased in three genotypes, viz. IR 18351-229-3, IR 3185-6-3-3-2, and Nona Bokra, with increased PEG concentrations. All genotypes displayed callus induction percentage in decreasing order with increased PEG concentrations supplemented in the callus induction medium (CIM), except SR 26-B and Nona Bokra. Callus induction was found to be more on CIM fortified with 5.0gl-1 PEG. In general, embryogenic callus induction and plantlet regeneration was found to be indirectly proportional to increased PEG concentrations used in CIM. Considering all characters, C 14-8 was found to be most appropriate in developing drought-tolerant lines under in vitro culture conditions followed by SR 26-B and Nona Bokra. A number of putative drought-tolerant plants were developed in C 14-8, SR 26-B, Nona Bokra, and IR 18351-29-3, and forwarded for field evaluation. In the majority of the progenies, a monogenic inheritance pattern for the drought tolerance character was observed.
41432439|High-frequency somatic embryogenesis was achieved in Coffea canephora using calcium ionophore A23187, which influences the influx of calcium into a cell. With 100 M calcium ionophore and 5 mM calcium, 85% and 70% of cultures produced embryogenic tissue, with 1057 and 958 primary embryos from each callus mass respectively. Medium supplemented with 100 M EGTA (calcium chelator) or 1 mM verapamil (calcium channel blocker) significantly reduced somatic embryogenesis. Calcium imaging studies were done to determine the relationship between morphogenetic response and the cellular calcium levels. The calcium ionophore/calcium treatment was very effective in driving cellular machinery toward embryogenesis. The embryos were regenerated into plantlets when cultured on MS medium supplemented with 5 mM calcium/100 M calcium ionophore A23187. Somatic embryogenesis-derived plants were successfully transferred to soil and grown to maturity in the field.
20461709|The internodes of Cephaelis ipecacuanha elongated when cultured on Gamborg B5 solid medium supplemented with 0.5 or 1 mg/L gibberellic acid (GA). The size of the elongated internode doubled in length compared to the untreated shoots, and the adventitious shoots formed on the elongated internodes. The shoots grew easily into plantlets without the use of auxin for rooting. The ex vitro regenerates cultivated in the greenhouse showed normal characteristics. Emetic alkaloids were detected in the leaves of in vitro shoots and the roots of regenerates cultivated in the greenhouse. This method using GA propagated numerous plants at a rate of more than 100 times compared to the method without GA.
20541030|Biodiesel, defined as the mono-alkyl esters of vegetable oils or animal fats, is an environmentally attractive alternative to conventional petroleum diesel fuel (petrodiesel). Produced by transesterification with a monohydric alcohol, usually methanol, biodiesel has many important technical advantages over petrodiesel, such as inherent lubricity, low toxicity, derivation from a renewable and domestic feedstock, superior flash point and biodegradability, negligible sulfur content, and lower exhaust emissions. Important disadvantages of biodiesel include high feedstock cost, inferior storage and oxidative stability, lower volumetric energy content, inferior low-temperature operability, and in some cases, higher
40793218|Nitrogen (N) metabolism during embryogenesis may be fundamental in the embryognie response. We used different expiants of Medicago arbrea L. subsp. arbrea seedlings: cotyledons, petioles and leaves, which form calluses with different embryognie responses. The endogenous contents of total nitrogen, nitrate, nitrite and ammonia and nitrate reductase activity were determined in embryognie and non-embryogenic calluses induced from the different expiants. The endogenous total N content decreased in the calluses as the culture time progressed, this decrease being more pronounced in the more embryognie calluses obtained from petioles with the H8 and F0 media. Inorganic N decreased during embryogenesis, coinciding with an increase in organic N. Thus, N metabolism somehow seems to be essential in embryogenesis. The N detected in calluses, at the start of culture, was mainly metabolised to nitrite. This metabolism was very pronounced; especially in embryognie calluses obtained from cotyledons and petioles. That is, the metabolism of N seemed to be more marked in the calluses in which embryogenesis was greater. The nitrite content decreased in all the calluses, the contents being lower, especially in the last months of culture, in the more embryognie calluses obtained from petioles. In many calluses, ammonia levels did not follow any general pattern. Neither was it possible to detect changes in ammonia levels between the embryognie and non-embryogenic calluses. Regarding nitrate reductase activity, no clear differences between embryognie and non-embryogenic calluses were found.
4293050|A simple and rapid procedure for direct organogenesis from root nodulelike structures of alfalfa (Medicago saliva L.) line SGg, spontaneously induced on growth regulator-free Gamborg (B
20065025|Regeneration of cashew (Anacardium occidentale L.) from shoot explants of young grafts of mature tree origin is described. Establishment of shoot cultures was affected by season of collection, source, and type of explant. Explants from young grafts established better than those collected from field trees, and nodal cuttings regenerated better than shoot tips. Maximum percentage bud break and minimum contamination was noticed when shoots were collected in dry months (January to May). Pre-conditioning of stock plants by hormonal spray with 6-benzyladenine (BA) and gibberellic acid (GA) and brief presoaking of shoots in BA had no significant effect on culture establishment. MS (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) medium with half-strength major nutrients, 2.74 mM L-glutamine, 87.6 mM sucrose, and
23016752|The regeneration ability of a Tunisian barley accession originated from Kerkena islands was monitored through somatic embryogenesis and organogenesis. To prevent or to reduce normal germination, longitudinally bisected as well as base-wounded mature caryopses were cultured on a modified Che and Pool-based medium (CP) enriched with different phytohormonal combinations. The greatest embryogenesis response was obtained when base-wounded caryopses were cultured on CP enriched with 2 mg/l chlorophenoxyacetic acid+2.5 mg/l kinetin (76.85%). The same combination coupled to longitudinally bisected caryopses led to the embryogenic induction at the hypocotyl base of the germinated caryopses (61.9%). Embryogenic calluses differentiated into globular, heart-shaped, torpedo, and fully differentiated stages of somatic embryos on hormone-free Murashige and Skoog-based medium. Rooted plantlets were successfully transferred to soil and grown to maturity in the greenhouse and produced fertile seeds within 3 mo. On the other hand, organogenesis was achieved on CP enriched with 2 mg/l 2, 4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid+2.5 mg/l kinetin. Histological aspects and scanning electron microscopy of both regeneration methods confirmed further the embryogenic and organogenic nature of the established processes. This efficient plant regeneration system provides a foundation for generating transgenic plants and germplasm preservation of "Kerkena" barley accession.
20541045|An effective protocol was developed for in vitro regeneration of the Melothria maderaspatana via indirect organogenesis in liquid and solid culture systems. Organogenesis was achieved from liquid culture calluses derived from leaf and petiole explants of mature plants. Organogenic calluses (98.20.36 and 94.80.71%) were induced from both leaf and petiole explants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) liquid medium containing 6.0 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 0.5 M thidiazuron (TDZ); and 6.0 M 2,4-D and 1.0 M benzyladenine (BA) combinations, respectively. Adventitious shoot regeneration (68.20.06 shoots per explant) was achieved on MS medium supplemented with 2.0 M BA, 4.0 M TDZ, 10% v/v coconut water and 0.06 mM glutamine from leaf-derived calluses. Petiole-derived calluses produced adventitious shoots (45.40.09 shoots per explant) on MS medium fortified with 2.0 M BA, 4.0 M TDZ, 10% v/v coconut water, and 0.08 mM glutamine. Elongation of shoots occurred in MS medium with 2.0 M gibberellic acid (GA). Regenerated shoots (2-3 cm in length) rooted (74.20.38%) and hardened (851.24%) when they were transferred to 1/2-MS medium supplemented with 3.0 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) followed by garden soil, vermiculate, and sand (2:1:1 ratio) mixture. The elongated shoots (4-5 cm in length) were exposed simultaneously for rooting as well as hardening (100%) in moistened [(1/8-MS basal salt solution with 5 M IBA and 100 mg l Bavistin (BVN)] garden soil, vermiculate, and sand (2:1:1 ratio) mixture. Subsequently, the plants were successfully established in the field. The survival percentage differed with seasonal variations.
20461670|Orchid-mycobiont specificity in the Orchidaceae was considered controversial and not well understood for many years. Differences in mycobiont specificity during germination in vitro vs in situ have lead some to consider orchid-mycobiont specificity as being generally low; however, others have suggested that specificity, especially in vitro, is surprisingly high. Mycobiont specificity may be genus or species specific. An in vitro symbiotic seed germination experiment was designed to examine mycobiont specificity of the endangered Florida terrestrial orchid Spiranthes brevilabris using mycobionts isolated from both the study species and the endemic congener Spiranthes floridana. In a screen of mycobionts, isolates Sflo-305 (99.5%), Sflo-306 (99.5%), and Sflo-308 (89.9%) (originating from S. floridana) supported higher initial (stage 1) seed germination than isolate Sbrev-266 (32.4%) (originating from S. brevilabris) after 3 wk culture. However, only isolate Sbrev-266 supported advanced germination and protocorm development to stage 5 (53.1%) after 12 wk culture. These findings suggest that S. brevilabris maintains a high degree of mycobiont specificity under in vitro symbiotic seed germination conditions. High orchid-mycobiont specificity in S. brevilabris may be indicative of the rare status of this orchid in Florida.
23016587|The importance of in vitro tools to complement other ex situ methods for saving plants from extinction is more relevant than ever before. More than 50% of the world's plant species are endemic to the 34 global biodiversity hotspots (GBHs), each holding at least 1,500 endemic plant species. In addition, a large number of small islands hold a number of endemic species on the brink of extinction. Conservation support concentrating more on these hotspots and small islands would significantly reduce the loss of species that is currently occurring. In the majority of these cases, the resources are either locally scarce or difficult to access for in vitro conservation to support other ex situ measures. Most island countries are small, and their geographical position is a stumbling block to initiate active partnerships with other countries when they need to use in vitro tools to rescue plants that produce recalcitrant seeds/spores or propagate only by vegetative means. However, many biodiversity hotspot countries have facilities and expertise, and they concentrate on their own flora for in vitro conservation programmes. For decades, because of the grave threat these plants face, the Conservation Biotechnology Unit, previously known as the Micropropagation Unit, at Royal Botanic Gardens Kew (RBG Kew) has been at the forefront of assisting countries to save their valuable biodiversity through both in situ and ex situ methods. Approaches mentioned here highlight work on recalcitrant ferns from GBHs and small islands. Source materials from recalcitrant species, either spore or seed and in some cases vegetative material, need to be used immediately after collection for tangible results in vitro. This becomes more difficult when only a few plants or small populations are left in the wild. The task becomes harder when available material is small in quantity, and there is greater restriction on the use of available genetic diversity in the wild. This paper highlights the importance of proper collection measures, in vitro culture procedures and cryopreservation and methods for the integrated conservation of threatened ferns from both GBHs and small islands. The importance of international networking to achieve these conservation goals also will be discussed.
23321161|Embryogenic callus of Anliucheng sweet orange (Citrus sinensis Osbeck) is theoretically diploid. However, significant chromosomal variations occurred when the calluses were subcultured and preserved for a long time. Cytological observation revealed a variety of mitotic irregularities underlying the occurrence of chromosomal variations. Despite the ubiquitous existence of chromosomal variations, long-term-cultured calluses were still capable of producing somatic embryos and plants. Interestingly, chromosomal variants were selected against when somatic embryos and plants regenerated from the embryogenic callus. Randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis was also carried out to detect DNA sequence variation in regenerated plants derived from the embryogenic callus. No difference in banding patterns was detected. It was clear that the plant regeneration from long-term-cultured callus was inclined to select against somaclonal variations.
4293732|Pathogens of plants produce effector proteins necessary for successful parasitism. The effectors enhance pathogen virulence by manipulating signaling in the plant. Plants produce resistance (R) proteins that mediate recognition of specific effectors and respond by initiating plant defenses. In many cases, R-proteins perceive effectors indirectly; virulence signaling initiated by the effector is shunted, via the R-protein, into a resistance response. Therefore, by understanding how effectors manipulate virulence targets we will concurrently gain insight into how this signaling elicits R-protein-mediated defense responses.
20540984|The recently achieved significant improvement of cereal transformation protocols provides facilities to alter the protein composition of the endosperm, for example, to increase or decrease the quantity of one of its protein components or to express foreign molecules. To achieve this goal, strong endosperm-specific promoters have to be available. The aim of our work was to develop a more efficient tissue-specific promoter which is currently used. A chimaeric promoter was assembled using the 5 UTR (1,900 bp) of the gene coding for the 1Bx17 HMW glutenin subunit protein, responsible for tissue-specific expression and the first intron of the rice actin gene (act1). The sequence around of the translation initial codon was optimized. The effect of the intron and promoter regulatory sequences, using different lengths of 1Bx17 HMW-GS promoter, were studied on the expression of uidA gene. The function of promoter elements, promoter length, and the first intron of the rice actin gene were tested by a transient expression assay in immature wheat endosperm and in stable transgenic rice plants. Results showed that insertion of the rice act1 first intron increased GUS expression by four times in transient assay. The shortest 1Bx17 HMW-GS promoter fragment (173 bp) linked to the intron and GUS reporter gene provided almost the same expression level than the intronless long 1Bx17 HMW-GS promoter. Analysis of the stable transformant plants revealed that 173 nucleotides were sufficient for endosperm-specific expression of the uidA gene, despite 13 nucleotides missing from the HMW enhancer sequence, a relevant regulatory element in the promoter region.
4293478| Establishment of fast-growing, highly regenerable callus cultures was examined in Muscari armeniacum Leichtl. ex Bak. in order to develop an efficient genetic transformation system. High-frequency callus formation was obtained from leaf explants of cv. Blue Pearl on media containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) or 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid (picloram, PIC). Fast-growing, yellowish nodular callus lines and white friable callus lines containing a few somatic embryos were established on initiation medium supplemented with 4.5 M 2,4-D and with 54 M NAA, respectively. The yellowish nodular calluses vigorously produced shoot buds after transfer to media containing 0.44-44 M 6-benzyladenine (BA), whereas the white friable calluses produced numerous somatic embryos upon transfer to plant growth regulator-free (PGR-F) medium. Histological observation of shoot buds and somatic embryos indicated that the former consisted of an apparent shoot meristem and several leaf primordia, and the latter had two distinct meristematic regions, corresponding to shoot and root meristems. Both shoot buds and somatic embryos developed into complete plantlets on PGR-F medium. Regenerated plants showed no observable morphological alterations. High proliferation and regeneration ability of these calluses were maintained for over 2 yr. 
24596335|Sugarcane (Saccharum spp. hybrids) is an important commodity field crop in tropical and subtropical countries providing sugar and biofuel feedstock and occupying a critical and strategic position in the global economy. This study was conducted to evaluate, compare, and optimize a rapid direct regeneration tissue culture system from immature leaf whorl and pre-emergent floral explants for three elite US sugarcane genotypes: CP84-1198, CP88-1762, and CP89-2143. Direct regeneration of adventitious shoot buds from the immature leaf roll explants and subsequent elongation and rooting of shoot buds was successfully obtained on modified Murashige and Skoog salt medium supplemented with 5 mg l -naphthaleneacetic acid and 0.5 mg l kinetin. Significant genotype-specific differences in the morphogenetic potential of leaf roll explants were discernible with the explant developmental stage (explant position along the leaf roll axis) and orientation during in vitro culture. The highest number of shoots was regenerated from CP88-1762, followed by CP89-2143 and CP84-1198 from explants closest to the meristem that were oriented horizontally (CP88-1762) or vertically (CP89-2143 and CP84-1198) on the culture medium. Immature inflorescence-derived explants from all three genotypes when cultured on the above medium for 2 wk rapidly produced shoots, followed by rooting on medium supplemented with 4 mg l indole-3-butyric acid. The regeneration protocols yielded robust rooted plantlets from immature leaf roll explants within 4 to 6 wk, which were readily acclimatized under greenhouse conditions.
4293069| Callus was initiated from either cormel slices or in vitro-grown plants of six Gladiolus cultivars cultured on Murashige and Skoog's basal salts medium supplemented with either 10 mg/liter (53.8 M) 1-naphthaleneacetic acid, 2 mg/liter (9.3 M) dicamba, or 0.5 mg/liter (2.2 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. More plants were regenerated from callus of the cultivar "Peter Pears" as compared to "Jenny Lee," "Florida Flame," or "Golden Year." No plants were regenerated from callus of "Rosa Supreme" or "Purity White." Plants were regenerated from 2 and 6-mo.-old suspension cells of "Jenny Lee" and "Peter Pears" but not from "Florida Flame." Cormel slices cultured on Murashige and Skoog's basal salts medium supplemented with 1 mg/liter (4.4 M) 6-benzylaminopurine regenerated plants from all six cultivars indicating a cultivar-independent system of plant regeneration. 
4293367|Plants were regenerated from cotyledon tissue of greenhouse grown seedlings of common buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum Moench.). Maximum callus regeneration was induced on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 2,4-D (
20065002|The effects of callus inoculation concentration and culture duration on somatic embryogenesis of orchardgrass, Dactylis glomerata L., were evaluated in suspension cultures of an embryogenic genotype, Embryogen-P. Somatic embryo formation was induced in liquid SH medium containing 30 M dicamba (SH-30 and 1.5% casein hydrolysate; embryo development was in liquid SH medium without plant growth regulators (SH-0); and embryo maturation and germination occurred on solid SH-0 medium. Callus proliferation in SH-30 suspension cultures was greatest when callus was inoculated into the liquid medium at a relatively high concentration of 4% (4 g callus/100 ml medium), but the induction of somatic embryos was highest in this medium if the callus was inoculated at a lower concentration (&lt2%). In a second experiment, somatic embryo yield was highest when SH-0 development medium was inoculated with suspension culture callus at 0.1% concentration and declined markedly as inoculation concentration increased. Cell concentration is a critical factor in regulating the somatic embryogenesis response in orchardgrass suspension cultures.
42568795|An efficient somatic embryogenesis and regeneration system was developed for the first time in onion using shoot apex expiants. These expiants were used to initiate callus in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 4.0 mg 1 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. The induction frequency of primary callus in this medium was 85.3%. The primary calli were then transferred onto medium supplemented with 2.0 mg 1 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Following two biweekly subcultures, embryogenic callus formed. Inclusion of a low concentration of 6-benzylaminopurine in the subculture medium promoted the formation of embryogenic callus. The addition of 2.0 mg 1 glycine, 690 mg 1 proline, and 1.0 g 1 casein hydrolysate also increased the frequency of callus induction and embryogenic callus formation. The highest frequency of embryogenic callus (86.9%) and greatest number of somatic embryos (26.3 per callus) were obtained by the further addition of 8.0 mg 1 silver nitrate. Somatic embryos formed plantlets on regeneration medium supplemented with 1.5 mg 1 6-benzylaminopurine; addition of 2.0 mg 1 glycine to the regeneration medium promoted a high frequency of regeneration (78.1%) and plantlet formation (28.7 plants per callus). The regenerated plantlets were transferred to half-strength MS medium supplemented with 1.5 mg 1 indole-3-butyric acid for root development; the maximum frequency of root formation was 87.7% and the average number of roots was 7.6 per shoot. The regenerated plantlets were successfully grown to maturity after hardening in the soil. This is the first report of somatic embryogenesis and regeneration from shoot apex expiants of onion.
4293394|Desiccation tolerance can be induced by culturing somatic embryos of loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.) on medium supplemented with 50  M abscisic acid (ABA) and/or 8.5% polyethylene glycol (
41496506|Previous studies have shown that Cucumber-FLOLFY(CFL) overexpression significantly promotes early flowering without a gibberellin (GA) supplement in gloxinia (Sinningia speciosa), suggesting that CFL can serve functionally as a LEAFY homolog. In the present study, different sucrose concentrations were applied to the culture medium to investigate the effects of sucrose on the development of excised flower buds and the regeneration of floral buds from sepals in wild-type and 35S::CFL gloxinia lines. The results showed that floral buds were formed directly from sepal expiants without prior formation of shoots and leaves in 35S::CFL gloxinia lines when 2% w/v sucrose was added. Conversely, 0% or 5% w/v sucrose inhibited the generation of flower buds from sepals and the opening of flowers. Semiquantitative PCR also showed that a medium with 5% w/v sucrose significantly inhibited MADS-box gene expression in wild type and much less significantly in 35S::CFL gloxinia. These data indicate that sucrose, as the main carbohydrate transported in floral organs, is a significant promoter of flower induction and maturity.
20064880|A cell suspension of French Sombre plantain banana (Musa spp. AAB genome) was initiated from callus obtained from young male flowers. Histological examination enabled us to describe and follow the evolution of the suspension consisting of: embryogenic aggregates, proembryos, nodules, and isolated cells. It demonstrated the unicellular origin of somatic embryos, either during maintenance of the suspension or after plating on a semisolid medium. The cells from which the embryos originated had no starch but only protein reserves. Plating 1 ml of packed cells from the suspension led to the formation of 10 embryos of which 10 to 40% could be converted into plantlets.
4293422|Nodal explants from hop were exposed to plant growth regulators to determine suitable media for initiation from axillary buds and subsequent micropropagation. Efficient culture establishment (96.6% of explants) was achieved on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (modified to contain
4293813| Media components used for three stages of development: (1) callus maintenance, (2) maturation of embryos, and (3) conversion of embryos to plants were shown to affect regeneration of plants for the commercially important red rose cultivar Kardinal. Embryogenic callus was maintained for 5 yr on either Schenk and Hildebrandt's basal salts medium (SH) supplemented with 13.6 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or Murashige and Skoog's basal salts medium (MS) supplemented with 18.1 M dicamba and 0.46 M kinetin. Maturation of embryos was three times higher using callus maintained on the SH medium supplemented with 2,4-D while conversion of cotyledonary-stage embryos to plants was significantly higher (10 times) using callus that had been maintained on MS medium with dicamba and kinetin. Maximum maturation (13.5%) and conversion (15.2%) occurred when callus was cultured on MS maturation medium without hormones. Cotyledonary-stage embryos cultured on MS conversion medium supplemented with abscisic acid (5-20 M) produced plants that survived at a significantly higher rate (two times) in the greenhouse than when embryos were cultured without abscisic acid. The highest rate of plant regeneration occurred when embryogenic callus of 'Kardinal' was maintained on MS medium supplemented with dicamba and kinetin, maturation of embryos occurred on MS maturation medium without hormones, and conversion of cotyledonary-stage embryos occurred on MS conversion medium supplemented with abscisic acid. 
29736181|Zygotic embryos at different developmental stages were tested for their potential in the initiation of embryogenic suspensor mass (ESM) lines using immature seeds of Pinus rigidaP. taeda. The highest frequency (1.1%) of ESM was obtained with explants from cones collected on July 1. All excised embryos of the July 1 collection were at the early proembryo stage. Two different culture media were compared. Forty-eight ESM lines were initiated on Pinus taeda basal medium (P6) (0.97%) with 13.5 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 4.4 M benzyladenine (BA). However, only four ESM were obtained on a modified Murashige and Skoog medium (MSG; 0.55%). Most of the ESM arose from the seeds that were at the stages ranging from late cleavage polyembryony to the early staged proembryo. Out of 52 lines (0.46%) that were produced from 11,388 explants, only two viable lines (0.018%) (PRT11 and PRT28) survived. As for somatic embryo maturation, the highest number (224/g FW) of mutured cotyledonary somatic embryos (line PRT 28) was obtained on a medium containing 100 M abscisic acid (ABA), 0.2 M maltose, and 1.2% gellan gum. For germination of the somatic embryos, the cotyledonary somatic embryos derived from maturation medium were transferred on half-strength Litvay medium (LM) plus 0.4% gellan gum. The germination rates were high (71.4-96.3%) regardless of the concentrations of either ABA or gellan gum in the maturation medium. Approximately 500 somatic plants were recovered from the germination medium and transferred to the green house; finally most of them were transplanted successfully to the experimental field.
23016583|This special issue is dedicated to the in vitro tools and methods used to conserve the genetic diversity of rare and threatened plant species from around the world. Species that are on the brink of extinction because of the rapid loss of genetic diversity and habitat come mainly from resource-poor areas of the world and from global biodiversity hotspots and island countries. These species are unique because they are endemic, and only a few small populations or sometimes only a few individuals remain in the wild. Therefore, the challenges to support conservation by in vitro measures are many and varied. The editors of this invited issue solicited papers from experts from Asia, Africa, Europe, Australia, and North and South America. This compilation of articles describes the efforts in these diverse regions toward saving plants from extinction, and details the direct application of in vitro and cryopreservation methods. In addition, these contributions provide guidance on propagation of rare plants, including techniques for large-scale propagation, storage, and reintroduction. The in vitro techniques for conserving plant biodiversity include shoot apical or axillary-meristem-based micropropagation, somatic embryogenesis, cell culture technologies and embryo rescue techniques, as well as a range of in vitro cold storage and cryopreservation protocols, and they are discussed in depth in this issue.
20461661|An efficient protocol was developed for in vitro clonal propagation of Curculigo orchioides Gaertn. through apical meristem culture. Multiple shoots were induced from apical meristems grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with 1.5 mg l 6-benzyladenine (BA), 100 mg l adenine sulfate (Ads) and 3% sucrose. Inclusion of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) or indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) in the culture medium improved the formation of multiple shoots. The highest frequency of multiplication was obtained on MS medium supplemented with 1.5 mg l BA, 100 mg l Ads, 0.25 mg l IBA and 3% sucrose. Rooting was achieved upon transferring the micro-shoots to half-strength MS medium containing 0.25 mg l IBA and 2% sucrose. Micropropagtated plantlets were hardened in the greenhouse and successfully established in soil.
4293943| A temporary immersion bioreactor system (TIB system) provides a convenient and efficient way to propagate plant material in vitro while requiring significantly lower labor input than conventional methods. The applicability of a TIB system for adventitious shoot regeneration from strawberry leaf explants was studied. Five commercial cultivars, i.e. Bounty, Jonsok, Korona, Polka, and Zephyr, were propagated in regeneration medium in commercially available TIB bioreactors (RITA) and, for comparison, on the same medium solidified with agar. The TIB system proved to be well suited for shoot propagation and for subsequent subculture of the developing plantlets. Regeneration frequencies were 70  8 to 94  2% and 83  5 to 92  3% in the TIB system and on semi-solid medium, respectively. The labor time taken by the TIB system was less than half of the time required for handling plant material for cultivation on semi-solid medium. This system thus provides a convenient method that could be adopted for commercial in vitro propagation or for regeneration of transgenic strawberry cultivars. 
40981325|The 'Da Jiao' cultivar of banana (Musa paradisiacal ABB Linn.) is an ideal germplasm to produce new banana varieties resistant to Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cubense (FOC) race 4, for this cultivar is not only a popular dessert banana in south China, but also bears high resistance to FOC race 4. In this study, we established a homogeneous embryognie cell suspension (ECS) of 'Da Jiao' and obtained regenerated plants from ECS-derived protoplasts via somatic embryogenesis. The ECS was initiated from yellow friable callus induced from immature male inflorescence on M1 medium. A pre-culture was used to select ECS in M2 medium without 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid for 10 d. Addition of 1.0 mg L abscisic acid to M3 medium could enhance the frequency of somatic embryogenesis by about 2.6-fold. Protoplasts, with a yield range of 5-610 per milliliter, were isolated from the ECS. About 0.35% of the protoplasts formed microcallus, which contained about 100 cells, after 1 mo of feeder layer culture with ECS of Musa acuminate cv. Mas (AA) as nurse cells. Healthy plantlets (0.14%) were regenerated from the microcallus through somatic embryogenesis.
4293716|Excised cotyledons from 8-d-old pumpkin (Cucurbita pepo L.) seedlings were inoculated with Agrobacterium rhizogenes and cultured on hormone-free Murashige and Skoog medium. At the site of inoculation, transformed hairy roots were successfully induced by using wild strains 8196 (mannopine-type) and 15834 (agropine-type). After a subsequent transfer on a solid MS medium without hormones, roots obtained by transformation with strain 15834 failed to form stable hairy root cultures, while several hairy root lines were established with strain 8196. Three hairy root lines, Cp1, Cp2, and Cp31, have spontaneously generated callus with embryo-like structures after more than 3 yr of growth on the solid medium. The callus proliferation was more frequent when the autoclaving of nutrient medium, pH 5.7, was prolonged to 30 min. Separated calluses continued to proliferate and generated embryos with abnormal morphology. The combination of indole-3-acetic acid and benzyladenine had a favorable influence on embryogenesis and organogenesis in the Cp31 callus line. The Southern analysis of Cp31 root and embryo DNA confirmed the presence of the T-DNA of Agrobacterium rhizogenes.
20171598| Advances in the development of subunit vaccines and in the production of foreign proteins in plants together offer the prospect of stable and inexpensive vaccine delivery systems. Various bacterial and viral proteins stably produced in plants have been shown to elicit immune responses in feeding trials. We have extended this approach by using Zea mays as the plant production system. Corn has several advantages as a vaccine delivery vehicle, most notably established technologies to generate transgenic plants, to optimize traits through breeding and to process the seed into a palatable form. Here we report on the production in corn seed of the GM receptor binding (B) subunit of the heat-labile toxin (Lt) from enterotoxigenic strains of Escherichia coli. Versions of the Lt-B gene were synthesized to give optimum codon usage for corn and to target the protein to either the cell surface or the cytoplasm. These synthetic genes were fused to a strong promoter and transformed into corn. Lt-B was highly expressed in corn seed at up to 1.8% of the total soluble protein and this was further increased approximately five-fold through plant breeding. As in E. coli, Lt-B produced in corn forms a functional pentamer that can bind to the GM receptor. Furthermore, Lt-B pentamer stored in corn seed is much more resistant to heat than is the pure protein, allowing the transgenic corn to be readily processed into an edible form. This work demonstrates the potential of using products derived from transgenic corn seed as delivery vehicles for subunit vaccines. 
4293057| Liquid medium and an enriched agar were used to detect endophytic bacteria in micropropagated mints (Mentha spp.) within 2 to 6 d of inoculation. Bacteria isolated from the cultures were screened on several antibiotic concentrations to determine bactericidal doses. Antibiotics were also tested for phytotoxic effects. Shoot tips from infected plants were treated by immersion in liquid MS medium containing antibiotics either singly or in combination. Streptomycin applied at 1000 g/ml for a period of 10 d was effective and less phytotoxic in a larger number of cases than gentamicin (50 g/ml), neomycin (500 g/ml), or rifampicin (30 g/ml). Mint cultures that tested negative for bacteria after antibiotic treatment were multiplied, retested, and cold-stored for 1 yr or longer. Upon regrowth after storage, 25 of 30 treated cultures (83%) tested negative for bacteria. Of the 25, 8 were successfully treated with streptomycin, 1 with gentamicin, 2 with neomycin, 1 with rifampicin, and 1 with streptomycin and gentamicin; 12 required more than one treatment. An early detection system, initial trial treatment with streptomycin for infected plants, and monitoring of treated cultures successfully reduced the spread of bacterial contamination. Antibiotic treatment in liquid MS medium at pH 6.9 resulted in enhanced bactericidal activity over that seen at pH 5.5. 
4293147| We analyzed four factors (phosphate and nitrate salts, sucrose, and culture inoculum age), simultaneously at three levels using a fractional factorial design method to determine the most suitable conditions for maximizing both root biomass and terpenoid production in transformed Artemisia annua root cultures. Optimal growth conditions were determined to be: nitrate (15 mM), phosphate (1.0 mM), sucrose content (5% wt/vol), and inoculum age (8 d-old). Determination of optimal conditions for sesquiterpene production was more complicated than for biomass production. For most experiments artemisinic acid was undetectable especially in experiments where phosphate was greater than 0.5 mM and for nearly all culture inoculum ages of 14 d. Artemisinic acid was also never detected whenever arteannuin B was present. Arteannuin B was the major artemisinic compound detected in these experiments, sometimes at levels exceeding 300 g/g fresh weight. When the sum of artemisinin and its three precursors is analyzed, three factors (sucrose, nitrate, and inoculum age) are heavily dependent on one another, and in conjunction with possible degradation of artemisinin by peroxidase, the current analysis does not provide a clear picture regarding the most effective conditions for maximizing the production of artemisinin. 
41496440|In vitro propagation of neem (Azadirachta indica A. Juss.) may offer an efficient alternative to seed propagation of this species. For optimization of in vitro propagation, different basal salt formulations, growth regulators, and culture container sealants (polytetrafluoroethylene hydrophobic membranes [PTFE]) were evaluated. Nodal segments cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium showed the highest shoot formation per expiant (1.67). Explants cultured in flasks containing MS medium with 0.5 mg L benzyladenine, 0.5 mg L kinetin, and 0.05 mg L naphthaleneacetic acid, and sealed with two PTFE membranes, produced the highest number of shoots (4.04). In contrast, explants cultured in flasks without membranes showed leaf chlorosis and senescence. For plant recovery, regenerants were acclimatized in a substrate of coconut fiber and eucalyptus bark (1: 1) and showed 80% survival. Our results indicated that the use of flasks with vents was beneficial for in vitro propagation of this important plant.
20171601| An efficient plant regeneration protocol has been developed from root explants of Psoralea corylifolia L., an endangered medicinally important herbaceous plant species belonging to the family Fabaceae. Nodular embryogenic callus was initiated from young root segments cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (1962) supplemented with -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA; 2.68-13.42 M) or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D; 2.25-11.25 M) in combination with 6-benzylaminopurine (BA; 2.2 M), thiamine HCl (2.9 M), L-glutamine (342.23 M) and sucrose (3.0%, w/v). The highest frequency (95.2%) of embryogenic calluses was obtained on MS medium supplemented with the growth regulators NAA (10.74 M) and BA (2.2 M). Development and maturation of somatic embryos was achieved after transfer of embryogenic calluses to MS medium supplemented with 1.34 M NAA or 1.12 M 2,4-D and 4.4-13.2 M BA. The maximum number (13.8  1.34) of cotyledonary-stage somatic embryos was obtained on MS medium containing 1.34 M NAA and 13.2 M BA. Germination of somatic embryos occurred on MS medium without any growth regulators and also on MS medium enriched with BA (1.1-8.8 M), although the maximum germination frequency (76.1%) was obtained on 4.4 M BA plus 1.45 M gibberellic acid (GA). Plant regeneration without complete somatic embryo maturation was also achieved by transferring clumps of nodular embryogenic calluses onto MS0 medium or MS medium supplemented with NAA (1.34 M) and BA (2.2-8.8 M). The highest frequency of plant regeneration (93.3%) and mean number of plantlets (15.4  0.88) were obtained on MS medium containing 1.34 M NAA and 4.4 M BA. Regenerated plants with well-developed root systems were transferred to pots where they grew vigorously, attained maturity and produced fertile seeds. 
4293595|Protoplasts were isolated from Agrobacterium rhizogenes
4293504|This report reviews the contributions to the improvement of sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) through traditional approaches with emphasis on the application of biotechnological methods. Strategies include breeding for higher yield, improved grain quality, and biotic and abiotic stress tolerance. Hybrid development and polyploidy breeding are also discussed. Plant breeders, working in concert with biotechnologists, have developed new powerful tools for plant genetic manipulation and genotype evaluation that will significantly improve the efficiency of plant breeding. Improving sorghum through biotechnology is the latest in a long series of technologies that have been applied to this crop. Five basic tools of technology have been developed for sorghum improvement: (1) in vitro protocols for efficient plant regeneration; (2) molecular markers; (3) gene identification and cloning; (4) genetic engineering and gene transfer technology to integrate desirable traits into the sorghum genome; and (5) genomics and germplasm databases. Reports on studies involving the problems, progress, and prospects for utilizing the biotechnological methods for sorghum improvement are discussed.
20541008|Tissue and cell culture systems are vital to many areas of maize research and improvement. Efficient shoot regeneration remains a limiting factor for most elite lines. To enhance shoot regeneration, calluses derived from immature embryos of four genotypes were subjected to 6, 12, 24, 48, and 72 h of desiccation on sterile filter paper before shoot induction. We achieved up to 32% desiccation (measured as mass) and 48% imbibition (measured as mass gain in 48 h incubation) which was 3.4-fold higher than nondesiccated controls. This rapid desiccation/imbibition procedure enhanced shoot regeneration and development, but its efficiency was crucially dependent on the degree and duration of desiccation. All four genotypes calluses regenerated shoots best after 48 h of desiccation corresponding to a 23.7% average desiccation percentage, and regeneration frequencies reached 42-74%, which increased 1.5-2.1-fold compared with that of nondesiccated calluses. The effect of desiccation treatment on the shoot regeneration increase took place mainly during the early phase of induction. The weekly average shoot regeneration frequency of calluses with 48 h desiccation in the first wk reached 8.8% (the control was no regeneration); then it increased 3.0 and 2.3-fold in the second and third wk induction, respectively. We demonstrate that the moderate desiccation of calluses increases the yield of shoot regeneration and speeds up regeneration course in maize.
4293831|In vitro clonal propagation of 18-20-yr-old Holarrhena antidysenterica trees has been achieved by employing nodal explants. The tree explants showed marked seasonal variation in their morphogenic response under in vitro conditions. Maximum response was obtained from the beginning of May to the end of July, followed by a gradual decline, finally dropping to zero from October to February. The explants induced multiple shoots only on cytokinin-containing medium. Several cytokinins [
20541051|Commercial micropropagation of sugarcane is largely determined by the clonal fidelity and the cost of plants produced. Rapid production of plants in vitro reduces the frequency of offtypes in many species. By exploiting the concept of transverse thin cell layer culture, we have developed a rapid, high frequency direct plant regeneration system, called SmartSett, for commercial sugarcane cultivars grown in Australia. Similar to conventional micropropagation, labour remains the major cost of this plant production system. Hence, to reduce the labour component, we have integrated the SmartSett system with the RITA temporary immersion bioreactor. Thin transverse leaf sections or fragmented leaves cultured on agar-based SmartSett shoot induction medium were used as the starting material for RITA. Shoot initiation on semi-solid medium prior to transferring to RITA, culture immersion frequency, explant size and genotype determined the productivity (number of plants produced per unit culture) of the system. Results obtained with cultivar Q165 indicate that explants cultured for 45 d on SmartSett shoot induction medium were the most prolific, producing on average 275 shoots per vessel after 45 d of culture in RITA with 1 min immersion every 12 or 24 h. Using the fragmented tissue, 14-d-old explants and 3-mm leaf tissue fragments were the most productive. Experiments with three cultivars (Q117, Q165 and Q205) showed that RITA culture conditions need to be optimised for each cultivar for maximum plant production.
42568823|Nitric oxide (NO) plays diverse roles in the growth and development of plants. The effects of a NO donor, sodium nitroprusside (SNP), on shoot multiplication and regeneration of Vanilla planifolia Andrews have been studied. Nodal segments of V. planifolia were used as expiants to initiate shoots. The number of shoots per expiant showed a significant increase in the presence of SNP and more than 93% of expiants formed shoots. Supplementation of 10.0 M SNP to Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium containing 1.0 mg/L 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP) produced the highest number of shoots per expiant (10.33) after 60 d of culture. However, in this treatment, shoot length (3.76 cm) was less than in the other treatments, except for the plant growth regulator-free MS medium. MS medium containing only 1.0 mg/L BAP produced the highest shoot length (4.49 cm) with a mean number of 6.26 shoots per expiant. These findings indicate that NO stimulated shoot development and may be considered as an intermediary of adventitious shoot regeneration, as has been suggested for other plant species.
42568439|Studies on the mass production of high-quality plantlets in Gypsophila paniculata L. using a bioreactor and microponic system (a hydroponic system in which micropropagation shoots are planted) indicated that both aeration treatments, in which bioreactors were aerated from the top of expiants by sparger (AS) and by tub (AT), were more effective than unaerated treatment for shoot proliferation and growth, and the maximum shoots (15.7 shoots per expiant) with low hyperhydricity rate (2.9%) were found in the AS group. The ex vitro culture was more efficient for rooting when compared to the in vitro culture; the better shoot and root growth was obtained in the ex vitro culture, with rooting rate reaching 100% after 20 d of culture, but only 65% of m vitro shoots rooted; all stomata of ex vitro shoots closed, and their length was more than their width, but the stomata in in vitro shoots were all opened, the length close to the width. Furthermore, the stomata numbers were less in ex vitro (67.8) than in vitro (267.2). The survival rate of ex vitro plants reached 83.3% when plantlets derived in vitro and ex vitro were transferred to pots, while only 23.3% of in vitro plantlets survived. During ex vitro rooting with the microponic system, foam as the supporter material, 90 molm-s- of light, and 80 shoots of planting density were favorable for shoot and root growth. The combination of bioreactor and microponic systems is an efficient way to produce high-quality plantlets of G. paniculata. Their application can reduce costs during large-scale industrial production.
42568713|An efficient root induction system has been established for in vitro-regenerated Jatropha curcas L. shoots. Callus formation on shoots transferred to auxin containing medium was found to be a prominent and recurrent problem for rooting of in vitro-cultivated J. curcas. In particular, the type of auxins and cytokinins applied in the culture media were shown to strongly influence the severity of callus formation. Shoots cultivated on meta-methoxytopolin riboside (MemTR) were free of callus and produced elongated stems and well-developed leaves in comparison to the cytokinins benzyl adenine, zeatin, and thidiazuron. Subsequent root induction experiments were performed with shoots precultured on MemTR-containing medium. Shoots were excised and transferred to Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with different concentrations of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), and ot-naphtaleneacetic acid (NAA). The induction of excessive callus formation was avoided only on IBA-containing medium. The optimum rooting medium with good root induction (35%) and 1.2 roots per shoot contained half-strength MS salts supplemented with 2.5 M IBA. The same medium supplemented with 0.25% (w/v) activated charcoal produced 46% rooted shoots. Further improvement of rooting was obtained by transferring in vitro grown shoots to woody plant medium containing phloroglucinol (PG). In the presence of 2.5 M IBA and 238 M PG, 83% of the shoots rooted with on average 3.1 roots per shoot. We also analyzed the impact of light quality on the rooting capacity of Jatropha in vitro grown shoots. In general, lightemitting diodes (LEDs) light sources were less efficient for root induction. Red LED light provided the most favorable growth conditions, inducing a rooting response in 65% of the shoots, which produced on average 5.5 roots per shoot. These results indicate that adventitious rooting in J. curcas is under control of photoreceptors and that optimal rooting requires fine-tuning of the salt concentration, auxin, and cytokinin balance and application of synergistic compounds.
4293597|The influence of different adjuvants, activated charcoal (AC), casein hydrolyzate (CH), coconut water (CW), polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP), and triiodobenzoic acid (TIBA), has been assessed on the shoot production potential of the nodal explants derived from in vitro-raised male and female jojoba (Simmondsia chinensis) shoots. Nodal explants of each sex were cultured separately on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with different levels of AC, CW, CH, PVP, and TIBA either alone or along with optimum levels of
20171624|Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) markers were employed to detect genetic variation among species of Papaver (section Oxytona) and assess genetic fidelity between in vitro cell lines of Papaver bracteatum and mature plants derived from the propagation of their callus cultures. Regenerated plants exhibited morphological and phytochemical characteristics dissimilar to those of their source material. Thebaine, the dominant alkaloid produced by Papaver bracteatum, was not detected in capsules from mature regenerated accessions, indicating that there may have been a loss of genetic uniformity. Instead, the dominant alkaloid produced by the regenerated plant was shown to be isothebaine (by TLC and GC/MS), a metabolic characteristic of P. pseudo-orientale. A Neighbor-Joining tree constructed from AFLP fingerprints distinctly separates the three species of Oxytona while firmly grouping the in vitro-cultured plants with P. pseudo-orientale. Additionally, phytochemical data and chromosome counts indicate that the seed used to initiate cultures was of hybrid origin and that the loss in genetic uniformity was not due to somaclonal variation occurring during the in vitro culture process. AFLP fingerprinting was therefore able to differentiate Oxytona species and investigate allopolyploidy in closely related Papaver species.
20171607| Development of efficient in vitro propagation systems for Pelecyphora aselliformis Ehrenberg and P. strobiliformis Werdermann, two endangered Mexican species of cacti, are described. Multiple shoot formation from areoles of in vitro-germinated plantlets was achieved in two types of explants (apical and transversal) cultured in Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal media supplemented with 30 or 50 gl sucrose, 10 gl agar and various treatments with cytokinins. Shoot production in these proliferation media was evaluated after one (60 d) and three (180 d) culture cycles. In P. aselliformis 13.7 shoots per explant were produced after the first cycle using apical explants in medium with 8.8 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 30 gl sucrose. In P. strobiliformis the highest proliferation rate (12.4 shoots per explant) was reached using 8.8 M BA and 50 gl sucrose with shoot transverse segments as explants. After the third proliferation cycle, 128.1 and 136.3 shoots per explant were obtained in P. aselliformis and P. strobiliformis, respectively. The shoots were elongated in MS basal medium with 3 gl activated charcoal and rooted in MS basal media with indoleacetic acid (2.85 or 5.71 M) or indolebutyric acid (2.46 or 4.90 M). On average, rooting efficiency was 89% for P. aselliformis and 87% for P. strobiliformis. The survival frequency of the plants once transferred to soil was on average 88%. 
23255675|Xyris tennesseensis is a critically endangered species native to the southeastern USA. A micropropagation protocol was developed which may assist in the safeguarding and augmentation of dwindling natural populations of this ecologically and medically valuable plant. Four different batches of seeds were sterilized using hydrogen peroxide and germinated in vitro on modified one third-strength Murashige and Skoog medium. Shoot multiplication from seedling tissue was obtained using modified one third-strength Murashige and Skoog medium containing 1 mg/l kinetin and 0.10.5 mg/l -naphthaleneacetic acid. Optimal shoot size and sustainable multiplication rates of three to five per 2-mo subculture occurred on medium containing 0.30.4 mg/l -naphthaleneacetic acid. Shoots rooted successfully when placed on growth regulator-free medium for 10 d followed by transfer to greenhouse soil under high humidity. Use of seed cryopreservation resulted in significant increases in germination compared to control treatments with average germination rates of 97%. Shoot tip cultures from soil-grown plants of X. tennesseensis and Xyris spathifolia were also developed using the above protocols. Plant tissue culture tools will assist in the multiplication, long-term storage, and conservation of these rare and valuable plants as well as provide a template for the micropropagation of other Xyris species.
20064938|The heat shock (HS) response in callus cultures of the ornamental plant Gerbera jamesonii H. Bolus var. hybrida was analyzed. A HS at 35 C or 40 C for 4 h induced (a) the synthesis of several heat shock proteins (HSPs), especially in the small molecular weight range and some spots corresponding to HSP70 components, and (b) an increase in the steady state levels of some specific mRNAs. At the nonstressing temperature (26 C), a sustainable level of translation for HSP70 was indeed carried out, as confirmed by immunological analysis with a monoclonal antibody against cotton HSP70. The steady state levels of mRNAs measured before and after a HS by Northern hybridization showed an increase with the heterologous probes HSP17.4, HSP17.6, and HSP21, whereas the probes HSC70 and HSP70 did not show any difference between the levels of control and HS-mRNAs. A pretreatment at 35 C, which induced a set of HSPs in the callus cultures, decreased the cell damage upon exposure to a temperature of 45 C as determined either with a regrowth test or by the tetrazolium reduction assay. Typically, as with the whole plants, callus cultures of Gerbera jamesonii possessed the ability to respond to HS both by inducing HSPs and by developing an acquired thermotolerance.
41318716|The objective of this study was to establish a cryopreservation protocol for sour orange (Citrus aurantium L.). Cryopreservation was carried out via encapsulation dehydration, vitrification, and encapsulation vitrification on shoot tips excised from in vitro cultures. Results indicated that a maximum of 83% survival and 47% regrowth of encapsulateddehydrated and cryopreserved shoot tips was obtained with 0.5 M sucrose in the preculture medium and further dehydration for 6 h to attain 18% moisture content. Dehydration of encapsulated shoot tips with silica gel for 2 h resulted in 93% survival but only 37% regrowth of cryopreserved shoot tips. After preculturing with 0.5 M sucrose, 80% of the vitrified cryopreserved shoots survived when 2 M sucrose plus 10% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) was used as a cryoprotectant for 20min at 25C. Survival and regrowth of vitrified cryopreserved shoot tips were 67% and 43%, respectively, when 0.4 M sucrose plus 2 M glycerol was used as a loading solution followed by application of 100% plant vitrification solution (PVS2) for 20 min. Increased duration of exposure to the loading solution up to 60 min increased survival (83%) and regrowth (47%) of cryopreserved shoot tips. With encapsulation-vitrification, dehydration with 100% PVS2 for 2 or 3 h at 0C resulted in 50 or 57% survival and 30 or 40% regrowth, respectively, of cryopreserved shoot tips.
4293815|Few studies have focused on the effect of a broad range of phytohormones on growth and secondary metabolism of a single hairy root species. We measured growth, development, and production of the antimalarial drug, artemisinin, in Artemisia annua hairy roots in response to the five main hormones: auxins, cytokinins, ethylene, gibberellins (GA), and abscisic acid (ABA). Single roots grown in six-well plates in medium B5 with
4293917|Callus cultures of Adhatoda zeylanica Medicus were established from leaf and petiole explants. Accumulation of a bioactive pyrroloquinazoline alkaloid, vasicine, in callus cultures was detected and confirmed by thin layer chromatography, electron-ionization mass spectra,
29736222|The present study describes the micropropagation of Swertia chirayita, an endangered medicinal herb of the temperate Himalayas, through axillary multiplication from 4-wk-old seedling-derived nodal explants. We obtained 4.5-fold multiplication every 4 wk on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 4 M benzyl amino purine (BA) and 1.5 M 6-(,-dimethylallylamino) purine (2iP). Rooting was optimized on modified MS medium supplemented with 1 M naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) and 500 mg l of activated charcoal (AC). A success rate of 94% was obtained by in vitro hardening in the growth-room and by ex vitro hardening in greenhouse conditions. The present study can serve as a tool for the mass multiplication of elite genotypes of this critically endangered species and can also be utilized for multiplying large numbers of quality planting material for the replantation in their natural habitat. This approach can also help meet the requirements of the growing pharmaceutical industry by ensuring the regular supply of authentic planting material.
29736201|Micropropagation methods were developed for the three French varieties of olive (Olea europaea L.), Aglandau and Tanche, that have the Appelation d'Origine Contrle (AOC) status and one ecotype (05300, Laragne, France). Explants consisting of partially lignified nodal segments were collected from rejuvenated glasshouse-grown plant material. Nodal explants with axillary buds were cultured on different media. For AOC varieties, olive medium modified (OM mod) to contain half the concentration of macroelements was the most efficient in inducing bud break and growth when supplemented with 30 g 1 sucrose and 4 mg l zeatin. The resulting shoot buds were further multiplied and maintained on OM mod medium. Rooting was best achieved on OM supplemented with 4 mg l indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). For the Laragne ecotype, maximal shoot proliferation occurred when explants were cultured on woody plant medium supplemented with 15 g 1 sucrose and 0.1 mg l zeatin. Efficient rooting was achieved with 1 mg l IBA combined with 0.75 mg l naphthaleneacetic acid. After acclimatization in the glasshouse, survival rates ranged from 57 to 92%, depending on the genotype. Inoculation of Laragne ecotype microplantlets with the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus mosseae significantly improved plant survival and subsequent plant development and growth.
20461707|An efficient in vitro plant regeneration system was established from callus culture of Scopolia parviflora. Callus was induced from adventitious roots on B5 medium with 0.45-9.04 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). In vitro plantlet regeneration was achieved on B5 medium supplemented with 44.38 M benzyladenine (BA), 3% sucrose, and 0.38% gelrite. Plantlets were transplanted to artificial soil and grown to maturity successfully in a greenhouse. The tropane alkaloid contents in regenerated plants were analyzed using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and were found to be higher than those of adventitious roots, native growing plants, and acclimated plants. Regenerated plants from organogenic callus cultures produced a greater amount of tropane alkaloids.
20064970|Micropropagation of Uraria picta, a leguminous herb, was achieved through axillary bud culture and nodal callus culture. Bud break was best when nodes were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (1962) (MS) medium supplemented with 2.6 M -naphthalene acetic acid and 4.4 M N-benzyladenine. Optimum shoot multiplication was observed in adenine sulphate at 2.47 M concentration. Competent callus was initiated around the nodal ring of the explant on the basal medium supplemented with cytokinins and auxin (-naphthalene acetic acid and N-benzyladenine), which regenerated into new profusely growing shoots on transferring to 0.13 M N-benzyladenine. Shoots elongated to 5 node length with 1.11 M N-benzyladenine were rooted on half-strength MS basal medium. The rooted plants were successfully established with 80% survival. About 400 such plants were transferred to the field.
41496448|Effective seed storage methods for orchid species provide a unique opportunity to preserve large amounts of germplasm. Early evaluation of the physiological status of seeds is useful for selecting seed lots for conservation. To score seed quality, seeds from nine Cattleya species (Cattleya granulosa, Cattleya hegeriana, Cattleya intermedia, Cattleya mossiae, Cattleya purpurata, Cattleya sanguiloba, Cattleya tennis, Cattleya tigrina and Cattleya walkeriana) were germinated on Knudson medium and viability was measured using a tetrazolium (TZ) test following pre-conditioning in a 10% sucrose solution, both before and after storage at -18C for 3 mo. Tetrazolium test results were quantified using digital imaging of germinating seeds on a flatbed scanner. Seed viability (with or without pre-conditioning in sucrose), germination, Germination Velocity Index (GVI) and the correlation between viability measurements and germination were also evaluated. Both the tetrazolium test and the germination results showed that there was no loss of viability after storage, although in five seed lots, the GVI decreased. Pre-conditioning improved the correlation between viability exhibited in the tetrazolium test and seed germination. Image analysis proved to be a powerful tool for analysing these small seeds.
40981331|Response surface methodology (RSM) is a collection of techniques useful for analyzing and optimizing problems where several explanatory covariates influence a response. Although this technique is extensively used in various mixture experiments, its application in standardization of micropropagation protocols is limited. The theoretical developments of RSM are usually concerned with continuous data; hence, linear model theory becomes relevant. In plant tissue culture, in which the response variables are mostly numerical data, the development of RSM in a generalized linear model (GLM) setup is of interest from both a theoretical as well as an application perspective. In the present paper, RSM, as applicable for count data, has been used for modeling, analyzing, and optimizing in vitro regeneration of multiple shoots of Basilicum polystachyon, an important medicinal plant. The specific issues addressed herein are the determination of the optimum concentration of plant growth regulators (i.e., the range of variation in dosages of each covariate) at which the regeneration potential of shoot tip expiants is expected to increase, selection of the appropriate growth function (response function) of shoot tip, and determination of the optimum levels of the explanatory variables (i.e., the different combination of dosages of various control factors) for experimentation. According to the present analysis, the optimum level combinations of growth regulators for regeneration of multiple shoots from shoot tip expiants of B. polystachyon is 8.19 M benzyladenine and 2.36 M naphthalene acetic acid, with a response of approximately 12 regenerated shoots.
41432440|In vitro propagation of three rare, endangered and endemic rhododendron speciesRhododendron dalhousiae var. rhabdotum, R. elliottii, and R. johnstoneanumwas attained. Nodal explants were used for multiple shoot induction studies. Three cytokinins (isopentenyladenine, benzyladenine, and kinetin) were evaluated in all three species. Isopentenyladenine performed better in all three species, especially at the concentration of 39.36 M. Testing of combinations of growth regulators revealed that explants grown on Anderson medium supplemented with 39.36 M isopentenyladenine and 4.90 M ndole butyric acid gave optimum results with 100% multiple shoot induction, 18 shoots per explant, and shoot length of 2.07 cm with R. johnstoneanum. Indole butyric acid was found to be the best auxin for root formation. Around 60% of the in vitroraised plants of R. elliottii, R. johnstoneanum, and R. dalhousiae var. rhabdotum were able to establish ex vitro.
20461757|The activity of the main enzymes related to the sucrose metabolism, photosynthesis, and sucrose concentration were studied in sugarcane (Saccharum spp hybrid) plantlets. Acclimatization was developed in two steps. (1) Light intensity of 1,000 mol m s and 90% relative humidity during the first 21 d; followed by 2,000 mol m s and approximately 80% of relative humidity. All measurements were carried out at the end of rooting phase concomitant with day 0 of acclimatization and at 7-d intervals thereafter (0, 7, 14, 21, 28, 35, 42 d). As the in vitro plantlets were transferred to the acclimatization phase, photosynthesis increased significantly during the first 7 d. After this period, the increase was constant with only a small but nonsignificant decline after being transferred to the uncontrolled external conditions. The activity of the sucrose synthase began to show a decrease, starting from day 7, and was related to the changes that began to happen in these plants from its adaptation to new ex vitro conditions. Due to the increase of fresh weight favored by the high light intensity and lower relative humidity, an increase of the sucrose phosphate synthase activity was observed. The maximum activity of the acid and neutral invertases was reached at 14 and 21 d, respectively, after 21 d of acclimatization period. There was a marked tendency for the activity of both enzymes to decrease. The sucrose content was decreased only in the first 7 d. The metabolism of sugarcane plantlets seemed to be susceptible to the environmental changes during the acclimatization phase but did not contribute to inhibitory factors for normal development.
20064981|An efficient procedure is outlined for in vitro regeneration of an epiphytic orchid, Cymbidium aloifolium (L.) Sw. using rhizomes developed from seeds. Murashige and Skoog's (1962) medium (MS) containing indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), or 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) stimulated growth and proliferation of rhizomes with NAA being most effective at
24596340|Several dehydration protocols were evaluated for their ability to cryopreserve intact seeds and excised embryonic axes of Mimusops elengi and Manilkara zapota (Sapotaceae). Both interspecific and intraspecific variations in cryotolerance were found. M. zapota embryonic axes were more tolerant of cryopreservation than those of M. elengi, and showed higher desiccation tolerance, higher post-thawing survival and development, and a much wider range of moisture contents for cryopreservation. Maximum development rates were 94% and 27% for M. zapota and M. elengi, respectively. Intact seeds of both species tolerated desiccation to low moisture levels, but were sensitive to liquid nitrogen exposure, and cryopreserved seeds failed to germinate. Assessment of developing embryos excised from cryopreserved seeds associated nonviability of cotyledons and plumules with germination failure. Other structures survived at variable rates; most hypocotyls and radicles (up to 76% and 98% for M. elengi and M. zapota, respectively) were viable. The different cryotolerance between hypocotyls and cotyledons is a critical cause for failure in cryopreservation, contributing to the difficulty in developing protocols for such intermediate oily seeds.
20171620|Somatic embryogenic callus was induced on two induction media, B5h and SH4K. Embryos formed on the callus induced on B5h medium when the callus was still on the induction medium. On the other hand, embryos could not form on the callus induced on SH4K medium unless the callus was transferred to a growth regulator-free medium. Callus induced and maintained on B5h medium lost embryogenic capability quickly during the subculture. Callus induced and maintained on SH4K medium, however, consistently remained highly embryogenic. The callus mass showed steady increase during its maintenance on SH4K medium. The embryos induced on SH4K medium showed vigorous germination. Normal and fully fertile plants were recovered from the embryos developed from the callus maintained on SH4K medium.
20461597|This study reports the analysis of secondary metabolites of gentiopicrin, swertiamarin, and sweroside in shoot and root cultures of yellow wort (Blackstonia perfoliata), which were initiated from seeds, grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium. Shoot cultures of B. perfoliata were inoculated with suspension of Agrobacterium rhizogenes strain A4M70GUS and hairy roots appeared at the infected sites after 3 wk of inoculation. Tips of adventitious roots of B. perfoliata were grown on hormone-free MS medium and three clones of the transformed roots regenerated shoots spontaneously. Gentiopicrin, swertiamarin, and sweroside were detected in both roots and shoots of B. perfoliata in vitro and in vivo, but gentiopicrin was found to be the major compound. The concentration of growth regulator in the medium affected the production of secoiridoids in B. perfoliata in vitro, where the level of gentiopicrin was higher in plants grown in the presence of indole-3-butyric acid, but the presence of 6-benzylaminopurine was inhibitory to secoiridoid production.
23326879|Citrus jambhiri (rough lemon) is considered a major rootstock source for a number of Citrus species. A simple method for micropropagation from nodal segments is reported. Nodal segments of C. jambhiri were inoculated on MS medium supplemented with different concentrations and combinations of 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP), kinetin, and N6-(2-isopentenyl) adenosine (2iP). Maximum multiple shoot regeneration response (75 %) was observed with BAP at 3 mg l -1 . Shoots were multiplied for 30 d on fresh medium with similar composition. A total of 67 % of the cultures showed multiplication with the optimum number of shoots (4.02) and height of shoots (1.81 cm) with BAP (3 mg l -1 ) alone. Maximum rooting response (87 %) was observed with naphthaleneacetic acid at 0.5 mg l -1 . Transverse sections of shoot stems obtained in vivo (sampled from seedlings) and in vitro (regenerated from nodal segments), showed similar anatomies. Randomly amplified polymorphic DNA analysis confirmed that all the regenerated plants were genetically identical to their donor plant, suggesting absence of detectable genetic variation in the regenerated plantlets.
4292976|A rapid regeneration system was used for studies of Agrobacterium-mediated transformation in Pisum sativum L. Cotyledonary node expiants were inoculated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains containing binary vectors carrying genes for nopaline synthase (NOS),
4293467|With an ever-increasing frequency, it has become desirable to express many foreign genes in the same transgenic plant. A range of approaches to this problem have been explored in the period since gene transfer was developed as a useful tool in plant science. These have ranged from assembly of multiple transcription units on a single DNA vector, to the execution of several independent transformations involving single genes followed by successive rounds of hybridization to yield plant lines with the desired combination of genes, to cotransformation with multiple plasmids followed by molecular screening to identify desired transgenic plants. Recent developments have provided new alternatives to the problem of the expression of multiple foreign genes in plants, approaches that revolve around the expression of polycistronic mRNAs. This review summarizes the current status of the area of polycistronic gene expression in transgenic plants, within the context of multigene expression.
4293934|In its androgenic response, maize is considered to be a recalcitrant plant. We used mechanically isolated microspores of maize genotype A18 to establish a responsive microspore culture of maize. Morphological events occurring during the first days of maize androgenesis in a microspore culture were observed and described, and some morphological markers for distinguishing between embryogenic microspores and nonembryogenic microspores were identified. It was found that the enlargement of microspores during the first days in culture and the 'star-like' organization of the cytoplasm inside the microspore are connected with reprogramming of the developmental pathway in maize microspores. Some differences were also found in the surface wall architecture of embryogenic microspores. Fertile plants were successfully recovered from microspore-originated structures.
4293165|Callus of the mangrove plant, Sonneratia alba J. Smith, established from pistils of flower buds were cultured on solid Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 0 to 500 mM NaCl. Maximum growth was observed with 50 mM NaCl, and net growth of callus occurred for concentrations up to 200 mM NaCl. At 500 mM NaCl, growth of callus was completely inhibited, although a part of the tissue was still alive after 30 d. Cellular levels of Na
4293516|A procedure for the regeneration of complete plantlets of Tylophora indica from cultured leaf callus via somatic embryogenesis is described. Callus induction from leaf explants was on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with different concentrations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D;
29736226|Mammillaria species are the most numerous within Cactaceae family, and some of them are threatened with extinction as a result of human activities. In this work, results of in vitro propagation are presented for ten Mammillaria species, testing 20 combinations of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and kinetin. Best results on shoot formation were obtained using kinetin at two levels: 27.9 and 46.5 M. All IAA levels tested were able to induce de novo shoot formation in M. bocasana, M. densispina, M. hahniana, M. hutchisoniana, M. orcutii, M. pectinifera, M. perbella, M. picta, M. rhodantha, and M. zephyranthoides. Depending on the IAA level tested, four responding groups were observed concerning their highest shoot-formation number. For all species, the highest average of shoot formation was achieved with 5.7:46.5 or 11.4:46.5 M IAA/kinetin, yielding 4.8 and 4.7 shoots per explant, respectively, in 60 d. Rooting of regenerated shoots was achieved by leaving the explants in their shoot-induction medium or transferring them to half-strength MS medium. Hardening of regenerated plants was successfully achieved by planting them in peat moss substrate after a desiccation treatment at room temperature for 3 d.
29736172|Rooting in vitro was examined for lentil nodal segments to test a recently published conclusion that shoot orientation has an effect on rooting. As is the case for many species, roots initiated and grew only at the proximal end of the microcutting regardless of its orientation. When the proximal end was in agar (a hypoxic environment) the rooting percentage was low (9-25%) even when the orientation of the microcutting was altered by inverting the culture tube. In contrast, when the proximal end of the microcutting was in an aerobic environment (from the shoot being placed upside down in agar medium or placed normally or upside down in an aerated medium), rooting percentages were higher (62-100%). Medium aeration at the proximal end of the microcutting is more important than shoot orientation for in vitro rooting of lentil microcuttings.
4293138|Development of asparagus microspores in cold-treated buds of varying sizes and shed microspores from these buds in in vitro culture were observed cytologically for the G459 genotype. Before cold pretreatment, more than 75% of the microspores in flower buds of the 1.4-1.6, 1.7-1.9, 2.0-2.2, 2.3-2.5, and 2.6-2.8 mm size classes were at the early-, mid-, late-uninucleate, early-, and late-binucleate stages, respectively. After 7 d in cold treatment, percentages of microspores at different stages changed in all flower buds. Most notable was the appearance of binucleate microspores resulting from symmetric rather than asymmetric division. For flower buds of 1.7-1.9, 2.0-2.2, and 2.3-2.5 mm size classes, 4.9%, 27.2%, and 11.4% of the microspores had divided symmetrically, respectively. When microspores from buds of each size category were cultured in androgenesis induction medium, only microspores completing symmetric pollen mitosis I during cold treatment were observed to divide further, and calluses were only obtained from microspores of flower bud size classes where symmetric divisions were observed after several days of cold treatment. Significant correlations existed among microspore callus yield, the percentage of late-uninucleate microspores in vivo before cold treatment, and the frequency of symmetric pollen mitosis I after 7 d of cold treatment. Consequently, asparagus microspore androgenesis may occur through one developmental pathway, where a symmetric first mitotic division is a prerequisite for continued development.
4293912|An efficient and reproducible protocol for mass propagation of Eclipta alba (L.) Hassk, an important medicinal plant, was standardized by culturing shoot tips and nodal segments taken from in vitro raised plants. Maximum shoot proliferation occurred when the explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
41432438|A variety of selection systems have been developed for transformation of forage crops. To compare the most frequently used systems, we tested three selectable marker genes for their selection efficiency under four selection procedures for the production of transgenic tall fescue. Embryognie calluses initiated from mature embryos were bombarded with three constructs containing either the phosphinothricin acety  transfrase (bar) gene, the hygromycin phosphotransferase (hpt) gene or the neomycin phosphotransferase II (nptll) gene. Transformation efficiency was strongly influenced by the selectable marker gene, selection procedure and genotype. The highest transformation efficiency was observed using the bar gene in combination with bialaphos. Average transformation efficiencies with bialaphos, phosphinothricin (glufosinate), hygromycin and paromomycin selection across the two callus lines used in the experiments were 9.4%, 4.4%, 5.2% and 1.6%, respectively. Southern blot analysis revealed the independent nature of the tested transgenic plants and a complex transgene integration pattern with multiple insertions.
4293603| The effect of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) on lateral root formation was investigated in adventitious root culture of Panax ginseng. Lateral root formation was affected by IBA (24.6 M) or NAA (9.8M). Lateral root primordia emerged from the explant root pericycle after about 7 d of culture when the roots were cultured on Schenk and Hildebrandt (SH) medium supplemented with 24.6 M IBA or 9.8 M NAA. However, no changes were observed in the explant root pericycle on auxin-free medium. The IBA treatment was more effective for lateral root induction and root growth compared to NAA. In morphological and histological aspects, the lateral roots formed under IBA treatment developed normally, while NAA-treated roots exhibited abnormal growth. The accumulation of total saponin was greater in roots treated with IBA than with NAA. 
41496514|Benzylisoquinoline alkaloids are a large and structurally diverse group of natural plant products that includes many compounds with potent biological activities, including the antimicrobial agent sanguinarine. The putative subcellular localization of the sanguinarine pathway was determined using in-frame N-terminal fusions between cDNAs encoding nine consecutive biosynthetic enzymes and the gene encoding the green fluorescent protein (GFP). Expression constructs were introduced into cultured opium poppy cells by particle bombardment, and the localization of fusion proteins was visualized using epifluorescence microscopy. GFP fusions with two O-methyltransferases and two N-methyltransferases in the sanguinarine pathway all produced non-targeted fluorescence in the cytosol and nucleus. Interspersed between these soluble proteins are five membrane-bound cytochromes P450. Corresponding cDNAs are available for three P450s, all of which produced fluorescence when fused to GFP in association with the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Two enzymes with suggested or known N-terminal signal peptides were initially associated with the ER, but were subsequently transported to the central vacuole suggesting their occurrence in the ER lumen. The alternating localization of these biosynthetic enzymes to three subcellular compartments indicates extensive trafficking of pathway intermediates across the endomembranes and suggests a key role for compartmentalization in the regulation of sanguinarine metabolism.
4293675|Cotyledonary Quercus robur L. somatic embryos from two cell lines were encapsulated in 4% (w/v) sodium alginate. An artificial endosperm was provided by the addition of P
4293488|Two different promoters, a cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter with a 5'- untranslated leader sequence from alfalfa mosaic virus RNA4 (designated as CaMV 35S/AMV) and an E-8 fruit-ripening-specific promoter, were compared to evaluate their effects on expression of the uidA reporter gene in transgenic tomato plants. In order to generate sufficient numbers of transgenic tomato plants, both a reliable regeneration system and an efficient Agrobacterium transformation protocol were developed using 8-d-old cotyledons of tomato (Lycopersicon ecsulentum Mill. cv. Swifty Belle). Two sets of constructs, both derivatives of the binary vector pBI121, were used in transformation of tomato whereby the uidA gene was driven either by the CaMV 35S/AMV or the E-8 fruit-ripening-specific promoter. Southern blot hybridization confirmed the stable integration of the chimeric uidA gene into the tomato genome. Fruit and leaf tissues were collected from T
4292999|Callus cultures were initiated from immature embryos of one Triticum aestivum and three T. durum cultivars. Growing morphogenic calli were exposed to different concentrations of NaCl (0, 0.3, 0.5, and 0.7%) added to the culture medium during two subsequent subcultures (4 wk each). The growth rate of the calli was determined by the relative fresh weight callus growth (RFWCG). The callus growth of all investigated genotypes was slightly changed in the presence of 0.3 and 0.5% NaCl, but strongly inhibited by 0.7% NaCl. Selected NaCl-tolerant clones were isolated and plants were regenerated on MS-based regeneration medium without NaCl. The regeneration capacity of the selected calli was highly reduced compared to the control. The highest number of regenerants was scored for cv. Gladiator (T. aestivum). All regenerated plants were morphologically normal and many developed to maturity and set seeds. Seedlings from the R
4293528|The expression of the green-fluorescent protein (GFP) gene from Aequorea victoria (jellyfish) was analyzed by transient and stable expression in sweet potato Ipomoea batatas L. (Lam.) cv. Beauregard tissues by electroporation and particle bombardment. Leaf and petiole segments from in vitro-mised young plantlets were used for protoplast isolation and electroporation. Embryogenic callus was also produced from leaf segments for particle bombardment experiments. A buffer solution containing
4293566| An in vitro culture procedure was established for somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration from callus cultures of the important palm 'betel nut' (Areca catechu L.). Segments of zygotic embryos of Areca catechu L. were cultured on Murashige and Skoog basal medium supplemented with dicamba (9.05, 18.1, 27.15, and 36.2 M). After 7-8 wk in darkness, wounded regions of explants formed callus with yellow, soft, glutinous structures. Proliferation and maintenance of callus was on the same dicamba-containing medium. With regular subculture every 8 wk, the callus showed pale yellow, compact and nodular structures. During subculture, somatic embryos were formed spontaneously from nodular callus tissues within 2-4 mo. The embryos developed into plantlets after 10 wk of culture on basal medium free of plant growth regulators. After subculturing every month for 3 mo., the plantlets were transferred to containers for acclimatization in the greenhouse. The survival rate was 24%. 
4293320|Drought, extreme temperatures and high salinity are major limiting factors for plant growth and crop productivity. In their quest to feed the ever-increasing world population, agricultural scientists have to contend with these adverse environmental factors. If crops can be redesigned to better cope with abiotic stress, agricultural production can be increased dramatically. Recent advances in understanding crop abiotic stress resistance mechanisms and the advent of molecular genetic technology allow us to address these issues much more efficiently than in the past. This paper reviews the most significant achievements of the genetic engineering approach to improving plant abiotic stress resistance and discusses future prospects in transgenic research. Improved resistance to drought, salinity and extreme temperatures has been observed in transgenic plants that express/overexpress genes regulating osmolytes, specific proteins, antioxidants, ion homeostasis, transcription factors and membrane composition. Although the results are not always consistent, these studies collectively foretell a scenario where biotechnology will arm our future crops with new tactics to survive in hostile environments. Further experiments are needed to determine if the achieved increases in stress tolerance are applicable to agriculture.
4293061|Adventitious shoots of sweetpotato (Ipomoea batatas L. Lam.) were produced in vitro using a two-stage culture method. Petiole explants were incubated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (
20461679|The effect of gibberellic acid (GA) was tested on germination of coconut zygotic embryos, their conversion into plantlets and ex vitro survival. There were four treatments consisting of 5 wk of culture in semi-solid medium or liquid medium, with or without GA. Embryos were then transferred to GA free-liquid medium for the rest of a 32-wk culture. Germination and conversion percentages were higher in semi-solid medium than in liquid medium, and with both media percentages increased with GA treatment (with the exception of the highest GA concentration). Embryos of two varieties (MGD and MYD) were used. The following are the results with MGD embryos. Optimum GA concentration in liquid medium was 0.46 M, with 80% germination (62% in the control without GA) and 4.6 M in semi-solid medium with 98% germination (71% in the control). With GA treatment, germination was also faster. Conversion in semi-solid medium with GA was 87% (60% in the control), and 45% in liquid medium with GA (25% in the control). Once the plantlets had at least three bifid leaves and three primary roots at the time of transfer to ex vitro, they survived independently of the treatment. When MYD embryos were used, germination and conversion percentages were higher in semi-solid medium than in liquid medium, and they increased when GA was used, although percentages were lower than those obtained with MGD embryos. The results showed that the use of GA benefited coconut embryos in culture because it favored germination and conversion to plants on semi-solid medium, and hence improved previous protocols.
4293931|The effects of 0, 5 and 10 Gy doses of gamma irradiation on the enhancement of embryogenesis and plant regeneration efficiency of three barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) genotypes, Igri, Arabi Abiad and AECS 76, were evaluated. Embryo yields at 5 and 10 Gy doses were significantly higher than those of the control (0Gy). This effect was genotype-dependent. The most responsive genotype was Igri, with 592.8 embryos 32 anthers exposed to 10 Gy. However, despite a high embryo induction rate, the green plant regeneration rate was low. Arabi Abiad had a higher ability to generate green plants produced from, with 28.13 plantlets obtained from 32 anthers at 10 Gy; irradiation had no significant effect on regeneration of Igri and AECS 76 genotypes. In general, the 10 Gy dose produced a much higher embryo yield than the 5 Gy dose. The root-tip chromosome mimber and the fertility of 298 regenerating green plants of cv. Igri revealed that 64% of the tested plants were spontaneously doubled haploids (DHs) and fertile.
4293311|Virus-infected plants are often symptomless and may be inadvertently used as explant sources in tissue culture research. Our objective was to determine the effect of virus infection on micropropagation. We studied the effects of single and multiple infections of three common raspberry viruses on the in vitro culture of 'Mailing Landmark' red raspberry (Rubus idaeus L.). Virus-infected raspberry plants were produced by leaf-graft inoculation from known-infected plants onto virus-free 'Mailing Landmark'. Single-virus source plants were infected with either tobacco streak ilarvirus (TSV), tomato ringspot nepovirus (TomRSV), or raspberry bushy dwarf idaeovirus (RBDV) and were free of other viruses as determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and bioassay. Virus-free, single, and multiple virus-infected 'Mailing Landmark' explants were initiated into culture and multiplied on Anderson's medium with
40981346|The production of phenolic metabolites has been optimized in parallel to sugarcane micropropagation in temporary immersion bioreactors (TIBs). Culturing micropropagated plants in 0.4% CO-rich air induced their photosynthetic activity by enhancing the change from a heterotrophic to a photomixotrophic metabolic stage. Under 0.4% CO enrichment, the transcript levels of both phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL EF189195) and ribulose-l, 5-biphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco CF576750) increased and were correlated to a 4.6-and 6.3-fold increase in the phenolic levels when plants were multiplied in 20 or 30 g/1 sucrose, respectively. A novel application of plant phenolic metabolites as elicitors of resistance to tomato bacterial wilt in the Solarium lycopersicum-Ralstonia solanacearum pathosystem has been identified. The culture media was collected, and the phenolics were sprayed onto tomato plants infected with R. solanacearum, eliciting and/or maintaining an early defense signaling mechanism that resulted in the protection of the plant against the tomato bacterial wilt disease. RT-PCR analyses confirmed that selected genes from defense-related pathways were differentially expressed between plants treated with sugarcane metabolites, non-treated pathogenfree plants, and non-treated plants inoculated with R. solanacearum.
4293594|The qualitative and quantitative composition of secondary metabolites was studied in the shoots and roots of Centaurium pulchellum cultured in vitro. Secoiridoids (gentiopicrin, swertiamarin, and sweroside) and xanthones (methylbellidifolin, demethyleustomin, and deccussatin) were isolated. Sweroside was found to be the major secoiridoid compound in the aerial parts of plants growing in nature, while swertiamarin dominated in plants cultured in vitro. In roots of all plants, genciopicrin was the major compound. Xanthone demethyleustomin was the major compound both in the shoots and roots of plants growing in nature and cultured in vitro. Different sugars (glucose, fructose, and sucrose) added in different concentrations in the medium affected the production of secondary compounds.
4293811|Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) haploids and doubled haploids have been used in breeding programs and genetic studies. Wheat haploids and doubled haploids via anther culture are usually produced by a multiple step culture procedure. We improved a wheat haploid and doubled haploid production system via anther culture in which plants are produced from microspore-derived embryos using one medium and one culture environment. In the improved protocol, tillers of donor plants were pretreated at 4 C for 1-2 wk before anthers were plated on a modified 85D12 basal medium with phenylacetic acid (PAA) and zeatin and cultured at 30 C with a 12-h daylength (
4293113|Brugmansia candida, an indigenous South American plant, produces the tropane alkaloids scopolamine and hyoscya-mine, which are widely employed in medicine as anticholinergic agents. In this research, hairy roots of Brugmansia candida, obtained through infection with Agrobacterium rhizogenes LBA 9402, were employed to produce these tropane alkaloids in vitro. The effects of different concentrations of
4293263| A 630-bp DNA fragment encoding a bovine milk protein, -casein, was cloned into a seed-specific lectin promoter expression cassette and introduced into soybean somatic embryos via particle bombardment. Four hygromycin-resistant embryogenic cell lines were selected. All four lines were positive for the -casein gene via Southern blot analysis; however, only one line did not show significant rearrangement of the -casein gene and/or lectin promoter. The presence of the -casein gene in the genome of the four plants regenerated from this culture was confirmed via Southern blot hybridization analysis. DNA blot experiments and progeny inheritance analysis indicated that the plants contain four to eight copies of the -casein gene and that the insertion occurred at a single genetic locus. Bovine -casein mRNA was highly expressed in developing cotyledons. A very low level of -casein mRNA was found in leaf tissues although endogenous lectin transcripts were not found in the same samples. Bovine -casein protein was expressed in cotyledons of transformed plants but was not detectable in leaf tissues of transformed plants by immunoblotting. Bovine -casein produced in the individual developing seed of the first generation of transgenic plants migrated as two closely spaced bands very similar to those of pure bovine -casein. This experiment represents the first report of the expression of a milk protein in soybean and opens the way for the general improvement of protein quality in soybean directed by seed-specific promoters. 
20064971|A micropropagation protocol was developed for Cinnamomum camphora (L.) Sieb., using as initial explants 3-5-mm shoot tips from newly emerged laterals of 2-yr-old trees. Performance of small shoot tips was compared with that of 2.0-cm nodal segments during subculture. Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) supplemented with different concentrations of N-benzyladenine (BA) or thidiazuron (TDZ) was used to examine shoot proliferation. In separate experiments, MS was supplemented with 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) for rooting of shoots, and the commercial preparation EM for prevention of hyperhydricity. BA stimulated shoot formation and callus development, whereas TDZ promoted only callus development. Both cytokinins induced hyperhydricity when small shoot tips were used, with severity being directly related to concentrations. Hyperhydricity was avoided in subcultures by using larger nodal segments. EM did not alter degree of hyperhydricity but suppressed callus development and strongly promoted shoot multiplication. The number of new shoots after a 6-wk subculture was 9 per nodal segment when supplemented solely with 4.4 M BA and 18 per segment when further supplemented with 1000 mg EM per l. Rooting of shoots occurred best when supplemented solely with 0.54 M NAA, averaging 7 roots per shoot in 4 wk. Ninety percent of rooted shoots survived transfer to the greenhouse.
4293451|Daylight instead of artificial light was exploited for the in vitro culture of banana. Tubular skylights rediverted natural light into an interior enclosed room whereby each skylight, available for ca. US$600, could sufficiently illuminate an area of 3-5 m2. The maintenance-free system allowed only a minimum of heat transfer and no cooling was necessary. The culture room required no electricity supply and under our conditions savings on costs for electricity of US$6 m wk were achieved, as compared to a standard growth room equipped with artificial lighting and controlled photoperiod and temperature regimes. Under natural light conditions, micropropagated plantlets were well developed at mean photosynthetic photon flux densities (PPFD) of
20461722|The capacity for indirect shoot organogenesis of leaf and root explants of four Dieffenbachia cultivars were examined on a modified Murashige and Skoog (MS; Physiol Plant 15:473-495, 1962) medium supplemented with different plant growth regulators in 112 combinations. Callus formation was only observed from leaf explants on MS supplemented with 1-10 M thidiazuron (TDZ) and 0.5-1.0 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) regardless of cultivars. The combination of 5 M TDZ and 1 M 2,4-D resulted in the greatest callus formation frequency among the four cultivars tested. Significant differences in callus and shoot formation from leaf explants were also observed among cultivars. Cultivars Camouflage, Camille, Octopus, and Star Bright produced green nodular, brown nodular, yellow friable, and green compact calli with corresponding maximum callus formation frequencies of 96%, 62%, 54%, and 52%, respectively. A maximum of 6.7 shoots/callus was observed in cv. Camouflage, followed by cvs. Camille and Star Bright at 3.7 and 3.5, respectively. Calli of cv. Octopus displayed no capacity for shoot organogenesis. Regardless of cultivar, callus formation was not observed on root explants. Regenerated shoots were successfully acclimatized in a shaded greenhouse condition with 100% survival.
4293793|A characteristic phenotype of highly embryogenic explants along with the location of embryogenesis- and transformation-competent cells/tissues on immature cotyledons of soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill.] under hygromycin selection was identified. This highly embryogenic immature cotyledon was characterized with emergence of somatic embryos and incidence of browning/necrotic tissues along the margins and collapsed tissues in the mid-region of an explant incubated upwards on the selection medium. The influences of various parameters on induction of somatic embryogenesis on immature cotyledons following Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation and selection were investigated. Using cotyledon explants derived from immature embryos of 5-8 mm in length, a 1:1 (v/v; bacterial cells to liquid D40 medium) concentration of bacterial suspension and 4-wk cocultivation period significantly increased the frequency of transgenic somatic embryos. Whereas, increasing the infection period of explants or subjecting explants to either wounding or acetosyringone treatments did not increase the frequency of transformation. An optimal selection regime was identified when inoculated immature cotyledons were incubated on either 10 or
41318707|Development of citrus somatic embryos initiated from embryognie callus generally results in abnormal morphogenesis of somatic embryos. To normalize development, glycerol-induced globular-stage somatic embryos of sweet orange [C.sinensis (L.) Osbeck cv. ' Hamlin'] were cultured on 6000-8000 MW cutoff cellulose acetate, > 400000MW cutoff cellulose acetate, nitrocellulose, polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF), cellulose filter paper, or positive or neutral charged nylon membranes. Only the two cellulose acetate membranes resulted in the development of normal, two-cotyledon, bipolar, heart-shaped embryos, and no aberrant teratoma-like structures. Heart-shaped embryos developed and germinated normally on Murashige and Tucker basal medium with 0.5% sucrose and 1 M gibberellic acid. Culture of embryognie callus directly onto cellulose membranes also resulted in the development of normal heart-shaped embryos, indicating that glycerol induction of globular-stage embryos is not necessary. Heart-shaped embryos were not observed when the osmotic potential of the medium was increased by the addition of 2.5-15% polyethylene glycol; neither were they observed when the matric potential of the medium was increased by increasing the gelling agent concentrations of agar and Gelrite from 0.8% to 3% and 0.15% to 0.9%, respectively.
41318711|A transformed root culture of Cichorium intybus L. cv. Lucknow Local grown in different configurations of bioreactors was examined. The roots grown in an acoustic mist bioreactor showed the best performance in terms of increased specific growth rate (0.072 d) and esculin content (18.5 g1 ), the latter of which was comparable to that of shake flask data. C. intybus hairy root cultures grown in an acoustic mist bioreactor produced nearly twice as much esculin as compared to roots grown in bubble column and nutrient sprinkle bioreactors. Studies relating to on-line estimation of conductivity and osmolarity to predict the growth of hairy root cultures are also discussed. The results demonstrate the efficacy and the advantages of an acoustic mist bioreactor for the cultivation of hairy root cultures, especially with reference to C. intybus hairy roots.
4293649|Totipotent callus of Cypripedium formosanum, an endangered slipper orchid species, was induced from seed-derived protocorm segments on a quarter-strength Murashige and Skoog medium containing
4293237|The proliferation and survival of avocado nodal cultures of juvenile origin were affected by the form and concentration of nitrogen. Optimum growth was achieved on modified Murashige and Skoog medium containing
20461615|Somatic embryos of carob (Ceratonia siliqua L.) were induced from cotyledonary segments excised from immature seeds when cultured on Murashige and Skoog media supplemented with several combinations of 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). The best frequencies of induction (33.8%) were obtained when 4.4 M BA and 0.5 M IBA were used. Shoots were also sporadically formed in the same media. When IBA was replaced by other auxins in the induction media, only -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) could induce somatic embryogenesis, although at lower rates than IBA. 2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid were completely ineffective. Besides culture media composition, the developmental stage of the explants at the time of culture showed a strong influence on somatic embryogenesis induction, with cotyledons from stage II pods providing the highest levels of induction. By contrast, the genotype of the explant did not determine a significant role in the induction process. Attempts to achieve somatic embryo germination were mostly unsuccessful, since only shoot development was observed; the highest frequencies of development occurred on media containing only gibberellic acid (3.0 M). For plant regeneration, the developed shoots were further rooted on IBA-supplemented media, and the plantlets obtained were transferred to soil, where c. 88% of them survived. Histological observations showed the presence of morphologically normal and abnormal somatic embryos, the latter displaying an abnormal pattern of vascular bundles. Ultrastructural analysis showed that the cells of the globular embryos had a dense cytoplasm, whereas those not involved in somatic embryo formation showed signs of senescence. Histological studies were also used to distinguish between somatic embryos and shoots originated in the same media.
4293637| Exposure of mature cotyledonary somatic embryos of Picea abies to low temperature (4C) resulted in the accumulation of raffinose family oligosaccharides (RFOs) - raffinose and stachyose. The RFO content represented approximately 20% of the total soluble saccharides with the RFO:sucrose ratio being almost 1:3 (molar basis) after 3 wk of cold exposure. This treatment, like desiccation, brings the endogenous saccharide spectrum nearer to that of mature zygotic embryos of the same species (zygotic embryos, RFO:sucrose ratio 1:1.5 on a molar basis). Based on indications that RFOs are at least partly responsible for the positive effects of desiccation, we propose cold treatment as an alternative to slow desiccation for conifer somatic embryogenesis protocols. 
40981347|The role of K in potato (Solarium tuberosum L.) tuberization, based on the effects of fertilizer and soil exchangeable K, appears to be mostly contradictory. Here, we provide evidence that K at high concentrations is detrimental to tuber development in vitro once induction has taken place. An experimental system using in vitro cultured single-node cuttings showed that K at > 30.0 mM significantly reduced tuber fresh mass concomitant with a corresponding decline in starch content. However, high K did not affect tuber induction in terms of number of tubers developed per cutting. High K -induced inhibitory effect on tuber development was attributed to a reduced rate of assimilate partitioning. 86 Rb(K) transport to stolons, and tubers that acted as strong sinks in vitro were proportional to exogenous K levels; however, 86 Rb accumulation and K deposition were markedly reduced in tubers as compared with that in stolons, especially at higher K levels. The results indicated a diminishing sink strength developed by tubers with increasing nutrition. Highly significant negative correlations between Rb accumulation/K deposition in both the sink organs and tuber fresh mass reinforced the inhibitory effect of high K on tuber development. The rate of tuber removal in vitro was similar to that of crop removal reported in vivo, suggesting highly conserved uptake and transport mechanisms during tuberization process. The results have been discussed in the context of possible effects of high. K on impairing sucrose uptake and metabolism.
4293002|Barley leaf blade protoplasts accumulate malonaldehyde, a product of lipid peroxidation, during culture. In addition, glutathione levels fall after protoplast isolation and the proportion of glutathione in the oxidized state rises. These data indicate oxidative stress after protoplast isolation and during culture. The cause of this phenomenon is revealed by data showing that the activities of enzymes associated with antioxidative processes including glutathione reductase and ascorbate peroxidase decrease after barley protoplast isolation. In contrast, protoplasts isolated from suspension cultured cells of bromegrass and soybean exhibit little evidence for oxidative stress and increased activities of glutathione reductase and ascorbate peroxidase. We suggest that an antioxidative response is associated with mitosis and colony formation from protoplasts, as exhibited by bromegrass and soybean. Conversely, failure of an antioxidative response is associated with low viability and absence of mitosis, as in barley. Increased viability of barley leaf protoplasts cultured on feeder layer cells is correlated with increased glutathione content and higher glutathione reductase activity.
20064967|Selectable marker genes play an important role in plant transformation. The level of selection pressure is generally established by generating a kill curve for the selectable marker. In most cases, the lowest concentration which kills all explants is used. This study examined two selectable marker genes, phosphinothricin acetyl transferase (PAT) and hygro-mycin phosphotransferase (HPT), in transformation of tobacco leaf disks. Experiments to determine the lethal level of the herbicide, glufosinate-ammonium (phosphinothricin) (PPT) using a leaf-disk regeneration assay established that no shoots regenerated at 2 to 4 mg PPT per l. Likewise with the antibiotic, hygromycin (HYG), no plants regenerated at 50 mg hygromycin per l. In contrast, after cocultivation of the leaf disks with Agrobacterium tumefaciens containing either the PAT or HPT gene in combination with a Bt gene for insect resistance, plants were successfully regenerated from leaf disks at 2 to 4 mg PPT per l and 50 mg hygromycin per l. However, most plants regenerated at 2 and 3 mg PPT per l were found to be nontransformed (95-100% escapes) by i) Southern-blot analysis, ii) herbicide application test, and iii) insect feeding bioassay. On the other hand, plants that regenerated on 50 mg hygromycin per l and 4 mg PPT per l were transgenic as determined by Southern analysis, leaf assay for PPT or HYG resistance, and death of tobacco budworms feeding on these leaves. This study showed a significant level of cross-protection and/or transient expression of the PAT selectable marker gene allowing escapes (95-100%) at selection levels of 2 and 3 mg PPT per l which completely kill controls. On the other hand, the HPT gene at 50 mg is efficient in selecting for T-DNA integration.
4293023|Tryptophan decarboxylase (TDC), the enzyme that catalyzes the decarboxylation of tryptophan to tryptamine, was studied in a Catharanthus roseus transformed root culture. Its activity was evaluated through the culture cycle (36 days), along with the variations in the tryptamine pool as well as the accumulation of alkaloids. Ajmalicine and catharanthine contents in the tissues increased coordinately with an increase in TDC-specific activity after 18 days of growth. No dramatic shifts were observed for the total alkaloid and tryptamine profiles.
4293847| Anthers and ovaries of six grapevine cultivars (three Vitis vinifera L., two V. x Labruscana L.H. Bailey, and one complex hybrid) were extracted from flower buds over 2 yr and cultured on three media reported to promote somatic embryogenesis in Vitis tissues. The highest percent embryogenesis from the hybrid 'Chancellor' and V. vinifera 'Chardonnay,' 'Merlot,' and 'Pinot Noir' occurred on medium C [Nitsch and Nitsch, 1969, basal medium with 3.0% (w/v) sucrose, 0.01% (w/v) inositol, 0.3% (w/v) Phytagel, 2.5 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 2.5 M -naphthoxyacetic acid, 5.0 |M N-(2-chloro-4-pyridyl)-N' -phenylurea, and 0.05% (w/v) glutamine]. Regardless of the media, the labrusca cultivars 'Concord' and 'Niagara' produced soft non-embryogenic callus that was sometimes mixed with well-developed somatic embryos. Nine vinifera genotypes were further tested for several different years on medium C. Embryogenic cultures suitable for transformation were obtained from all genotypes in more than 1 yr. The average percent embryogenesis from ovaries was 7-fold higher than from anthers. There was significant annual variation in percent embryogenesis, demonstrating the need for media comparisons to be replicated for more than one season. Suspension cultures suitable for use in genetic transformation were initiated from 'Chardonnay,' 'Merlot,' and 'Pinot Noir' pro-embryogenic masses. 'Chardonnay' suspension cultures plated and grown under conditions developed for recovery of plants after biolistic transformation yielded approximately 500 non-transformed embryos per plate after 4 mo. of culture, with 68.6% of the embryos converting to plants. This is the first reported protocol for embryogenesis from 'Concord,' 'Cabernet Franc,' and 'Pinot Noir' grapevines. 
4293710|Medicinal plants are valuable sources of medicinal and many other pharmaceutical products. The conventional propagation method is the principal means of propagation and takes a long time for multiplication because of a low rate of fruit set, and/or poor germination and also sometimes clonal uniformity is not maintained through seeds. The plants used in the phyto-pharmaceutical preparations are obtained mainly from the natural growing areas. With the increase in the demand for the crude drugs, the plants are being overexploited, threatening the survival of many rare species. Also, many medicinal plant species are disappearing at an alarming rate due to rapid agricultural and urban development, uncontrolled deforestation, and indiscriminate collection. Advanced biotechnological methods of culturing plant cells and tissues should provide new means for conserving and rapidly propagating valuable, rare, and endangered medicinal plants. The purpose of the present review is to focus the application of tissue culture technology for in vitro propagation via somatic embryogenesis and organogenesis and the cell suspension culture with suitable examples reported earlier. An overview of tissue culture studies on important Chinese medicinal plants and related species is presented.
20461571|Artemisinin is a sesquiterpene lactone isolated from the aerial parts of Artemisia annua L. plants. Besides being currently the best therapeutic against both drug-resistant and cerebral malaria-causing strains of Plasmodium falciparum, the drug has also been shown to be effective against other infectious diseases including schistosomiasis and hepatitis. More recently, it has also been shown to be effective against numerous types of tumors. Although chemical synthesis of artemisinin is possible, it is not economically feasible. The relatively low yield (0.01-0.8%) of artemisinin in A. annua is a further serious limitation to the commercialization of the drug. Therefore, the enhanced production of artemisinin either in cell/tissue culture or in the whole plant of A. annua is highly desirable. A better understanding of the biochemical pathway leading to the synthesis of artemisinin and its regulation by both exogenous and endogenous factors is essential for facilitating increased yield. Two genes of the artemisinin biosynthetic pathway have now been identified. This critical review covers recent developments related to the biosynthesis of this important compound and related terpenoids, their regulation, and the production of these compounds both in vitro and in whole plants.
4293541| Four transgenic soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill] lines were generated containing the maize 15 kDa zein protein gene using somatic embryogenic protocols. The zein gene was inserted behind the -phaseolin promoter for seed-specific expression. All four lines represent separate transformation events as they were generated in different experiments at different locations. Two of the transformation events produced multiple plants, and these produced identical Southern hybridization patterns (UKY/Z1, UKY/Z2 and UKY/Z3 from the first; and OSU/Z4, OSU/Z8 and OSU/Z10 from the second). Molecular characterization revealed that multiple copies of the zein gene were present in all of the transgenic lines. Immunoblot analysis confirmed the accumulation of the zein protein product in the seeds of the UKY/Z1, UKY/Z2, UKY/Z3, OSU/Z4, OSU/Z8 and OSU/Z10 transgenic lines. However, there was no accumulation of zein protein in the UGA/Z1 line and Northern analysis confirmed that the zein transgene was silenced in this line. It was not possible to analyze the zein expression in the seeds of the UKY/Z4 line, as it was sterile. Amino acid analysis of the UKY and OSU lines confirmed that there was a 12-20% increase in methionine, and 15-35% increase in cysteine content in these lines compared to the control. There were no consistent changes in the content of the other amino acids in the transgenic lines. These results suggest that while the increase in methionine content in these lines is modest, it is possible to increase the methionine content without adversely affecting the protein composition of soybean. 
4293865|An efficient and reproducible procedure for the large-scale propagation of Pseudoxytenanthera stocksii is described. High-frequency multiple shoot induction was achieved from nodal shoot segments collected from superior/elite genotypes on Murashige and Skoog (MS) liquid medium supplemented with 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA;
4293167|The type of gelling agent can influence to a large extent clonal propagation of Ranunculus asiaticus L. through axillary bud stimulation. In preliminary experiments we identified three agar brands (Oxoid = OX, Merck = MK, and Roth = RT) which affect the availability of water and minerals to tissues in different ways. In the present study we investigate the influence of these agars on the in vitro performance of Ranunculus. On OX and MK gels, growth was satisfactory, although the former had a more promotive effect on fresh and dry weight production and on multiplication rate. Growth and development of shoots were poor on RT; shoot clumps showed symptoms of hyperhydricity, with shoots having large dark-green malformed leaves and very elongated petioles. Epidermal strips of leaves from shoots grown on the different gels and collected at the end of the culture period revealed differences according to the agar brand on which the plantlets were cultured. Severe structural deformations of stomata could be detected on RT-grown shoots. The analyses of the sugar content of the gel at the end of the culture period demonstrated that the explants grown on RT gels are strictly dependent on the carbohydrates in the medium. On OX and MK gels the heterotrophic metabolism was lowered compared to RT-grown explants. The agar brand on which plantlets were grown also influenced water retention capacity and water content of the shoots. Experiments with tritiated water were undertaken to better understand the water fluxes inside the vessel and to investigate the difference in "pump function" exerted by shoots cultured on the three gels. Shoots grown on OX media showed the best "pump function," which would account for the better results obtained on this gel. On the basis of the relationship between gel properties and the growth of Ranunculus shoots, we conclude that the different physiological responses on the three gels are a reflection of different water and nutrient availability in the different media.
20461738|Endogenous levels of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), indole-3-acetylaspartic acid (IAAsp) and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) were measured during the first 8 d of in vitro rooting of rootstock from the chestnut 'M3' hybrid by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Rooting was induced either by dipping the basal ends of the shoots into a 4.92-mM IBA solution for 1 min or by sub-culturing the shoots on solid rooting medium supplemented with 14.8-M IBA for 5 d. For root development, the induced shoots were transferred to auxin-free solid medium. Auxins were measured in the apical and basal parts of the shoots by means of HPLC. Endogenous levels of IAA and IAAsp were found to be greater in IBA-treated shoots than in control shoots. In extracts of the basal parts of the shoots, the concentration of free IAA showed a significant peak 2 d after either root inductive method and a subsequent gradual decrease for the remainder of the time course. The concentration of IAAsp peaked at day 6 in extracts of the basal parts of shoots induced with 14.8-M IBA for 5 d, whereas shoots induced by dipping showed an initial increase until day 2 and then remained stable. In extracts from basal shoot portions induced by dipping, IBA concentration showed a transient peak at day 1 and a plateau between day 2 and 4, in contrast to the profile of shoots induced on auxin-containing medium, which showed a significant reduction between 4 and 6 d after transferred to auxin-free medium. All quantified auxins remained at a relatively low level, virtually constant, in extracts from apical shoot portions, as well as in extracts from control non-rooting shoots. In conclusion, the natural auxin IAA is the signal responsible for root induction, although it is driven by exogenous IBA independently of the adding conditions.
4292940|An experimental rooting system was developed to study in vitro adventitious root formation in hazelnut cotyledons. Experiments involved a) assay of several culture media, b) use of different developmental status of the seeds (germinated and ungerminated), c) cotyledons subjected to various light regimes, and d) different size of cotyledons slices. It was observed that higher rooting was induced in cotyledonary portions of 5- or 7-mm thickness (
4293579|Production of high-quality, vigorous tissue-culture-derived propagules requires efficient ways for the enhancement of their post-transplanting ability for water management, photosynthesis, and resistance to diseases. Certain molecules, environmental factors, microorganisms, or their parts, can pre-sensitize cellular metabolism of plants, so upon exposure to stress these pre-sensitized, or 'primed', plants are able to respond quicker, and to a higher degree than nonprimed, and thus cope better with the challenge. In this review we propose the adoption of the term 'priming' for tissue culture propagation and outline the approaches to in vitro propagule priming, based on the changes to the growth environment (chemical, physical, and biological) prior to and/or upon transplanting. Major emphasis has been placed on in vitro and ex vitro biopriming (priming with beneficial microorganisms).
20461660|This study reports spore germination, early gametophyte development and change in the reproductive phase of Drynaria fortunei, a medicinal fern, in response to changes in pH and light spectra. Germination of D. fortunei spores occurred on a wide range of pH from 3.7 to 9.7. The highest germination (63.3%) occurred on  strength Murashige and Skoog basal medium supplemented with 2% sucrose at pH 7.7 under white light condition. Among the different light spectra tested, red, far-red, blue, and white light resulted in 71.3, 42.3, 52.7, and 71.0% spore germination, respectively. There were no morphological differences among gametophytes grown under white and blue light. Elongated or filamentous but multiseriate gametophytes developed under red light, whereas under far-red light gametophytes grew as uniseriate filaments consisting of mostly elongated cells. Different light spectra influenced development of antheridia and archegonia in the gametophytes. Gametophytes gave rise to new gametophytes and developed antheridia and archegonia after they were transferred to culture flasks. After these gametophytes were transferred to plastic tray cells with potting mix of tree fern trunk fiber mix (TFTF mix) and peatmoss the highest number of sporophytes was found. Sporophytes grown in pots developed rhizomes.
4292919|Using microprojectile bombardment of maize suspension cultures and bialaphos selection, transformed embryogenic calli have been recovered in numerous independent experiments. Fertile transgenic plants have been regenerated from several transformed callus lines. Stable inheritance and expression of bar and functional activity of the enzyme phosphinothricin acetyl transferase were observed in three subsequent generations of transformed plants. Evidence to date indicates that the transformation process and the presence of the foreign gene per se do not detrimentally influence either plant vigor or fertility. This represents a practical method for introducing foreign genes into maize, which may be applicable to other monocot species.
4293564| Explants derived from adventitious buds, rhizomes, stems, and leaves of a medicinal plant, Polygonatum cyrtonema, were studied for plantlet regeneration, and only adventitious bud explants were able to be regenerated into plantlets. Regeneration was also accompanied by the formation of rhizome-like tissue, the medicinal portion of the plant. The optimum hormone combination for plantlet regeneration was 4.44 M benzyladenine plus 2.26 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, at which new adventitious buds were obtained from 96.6% of the adventitious bud explants, with an average of 5.2 buds per explant. The best medium for root induction was half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium with 4.57 M -naphthaleneacetic acid, as 92% of regenerated buds rooted. Regenerated plantlets were successfully transferred to a greenhouse with 86% survival. Histological observation indicated that new adventitious buds originated from the superficial meristematic cell cluster of the granular callus induced from adventitious bud explants via organogenesis. 
4293838|This study investigated the role of antioxidants and amino acids on somatic embryogenesis using the vegetative shoot apices of three genotypes of mature Pinus patula trees. Apart from dithiothreitol at 0.1%, pretreatment of explants or incorporation of antioxidants in the basal nutrient medium had a negative effect on the initiation of embryogenic cultures, somatic embryo production, and plantlet recovery. Inclusion of an amino acid solution mixture, at a concentration of 10.0 mM, in the maturation medium tended to increase somatic embryo production.
4293366|The present review summarizes the factors involved in controlling the process of oak somatic embryogenesis as a method for vegetative plant propagation and includes also data on artificial seed production, cryopreservation and transformation. One major limitation, the inability to initiate embryogenic cultures from mature trees, has been recently overcome. Leaves from selected cork oak trees with an age of 50 yr and more have been used to initiate somatic embryogenesis (SE) with a frequency of up to 20%. These findings offer encouraging prospects for cloning proven superior plant material and to integrate this propagation system into tree improvement programs. Once the process of SE has been initiated, the multiplication cycle proceeds via secondary embryogenesis, which can be maintained indefinitely. Problems are reported by the formation of anomalous embryos. The mutability of somatic embryogenic cell lines of various oak species has been monitored by flow cytometry and molecular markers. No somaclonal variation was detected applying random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) or amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) markers, whereas DNA-content measurements via flow cytometry revealed tetraploidy in some cell lines after several years of continuous subculture. Maturation and low germination frequencies are the main bottlenecks for a broader use of this technique. Recently attention has been on embryo quality and parameters for conversion capacity such as high endogenous cytokinin level and low abscisic acid (ABA) level. Although oak is probably the species that is the most well-developed system for a broadleaved forest tree, data on growth performances of somatic embryo-derived plants are rare.
20541038|Energy plays a vital role in the economic growth of any country. Current energy supplies in the world are unsustainable from environmental, economic, and societal standpoints. All over the world, governments have initiated the use of alternative sources of energy for ensuring energy security, generating employment, and mitigating CO emissions. Biofuels have emerged as an ideal choice to meet these requirements. Huge investments in research and subsidies for production are the rule in most of the developed countries. India started its biofuel initiative in 2003. This initiative differs from other nations' in its choice of raw material for biofuel production--molasses for bioethanol and nonedible oil for biodiesel. Cyclicality of sugar, molasses, and ethanol production resulted in a fuel ethanol program which suffered from inconsistent production and supply. The restrictive policies, availability of molasses, and cost hampered the fuel ethanol program. Inconsistent policies, availability of land, choice of nonnative crops, yield, and market price have been major impediments for biodiesel implementation. However, a coherent, consistent, and committed policy with long-term vision can sustain India's biofuel effort. This will provide energy security, economic growth, and prosperity and ensure a higher quality of life for India.
20171597|In vitro cultures are being considered as an alternative to agricultural processes for producing valuable secondary metabolites. Most efforts that use differentiated cultures instead of cell suspension cultures have focused on transformed (hairy) roots. Bioreactors used to culture hairy roots can be roughly divided into three types: liquid-phase, gas-phase, or hybrid reactors that are a combination of both. The growth and productivity of hairy root cultures are reviewed with an emphasis on successful bioreactors and important culture considerations. The latter include strain selection, production of product in relation to growth phase, media composition, the gas regime, use of elicitors, the role of light, and apparent product loss. Together with genetic engineering and process optimization, proper reactor design plays a key role in the development of successful large-scale production of secondary metabolites from plant cultures.
4293053|Efficient methods of Agrobacterium-mediated transformation are described for two Pacific Northwest cultivars of strawberry (Fragaria x ananassa), Tristar and Totem. We report stable incorporation of a gene for control of ethylene biosynthesis, into strawberry (cultivar Totem) for the first time. Cultivar Tristar was transformed with disarmed strains of Agrobacterium tumefaciens (A. tumefaciens), LBA4404 or EHA101, containing a binary vector with marker genes uidA and nptII. Cultivar Totem was transformed with A. tumefaciens strains EHA101 or EHA105 harboring binary vectors with selectable marker genes nptII or hpt and with a gene for S-adenosylmethionine hydrolase (SAMase) for control of ethylene biosynthesis. The frequency of transgenic shoots ranged from 12.5% to 58.8% of the original treated expiants when using plasmids containing the gene encoding SAMase. Primary shoot regenerants obtained on selection medium were subjected to several iterations of tissue isolation and reculture on higher stringency selection medium for recovering uniformly transformed plantlets. Transgenic plants were confirmed by their ability to undergo rooting on medium with selection at 60 mg/liter kanamycin or 10 mg/liter hygromycin. About 95-100% of the transformation events from different experiments were capable of profuse rooting in the presence of selection. Insertion of the SAMase gene and its integration into the strawberry genome were confirmed by Southern hybridization. About 500 plants from 250 independent transgenic events have been successfully transferred to soil for further evaluation.
41496446|To evaluate the role of exogenous application of a phytochelating agent glutathione in increasing resistance against different heavy metals stress, nodal expiants excised from 28-day-old in vitro seedlings of Spilanthes calva L. were cultured on Murashige and Skoog's medium supplemented with 10 M benzyl adenine and five different concentrations (1, 5, 50, 100, or 200 mg/1) of four heavy metals: AsO, CuSO, ZnSO, or Pb(NO). Data were recorded for percent survival, shoot number, and shoot length after 28 d of heavy metal treatment. All four heavy metals severely inhibited growth and morphogenesis. Pb proved most inhibitory whereas Zn was least effective. Pb was further selected to study the reversal effect of glutathione on morphogenesis. The addition of different concentrations (1, 5, 10, or 25 mg/1) of glutathione to media containing the Pb resulted in a significant improvement in almost all growth parameters. Inclusion of glutathione at 10 mg/1 was optimum for maximum reversal of the negative effects of heavy metals on morphogenesis.
20461631|The contamination of soils with excess salts is one of the greatest challenges to plant survival, but some unique species have evolved to thrive in highly saline environments. One such species, Alhagi graecorum Boiss., has been previously shown to accumulate high levels of sodium while growing in salt marshes. The aim of this research was to investigate the effects of saline conditions on the growth and the regeneration capacity of this species. Plantlets and explants of A. graecorum were cultured on a medium supplemented with various concentrations of NaCl, where A. graecorum tissues accumulated up to 8% Na. The capacity for regeneration was enhanced by the excess sodium, indicating a requirement of salt for optimal growth and development in this species. Further study of this species may provide new concepts and understanding of the metabolism of sodium in higher plants.
25623011|Ponkan mandarin (Citrus reticulata Blanco) is one of the most important commercial cultivars of mandarin orange in China. This study reports an improved and efficient protocol for in vitro plant regeneration of Ponkan mandarin. Epicotyl segments, which were cut longitudinally into two halves, were used as explants. The shoot regeneration frequency was significantly increased by longitudinal cutting. A 100% shoot regeneration frequency and 13.2 shoots per explant were obtained when cultures were maintained in darkness for 20 d before being transferred to light conditions, with bud induction by indirect organogenesis. A 72.5% shoot regeneration frequency and 7.8 shoots per explant were obtained when explants were incubated under a 16-h light photoperiod continuously with buds differentiating directly from the cutting wound surface. The optimal medium for shoot formation was Murashige and Tucker basal medium supplemented with 2 mgL BA and 30 gL sucrose both under light conditions. The addition of the auxin NAA reduced the frequency of regeneration. A "filter-paper bridge" technique was used for rooting in this study. The basal portion of regenerated shoots was dipped into 1,000 mgL IBA solution for 15 min before placement on a filter-paper bridge that was maintained in 1/2 MS liquid medium supplemented with 10 gL sucrose. Eighty percent of the shoots rooted, and an average of 2.0 roots per shoot were achieved. Survival rate through acclimatization was 100%.
4292921|The growth and development of white spruce somatic embryos was followed from the filamentous immature to the mature cotyledonary embryo stage. Histochemical examination of the various stages of embryo development showed that lipids, proteins, and polysaccharides were produced to varying degrees during the process. During early stages (1 to 2 wk on ABA), mostly polysaccharide was produced, whereas during later stages, polysaccharides, lipids, and protein accumulated. Electron microscopy indicated that lipid deposition in somatic embryos started during the first week after transfer to ABA-containing medium. Deposition of the storage products began at the basal end of the embryonal mass and within the proximal zone of the suspensors. Accumulation continued to the peripheral regions and then inward toward the cortex of the developing embryo. In all cases, polysaccharide accumulated first, followed by lipid and lastly, protein. Quantitatively, cotyledonary stage somatic embryos had less lipid and protein and more starch when compared to zygotic embryos at the same developmental stage. Total protein profiles elucidated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis indicated that the majority of proteins were similar in zygotic and somatic embryos. Prominent protein bands were found at 30, 20, 19.5, 15, 14.4, 12, and 10 Kd. However, protein bands at 40, 15, and 12 Kd in total protein from somatic embryos were either absent or highly underexpressed.
4293808|Various aspects of somatic embryogenesis in carrot suspension cultures were reviewed on the basis of results obtained in our laboratory. We have established high-frequency and synchronous somatic embryogenesis systems needed for biochemical and molecular analysis. Using these systems, four phases of somatic embryogenesis were identified. The importance of expression of polarities in these phases, particularly from single cells to embryogenic cell clusters, in determining somatic embryogenesis, is emphasized. At the molecular level, genes expressed during somatic embryogenesis were described, and they were classified into three categories: (1) genes involved in cell division, (2) genes involved in organ formation, and (3) genes specific for the process of somatic embryogenesis. From the results obtained, it is concluded that discrete developmental phases in carrot somatic embryogenesis are characterized by distinct biochemical and molecular events, but much remains to be understood.
4293807|Root epidermis development in Arabidopsis provides a simple and powerful model for studying cell fate specification. Cellular, molecular, and genetic approaches have been used to define many genes, and their corresponding proteins, that are essential for the position-dependent specification of the two root epidermal cell types. These studies have led to a working model in which a network of transcriptional regulators that is influenced by positional cues establishes differences in gene expression in neighboring cells through a set of positive and negative feedback loops. The continued analysis of this experimental system is likely to provide new insights into mechanisms of transcriptional regulation and cell-cell interactions during development.
20461591|Cotyledonary node and leaf nodal explants excised from 14-d-old in vitro-grown seedlings of Albizia odoratissima were cultured on a Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with different concentrations of 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP), N-(2-isopentenyl) adenine (2-iP) and kinetin, used either solely or in combinations. The highest frequency for shoot regeneration (82.5%), the maximum number of shoots per explant (6.9), and the maximum shoot length (2.55 cm) were obtained from cotyledonary node explants cultured on a MS medium containing 10 M BAP and 10 M 2-iP with 30 g l sucrose. Successful rooting was achieved by placing the microshoots on MS medium with 25 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) for 24 h first, then transferring to the same medium without IBA. Of the various substrates tested, vermiculite was best for plant acclimatization, in which 75% of plants survived.
20064979|Over the last 25 yr, success in characterizing the individual protein components of animal cytoskeletons was possible, in part, due to technical advances in the isolation and purification of anucleate cytoskeletons from animal cells. As a step towards characterizing protein components of the plant cytoskeleton, we have isolated cytoskeletons from cytoplasts (anucleate protoplasts) prepared from cotton fiber cells grown in ovule culture. Cytoplasts isolated into a hypertonic,
20461542|A rapid shoot multiplication protocol was established for an important medicinal plant, Vitex negundo L., belonging to the family Verbenaceae, using Murashige and Skoog medium, achieved by shoot multiplication as well as callus regeneration. Shoot multiplication was induced by different concentrations of 1-phenyl-3-(1,2,3-thiadiazol-5-yl)-urea (TDZ), Benzyladenine and 6-furfuryl amino purine separately along with 10% (v/v) coconut water. Green organogenetic callus was obtained by the combined effect of 0.5-2.15 M TDZ and 1.7 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) along with 1% polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP), and produced the maximum number of shoots when subcultured onto medium containing 2.7 M TDZ alone. Elongation of in vitro shoots was observed in MS medium containing 2.4 M gibberellic acid and rooting was induced by the combined effect of 1.71 M IAA and 1.62 M -naphthalene acetic acid.
20461613|A regeneration system from protoplast to plantlet for a medicinal plant species, Phellodendron amurense Rupr., has been developed. Leaves of micropropagated shoots or plantlets were selected as plant materials for protoplast isolation. The yield and viability of leaf protoplasts were greatly influenced by the enzyme combination, treatment time and osmoticum. The highest viability (86%) with a yield of 7.1  10 protoplasts per gram fresh weight was obtained with a 6-h digestion in 1% Cellulase Onozuka R-10 plus 1% Driselase-20. Sustained cell division and colony formation from the protoplasts were best supported at a plating density of 4  10-6  10 protoplasts per milliliter using a 0.2% gellan gum-solidified or liquid MS (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) medium containing 0.6 M mannitol, 2.0 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) with 4.0 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). The protoplast-derived colonies formed green compact calluses when transferred to a solidified MS medium containing 2.0 M BA with 4.0 M NAA or IBA. Shoot regeneration from protoplast-derived calluses was induced on MS medium supplemented with 2.0 M BA and 1.0 M NAA or 2.5 M IBA. Shoot multiplication and elongation occurred on MS medium containing 1.0 M BA. In vitro-grown shoots were rooted on MS medium with either 0.5-4.0 M IBA or NAA. Regenerants were transferred to the Kanuma soil and successfully established under greenhouse conditions.
4293721|In vitro propagation of Andrographis paniculata (Burm. f.) Wallich ex Nees through somatic embryogenesis, and influence of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) on induction, maturation, and conversion of somatic embryos were investigated. The concentration of 2,4-D in callus induction medium determined the induction, efficacy of somatic embryogenesis, embryo maturation, and conversion. Friable callus initiated from leaf and internode explants grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2.26, 4.52, 6.78, and
20461535|Anther-derived rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica variety Yerua P.A.) plants were obtained after cryopreservation by an encapsulation/dehydration technique. Immature anthers, excised from spikelets pretreated at 8C for 8d, were encapsulated in calcium alginate beads. The beads were cultured on N6 medium with 11.5 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 2.3 M 6-furfurylaminopurine (KIN). Fifteen percent of the encapsulated anthers formed calluses when pretreated with sucrose for 3 d in liquid medium, desiccated on silica gel, slowly cooled to -30, immersed in liquid nitrogen (LN), thawed, and recultured. The cryopreserved encapsulated anthers produced 1.67 shoots/callus, in contrast to the control (non-cooled encapsulated anthers), which produced 6 shoots/callus. Eighty percent of the plantlets developed into normal plants after being transferred to greenhouse conditions. Histological observations showed that the origin of the plants was not modified by the cryopreservation process.
4293832|Carbohydrate type and concentration and their interactive effects on in vitro shoot proliferation of three lingonberry (Vaccinium vitis-idaea ssp. vitis-idaea L.) cultivars ('Regal', 'Splendor', and 'Erntedank') and two V. vitis-idaea ssp. minus (Lodd) clones ('NL1' and 'NL2') were studied. Nodal explants were grown in vitro on medium with 2  M zeatin and either glucose, sorbitol, or sucrose at a concentration of 0, 10, 20, or
4293024|Ten transformed and two non-transformed root lines of Catharanthus roseus were established. A systematic study of the growth kinetics and alkaloid content was performed over a culture cycle and showed significant differences between transformed and non-transformed cultures. Mean doubling times for transformed and normal root lines were 2.8 and 19.5 days, respectively. Alkaloid content in hairy roots was from two- to threefold higher than in the non-transformed tissues. The established transformed root lines produced a wide variety of indole alkaloids as can be observed from their complex thin layer chromatography patterns. A large quantity of serpentine was determined in two of the transformed root cultures. Alkaloid content, both quantitatively and qualitatively, has been stable in the hairy root cultures for more than 2 yr of subculturing.
4293584|An efficient protocol has been developed for the regeneration of plantlets from leaf explants of witloof chicory (Cichorium intybus L.). Regeneration via callus was obtained on modified Murashige and Skoog semisolid medium (MS) containing
4293747| Seedlings from 11 seed sources (lines) of American ginseng from different geographic regions were evaluated on Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) containing 10 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 9 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) for callus development and somatic embryo formation. Leaf and stem explants callused at a frequency of 18.2-100%, while somatic embryos were produced from these calluses at a frequency of 25-87.5% after 5 mo. Suspension cultures of nine lines were established by transferring embryogenic callus to MS liquid medium with NAA and 2,4-D at 2.5 and 2.25 M, respectively, and maintained by subcultures every 8wk. Globular somatic embryos from these cultures were germinated on half-strength MS containing 1% activated charcoal, and roots > 5 mm in length developed within 3 wk. A 7-d exposure to 3 M gibberellic acid and 5 M 6-benzylaminopurine significantly enhanced shoot development and promoted further root development. The chromosome number, profiles of the common triterpenoid saponins (ginsenosides), and random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) banding patterns in plantlets derived from suspension culture were compared to those of zygotic seedlings. The chromosome number in root tip cells and suspension cultured cells was 48. Patterns of the six major ginsenosides, determined by thin-layer chromatography, in leaves of tissue culture-derived plantlets were identical to those in seedlings. RAPD patterns among plantlets originating from the same tissue-cultured line were mostly identical; however, altered patterns were observed in some lines that had been maintained in suspension culture for almost 4yr. The results from this study indicate that propagation of desired ginseng genotypes in suspension culture can be achieved, and that biochemical and molecular markers can be used for authentication of resulting plantlets. 
20461619|Cell suspension cultures of Orthosiphon stamineus were established from friable calluses produced from leaf pieces of in vitro plantlets that were derived from nodal segments of the mother plants collected from three different geographical locations. Eight lines were eventually selected after seven subculture cycles based on the growth characteristic (plant height) of the plantlets from the three locations: two fast-growing lines (&gt;5.1 cm tall), three intermediate-growing lines (3.1-5.0 cm tall), and three slow-growing lines (&lt;3.0 cm tall). All eight lines grew well in liquid Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 4.5 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2, 4-D) and 5.4 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). All cell lines exhibited the same growth pattern but produced different maximum cell biomass when cultured in this medium. The time of harvesting the plant cells from the culture medium and the geographical source of the original plant material were both found to affect the production of rosmarinic acid (RA) in cell cultures. Two cell lines were successfully selected and identified to produce high amounts of RA. These cell lines were a fast-growing cell line from Air Itam, Penang and an intermediate-growing cell line from Relau Agriculture Research Centre, Penang which could produce 5% [(w/w) dry weight] and 4.5% [(w/w) dry weight] of RA, respectively.
23016594|Hardwood tree species in forest, plantation, and urban environments (temperate regions of the world) are important biological resources that play a significant role in the economy and the ecology of terrestrial ecosystems, and they have aesthetic and spiritual value. Because of these many values of hardwood tree species, preserving forest tree biodiversity through the use of biotechnological approaches should be an integral component in any forestry program in addition to large-scale ecologically sustainable forest management and preservation of the urban forest environment. Biotechnological tools are available for conserving tree species as well as genetic characterization that will be needed for deployment of germplasm through restoration activities. This review concentrates on the biotechnological tools available for conserving, characterizing, evaluating, and enhancing hardwood forest tree biodiversity. We focus mainly on species grown for lumber and wood products, not species grown mainly for fiber (pulp and paper production). We also present a brief summary of the importance of non-wood forest products from temperate hardwood tree species (a research area that needs further development using biotechnological techniques) and a few case studies for preserving forest tree biodiversity.
4293162|Transgenic plants of Osteospermum ecklonis were produced by cocultivation of leaf fragments with Agrobacterium tumefaciens harboring rol genes from A. rhizogenes. The phenotypic alterations caused by the different transgenes were evaluated in field trials. The genetic manipulation produced transgenic plants characterized by the following features: 1) increased number of flowers (e.g., 35SrolC and rolABC); 2) early flowering (e.g., 35SrolC); 3) change of plant growth habit: erect (rolAB, rolABC and 35SrolC) with an increased number of branches (e.g., rolABC). The color of leaves was pale green in 35SrolC and dark green in rolAB transgenic plants. In conclusion this work reports: 1) genetic engineering of the ornamental species O. ecklonis, 2) modification of the main ornamental traits of this species by rol genes, and 3) segregation of the transgenes in the progeny.
20461643|Bigtooth maple (Acer grandidentatum) is a promising ornamental tree that is not widely used in managed landscapes. Tissue culture has not been used successfully to propagate this taxon. We cultured single- and double-node explants from greenhouse-grown, 2-y old seedlings of bigtooth maples, which are indigenous to New Mexico, Texas, and Utah, on Murashige-Skoog (MS), Linsmaier-Skoog (LS), Driver-Kuniyuki Walnut (DKW), and Woody Plant (WPM) tissue culture media. Media affected shoot proliferation (P=0.0242) but the zone of explant origin (P=0.7594) did not. After four 30-d subcultures, explants on DKW media and WPM media produced 3.6 and 3.5 shoots per explant, respectively. Sprouting rates were highest on DKW, making DKW the best overall media for shoot proliferation. Double-node microshoots were rooted in vitro on DKW containing indole acetic acid (IAA). Microshoots represented six genotypes from three locations within Texas and New Mexico. Rooting percentage increased up to 15% as IAA concentration increased (P=0.0040). There was 100% survival of rooted microshoots in vented Phytatrays containing one perlite: one peat moss (v/v). We conclude that DKW can be used to proliferate microshoots, and IAA induces rooting in microshoots of bigtooth maple.
20461708|Valeriana glechomifolia, a southern Brazilian endemic species commonly known as Valerian, accumulates the bioactive terpene derivatives valepotriates in all of its organs. In vitro growth of V. glechomifolia on solid Murashige and Skoog (MS) without phytohormones at full, 75% (MS 75), or on a modified formulation (M ) was compared in stock cultures kept for up to 9 mo. without subculture. Changes in biomass accumulation, development of roots and shoots, and the production of the valepotriates acevaltrate, didrovaltrate, and valtrate were monthly evaluated. The highest biomass accumulation and root development was observed in plants grown on M , whereas better leaf development was detected in M-- and MS-medium-grown plants after 8 and 9 mo. of culture, respectively. Maximal didrovaltrate and valtrate yields were observed in M--grown plants harvested after 5 and 6 mo. of culture, respectively, whereas acevaltrate concentration was highest on M-- and MS-75-grown plants after 7 mo. of culture. Plants grown for 6 mo. without subculture in M  were successfully propagated, showing stable growth and valepotriate yields three- to sixfold higher that those observed in field-grown plants. The results showed a positive effect of combined moderate reduction in salt concentration and increases in selected micronutrients and myo-inositol amounts on both growth and valepotriate yields of extended period stock cultures of V. glechomifolia.
4293414|A somatic embryogenesis protocol was developed for Eschscholzia californica Cham. (California poppy) using embryogenic cell suspensions and optimized media conditions. Rapidly-growing, finely-dispersed embryogenic cell suspension cultures were established from embryogenic callus and maintained in B5 liquid media supplemented with
20065034|Isolated zygotic embryos of Pinus radiata D. Don germinated and their cotyledons, hypocotyl and root grew and developed further on the optimized culture medium, named LPSH2 based on the accompanying paper. The resulting plantlets appeared normal, but were one-third the size of the natural seedlings grown on water-agar medium only. When the isolated embryos were cultured on water-agar medium, they grew little and more importantly root development did not occur. Studies on biochemical changes during germination and early seedling growth showed that the patterns of changes in soluble sugar and starch content were generally different between isolated embryos and seedlings. Early on during culture the cotyledons and hypocotyls of natural seedlings had higher levels of soluble sugars and starch than the counterparts of the isolated embryos grown on the LPSH2-medium. Conversely, the root of the isolated embryos contained more soluble sugars and starch than that of the seedlings throughout the 3 wk of culture. However, little difference was found between the isolated embryos and seedlings as far as total protein concentrations and their sodium dodecyl sulfate--polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) protein profiles were concerned.
20064897|Adventitious shoot regeneration was achieved from almond leaves, cv. Boa Casta, excised from in vitro cultures of juvenile and adult material. Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium (MS) was found to be more efficient for adventitious shoot induction than a modified medium of Quoirin et al. (1977) when using identical growth regulator supplements. Thidiazuron (TDZ) at 4.54, 5.90, 6.81, and 9.08 M was used in all induction media, together with indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), or a combination of IAA and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). When N-benzyladenine (BA) was used instead of TDZ, no adventitious shoots were induced. Leaf explants of juvenile origin yielded the highest regeneration rates (40.0 and 38.2%) and required higher concentrations of TDZ for shoot induction than leaves of adult origin. An increase from 15.0 to 35.3% in the regeneration ability of adult leaf explants, tested on one of the induction media [modified medium of Quoirin et al. (1977) supplemented with 5.90 M TDZ and 2.85 M IAA], was achieved when donor shoots were subcultured twice on a medium with a low BA concentration of 1.33 M.
23016603|Artemisinin is a highly effective sesquiterpene lactone therapeutic produced in the plant, Artemisia annua. Despite its efficacy against malaria and many other infectious diseases and neoplasms, the drug is in short supply mainly because the plant produces low levels of the compound. This review updates the current understanding of artemisinin biosynthesis with a special focus on the emerging knowledge of how biosynthesis of the compound is regulated in planta.
4293810|The generation of transgenic Cucumis sativus cv. Greenlong plants resistant to phosphinothricin (PPT) was obtained using Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated gene transfer. The protocol relied on the regeneration of shoots from cotyledon explants. Transformed shoots were obtained on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with
41432447|The comparative effects of salinity and drought on activity of antioxidant enzymes such as Superoxide dismutase (SOD), peroxidase (POX), catalase (CAT), and polyphenol oxidase (PPO) and contents of protein, proline, hydrogen peroxide, malondialdehyde (MDA), and carotenoids were studied in calluses of Salicornia prsica and Salicornia europaea. Calluses were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium (MS medium) containing iso-osmotic concentrations of NaCl (100, 300, and 600 mM) and mannitol (200, 500, and 1000 mM). Proline content increased in calluses of both species under NaCl-and mannitol-inducd stresses. Under both stresses, S. persica accumulated higher amounts of protein as compared to S. europaea. Under both stresses, protein content in S. prsica decreased in comparison to control. Antioxidant enzyme activities showed different trends in the two Salicornia species under salt and drought stresses but were higher in S. europaea than in S. prsica. Changes of hydrogen peroxide and MDA contents of calluses subjected to salt stress followed a pattern different from that observed under drought stress. MDA content showed similar changes to hydrogen peroxide content. Carotenoid content decreased in both species under both stresses. Overall, at the cellular level, S. europaea calluses were more tolerant to both NaCl-and mannitol-induced stresses than calluses of S. persica.
42568706|We have optimized a procedure for genetic transformation of a major leafy vegetable crop, Amaranthus tricolor L., using epicotyl expiant co-cultivation with Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Two disarmed A. tumefaciens strains EHA 105 and LBA 4404, both carrying the binary plasmid p35SGUSINT harboring the neomycin phosphotransferase II gene (nptII) and the -glucuronidase gene (gus) were evaluated as vector systems. The former displayed a higher transforming efficiency. Several key factors influencing the transformation events were optimized. The highest percentage of transformed shoots (24.24%) was achieved using hand-pricked epicotyl explants, a 10-min infection period, with 100 m acetosyringone-pretreated Agrobacterium culture corresponding to OD0.6 and diluted to 10 cells ml, followed by 4 d co-cultivation in the regeneration medium. Putative transformed explants capable of forming shoots were selected on medium supplemented with 75gml kanamycin, and transient as well as stable glucuronidase expression was determined by histochemical analysis. Form a total of 48 selected shoot lines derived from independent transformation events with epicotyl explants co-cultivated with EHA 105, 32 showed positive PCR amplification for both the nptII and gus genes. Germ line transformation and transgene stability were evident in progeny of primary transformed plants (T). Among T seedlings of 12 selected transgenic plant lines, kanamycinresistant and kanamycin-sensitive seedlings segregated in a ratio typical of the Mendelian monohybrid pattern (3:1) as verified by the chi-square (X) test. Southern hybridization of genomic DNA from kanamycin-resistant T transgenic segregants to an nptII probe substantiated stable integration of the transgene. Neomycin phosphotransferase (NPTII) activity was detected in leaf protein extracts of selected T transgenic plants, thereby confirming stable expression of the nptII gene.
20064991|Cultures of Minthostachys mollis were established from nodal explants obtained under aseptic conditions. Explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) half-strength medium containing 6-benzyladenine (BA), and/or naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Optimum numbers of healthy shoots were induced on media containing 0.05 M NAA plus 2.2 M BA; higher concentrations caused more hyperhydricity and less extension. Rooting was achieved on half-strength MS medium with 0.05 M NAA. Plantlets were acclimatized and successfully transferred to soil. Essential oil composition of the regenerated plants were determined by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry and little differences were found in the essential oil composition with the plant grown in the wild.
4293127|Microbial contaminants were detected in surface-sterilized strawberry runner expiants partially submerged in half-strength liquid Murashige and Skoog medium. From June to August, 1994, 45 of 70 strawberry genotypes were found to be contaminated, whereas from June to August, 1995, 53 of 72 contained contaminants. There were more bacterial than fungal contaminants. Bacterial contaminants from 22 strawberry genotypes were isolated, purified, and identified to genus by standard biochemical tests such as Gram's stain, motility, oxidase, and gelatinase, and carbon source utilization (Biolog Microplates, Biolog, Inc., Hayward, CA). Among the 30 isolates identified with the Biolog system, the majority were fluorescent pseudomonads including Pseudomonas fluorescens types A, F, and G. P. corrugata, P. tolaasii, P. paucimobilis, Xanthomonas campestris, Xanthomonas spp., and Enterobacter cloacae were also identified. Five Gram-negative and two Gram-positive contaminants could not be identified by the Biolog test. Biochemical tests were used to characterize the bacteria and to confirm Biolog test results. Bacteria identified in this study were soil, water, and plant related, indicating that efforts to reduce expiant contaminant levels should be centered on the care of stock plants or the sterility of the watering system.
40663782|Cedrela odorata L. is a valuable tropical tree widely appreciated for its wood. This species confronts serious problems due to both overexploitation of its natural populations and its susceptibility to the Meliaceae borer Hypsipyla grandella, which destroys the apical meristems and produces structural deformations. The rapid introduction of new varieties through clonal forestry has been demonstrated to be the most effective way to improve the production of perennial plantation species. In this work, we report both a protocol for the rejuvenation of elite mature trees of C. odorata and the optimization of an in vitro culture system to scale up micropropagation. Several media formulations and the use of temporary immersion culture in bioreactors were evaluated. The addition of 20% coconut water to TY17 medium increased the number of adventitious shoots from hypocotyl segments to an average number of 4.68 shoots per expiant. To replace coconut water and to define the culture medium, several cytokinins were tested at various concentrations; however, none of them produced the effect of coconut water. Rejuvenation of elite mature individuals was investigated by ex vitro grafting of mature tree twigs onto 3-mo-old juvenile trees. Although the grafting had a positive effect on the micropropagation of mature material, the multiplication rate of 1.5 new shoots per expiant did not compare to the organogenic capacity of younger materials. Shoot and root elongation as well as acclimatization to ex vitro conditions were carried out in a temporary immersion culture of juvenile material using BioMINT bioreactors. A 3.5-fold increase in shoot elongation and a 4-fold increase in root elongation were achieved compared to material cultured on semisolid media. Furthermore, this culture system allowed for 98% effectiveness in the soil adaptation of the in vitro grown plants. The scaled-up multiplication capacity over a period of 6 mo calculated for the system is above 16,000 plants per mother plant with young materials but is only 125 with mature materials.
4293124|A reliable method to screen Anthurium for burrowing nematode resistance and tolerance in vitro was developed using 17 genetically distinct Anthurium cultivars. Based on nonparametric data analysis, tolerance and resistance were found to be independent traits to be evaluated separately. An effective parameter for tolerance evaluation was ranking of relative leaf retention, whereas an effective parameter for resistance evaluation was the ranking of nematode reproduction, log(Rf + 1). A comparison of the ranking of leaf retention with ranking of nematode reproduction clustered the cultivar responses to burrowing nematode infection into four groups: intolerant and resistant, moderately tolerant but susceptible, intolerant and susceptible, and tolerant and susceptible. 'Ozaki' was identified as an intolerant reference, 'Nitta' as a susceptible reference. 'Blushing Bride' was the most tolerant cultivar among those screened, but it may not be an ideal tolerant reference due to its low vigor. Future screening for burrowing nematode-tolerant and -resistant cultivars in Anthurium should include 'Ozaki' and 'Nitta' as internal controls. Evaluation of resistance should be based on a resistance index obtained by log(Rf of hybrid tested + 1) divided by log(Rf of 'Nitta' + 1); tolerance should be based on ranking of relative leaf retention.
20461602|A rapid and one-step protocol for direct regeneration of shoots from cumin embryo explants has been developed. Embryo explants with shoot meristems were cultured on shoot regeneration medium for 15-22 d. After embryo culture, shoots were regenerated from the area adjacent to the region between the cotyledons and embryo axis within 2 wk, without any intermediate callus phase. Shoot proliferation and elongation were achieved on shoot regeneration medium without subculture. Among the different combinations of 6-benzylaminopurine, -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) tested, 0.8 mg l (4.3 M) NAA in combination with 0.3 mg l (1.71 M) IAA in the B5 medium resulted in the most efficient direct shoot regeneration. No significant difference was detected for the number of regenerated explants when different heterogeneous endemic varieties were compared. This plant regeneration procedure was applicable to different cumin genotypes and regenerated plants were phenotypically normal.
4293270| Cassava is uniquely suited for food security and economic development in unfavored areas of the tropics. Development research for cassava is an urgent need. In 1998, the Cassava Biotechnology Network (CBN) convened a workshop of cassava stakeholder groups in Latin America. After hearing an opening statement from representatives of small-scale cassava producers and processors, stakeholders formulated a consensus set of research and development (R&D) priorities. An adequate supply of good-quality planting material of desired varieties was clearly the most urgent, followed by R&D on market-value traits; yield losses due to pests, diseases, and drought; and cropping system flexibility. Two new projects are using in vitro techniques to address priorities of small-scale cassava farmers in Latin America. One project in Colombia combines a nongovernmental organization, a local farmers' association, and the international research center, CIAT, to explore affordable micropropagation. Findings to date show that most culture medium components can be replaced with local products, and a rustic growth room permits good culture growth without electricity or air conditioning. Low-costs system(s) developed will be assessed as a local microenterprise. A second project, in Ecuador, couples local cassava germplasm (with oral histories and an in vitro back-up collection) and elite clones (introduced in vitro) with new concepts in agribusiness development, to restart local farmers' cooperatives after the disastrous 1998-99 el Nio floods. The project was developed through group planning by the cooperatives, the local technical university, the national agricultural research program, and CIAT. Research to improve in vitro tools focuses on safe and stable conservation and exchange of cassava genetic resources, long-term, less expensive conservation, rapid clonal propagation, and ultimately, genetic transformation technologies to add desired traits to useful cassava varieties. 
20461646|This paper addresses the assumed autonomy of vascular plants by revealing the presence of an obligate fungus structurally integrated with leaf antomy of C4 grasses. We examined leaf surfaces of 26 species representing 14 genera of C4 grasses. In all species, we found similarities between leaf surface microhair-like structures and Uredomycete teliospores. These bicellular structures produced hyphae and spores, confirming they were fungal, rather than plant tissue. The plant-fungus structural morphology was also observed in Bouteloua eriopoda plants regenerated from embryonic meristem cells. The conserved symbiosis between fungi and C4 grasses suggests a lichenous association with evolutionary significance. The structural integration of endosymbiotic fungi with cells and tissues offers novel and unexplored approaches to developing physiological, ecological, and systematic models of C4 grasses.
20461680|This paper reports the elimination of Indian citrus ringspot virus (ICRSV) from "kinnow" (Citrus nobilis Lour  Citrus deliciosa Tenora) employing phytotherapy coupled with shoot tip grafting under in vitro conditions. Nodal segments from infected mother plant (indexed by indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay [ELISA] and reverse transcriptase PCR [RT-PCR]) were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 2iP (1 mg/l or 4.9 M) and malt extract (800 mg/l) along with different concentrations of aqueous extracts from leaves of Azadirachta indica (Neem), Sorghum vulgare (Jowar), and roots of Boerhaavia diffusa (Punarnava). Shoot tips were excised from the nodal sprouts and grafted on to rough lemon (Citrus jambhiri) under aseptic conditions. Maximum effect (50% virus elimination) was seen for aqueous leaf extracts of A. indica followed by B. diffusa root extract (42.86%) and S. vulgare leaf extract (31.58%). Plants/plantlets were considered virus-free only when showing negative reactions by both indirect ELISA and RT-PCR.
4293070|Microspore-derived embryos of Brassica napus cv. Topas that survived salt stress, were obtained after selection against otherwise lethal doses (0.6 and 0.7%) of NaCl after mutagen treatment. A total of 10 salt-surviving embryos were obtained out of a possible 834 000 embryos that were mutagenized. One embryo out of a possible 845 000 obtained from non-mutagenized controls survived but failed to develop into a plant. Visual assessment after salt stress indicated that both the putative salt-tolerant plants and plants from control seeds behaved similarly. However, based on individual characteristics related to salt tolerance, one of the lines (PST-2) accumulated less sodium and retained more potassium, and hence was able to maintain a more favorable Na : K ratio as compared to the controls under salt stress. Also chlorophyll a fluorescence induction and quenching signals indicated a high energetic state of the thylakoid membranes in PST-2 under salt stress. The other putative salt-tolerant line (PST-1) had a higher background level of proline that may have enabled it to survive salt stress during initial screening, although its later performance was no better than the control plants.
4293292|Colletotrichum gloeosporioides Penz., the causal agent of mango anthracnose, produces a phytotoxin in vitro. The partially purified phytotoxin, presumably colletotrichin, caused anthracnose-like symptoms on young mango leaves, was toxic to embryogenic suspension cultures of two mango cultivars, 'Hindi' and 'Carabao,' and inhibited in vitro seed germination of two nonhosts, lettuce and tobacco. There were linear relationships between concentration of the partially purified phytotoxin and mortality of mango embryogenic cultures. Embryogenic cultures grown in the presence of the partially purified phytotoxin showed significantly lower growth rates than the controls. Similarly, embryogenic cultures grown in the presence of 40% (vol/vol) fungal culture filtrate showed significantly lower growth rates than unchallenged controls. Medium containing 40% (vol/vol) Czapek-Dox fungal broth did not reduce growth of embryogenic cultures, indicating the production of phytotoxin in vitro. The results suggest that either fungal culture filtrate or purified phytotoxin can be used as in vitro selection agents to screen for resistance to this fungus.
29736192|A complete protocol is presented for the first time for the micropropagation of Pongamia pinnata, a biofuel tree, using cotyledonary nodes derived from axenic seedlings. Multiple shoots were induced in vitro from nodal segments through forced axillary branching. Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 7.5 M benzylaminopurine (BAP) induced up to 6.8 shoots per node with an average shoot length of 0.67 cm in 12 d. Incorporation of 2.5 M gibberellic acid (GA) in the medium during the first subculture after establishment and initiation of shoot buds significantly improved the shoot elongation. Single use of GA during the first subculture eliminated the need for prolonged culturing on BAP medium. Further use of GA in the medium was not useful. Shoot culture was established for at least two subcultures without loss of vigor by repeatedly subculturing the original cotyledonary node on shoot multiplication medium followed by shoot elongation medium after each harvest of the newly formed shoots. Thus, from a single cotyledonary node, about 16-18 shoots were obtained in 60 d. Shoots formed in vitro were rooted on full-strength MS medium supplemented with 1.0 M indole butyric acid (IBA). Plantlets were successfully acclimated, established in soil, and transferred to the nursery.
4293590|An efficient and reproducible protocol for the regeneration of shoots at high frequency was developed by using explants derived from the axillary meristems from the cotyledonary nodes of in vitro-germinated seedlings of chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.). Culture conditions for various stages of adventitious shoot regeneration including the induction, elongation, and rooting of the elongated shoots were optimized. The medium for synchronous induction of multiple shoot buds consisted of Murashige and Skoog basal medium (MS) with low concentrations of thidiazuron (TDZ), 2-isopentenyladenine (2-iP), and kinetin. Exclusion of TDZ and lowering the concentration of 2-iP and kinetin in the elongation medium resulted in faster and enhanced frequency of elongated shoots. Cultivation of the stunted shoots on MS with giberellic acid (GA
4293306|Somatic embryogenesis was induced in callus cultures derived from nucellar tissue of cashewnut (Anacardium occidentale L.). Callus was obtained from nucellar tissue after 3 wk of culture on semisolid Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with
4293158| Bacteriophage lambda particles, yeast cells, and bacterial cells were tested as projectiles to deliver marker/reporter genes into plant cells via the biolistic process. When phage particles were complexed to tungsten or gold particles and used to bombard tobacco cells, fewer than 15 cell clusters per plate transiently expressed -glucuronidase (GUS). Cells of wild-type Saccharomyces cerevisiae were too large to be effective projectiles, but use of a reduced-size mutant resulted in a small number of transformants. Escherichia coli cells complexed with tungsten were the most effective projectile for plant transformation. Various methods to prepare E. coli were tested to reduce particle size, improve binding of bacteria to metal particles, and/or minimize particle clumping. In maize, the number of transformants was highest when bacteria/tungsten particles were air-dried onto macrocarriers from an aqueous solution. When maize cells were bombarded with bacteria/tungsten projectiles, rates of transient gene expression (2000 per plate) and stable transformation (50 per plate) were only two- to threefold lower than when purified DNA was used. Transformation of tobacco with E. coli projectiles was improved when the bacteria were treated with a series of ethanol and ether washes, then dried into a powder. Nevertheless, tobacco transformation was still 24- (transient) and 200-fold (stable) less than when purified DNA was used. Biological projectiles can be effective for plant transformation and are advantageous because once a DNA construct is made and put into the appropriate microorganism, the need to isolate and purify DNA for the biolistic process is eliminated, which saves time and lessens DNA shear. Such projectiles may be especially well suited where high molecular weight DNA constructs are needed. 
4293043|A cell suspension culture of poplar (Populus deltoides (Marsh.) Bartr. var. occidentalis Rydb.), accumulating the anthocyanin pigment, cyanidin 3-glucoside, in the lag phase of culture growth, was subjected to osmotic stress with glucose and mannitol. Osmotic stress treatments resulted in growth suppression and higher anthocyanin accumulation compared with unstressed cells. Both an increase in the proportion of pigmented cells and an increase in the concentration of anthocyanin in the pigmented cells were responsible for high anthocyanin content of cultured cells subjected to osmotic stress. The osmotic stress induced by glucose suppressed growth more than that by mannitol and produced higher anthocyanin levels. Only small amounts of
20461663|This study reports a protocol for successful micropropagation of Penthorum chinense using nodal explants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 6-benzyladenine (BA) or kinetin (Kn). The presence of BA promoted a higher rate of shoot multiplication than Kn. Maximum multiple shoot formation was observed in 59.2% of nodal explants cultured on MS medium supplemented with 2.0 mg l BA after 6 wk. After subculture for 4 wk, the maximum number of shoots (6.4) was obtained on a medium with 2.0 mg l BA, but shoots were too short and not suitable for micropropagation. The taller shoots that regenerated in the presence of lower BA concentration (1.0 mg l) were selected for root induction study. Most shoots (98.8%) rooted in the presence of 0.5 mg l indole-3-acetic acid after 3 wk, with each shoot forming an average of 10.0 roots. Plantlets were transferred to soil and successfully acclimatized.
29736200|Swertia chirata is an endangered Gentian species used as herbal medicine for various health ailments including liver disorders, malaria, and diabetes. The depletion of S. chirata from the wild for such applications is a concern. Slow rates of propagation because of poor seed germination and low seed viability are presently limiting factors for its large-scale commercial cultivation. For commercial plantation and conservation of existing germplasm, in vitro multiplication is an attractive solution. The present investigation has achieved production of genetically uniform plants from the nodal explants. Shoot regeneration was obtained in shoot-inducing medium containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog's basal medium supplemented with 0.44 M 6-benzylaminopurine and 4.65 M 6-furfurylaminopurine. The highest number of shoots, at 18 per explant, regenerated when media was further fortified with 10 mM KNO and 75 mg l of casein hydrolysate. Tissue culture regenerated plantlets were successfully transferred to the field and produced viable seeds. Studies of chromosome number and a comparative analysis of the DNA fingerprinting profiles indicate genetic stability of the regenerated plants.
23326892|Miscanthus  giganteus is a perennial grass considered to be one of the most promising biofuel and bioenergy crops because of its high biomass and quality, and low requirement for fertilizers and pesticides. Market demand for Miscanthus is rapidly increasing. However, M.  giganteus is a triploid that cannot produce viable seeds, and it has traditionally been propagated through rhizome division, which is low throughput and labor-intensive. Plant tissue culture provides the potential to propagate M.  giganteus in vitro while maintaining the original plant characteristics. Although protocols exist for M.  giganteus micropropagation, the multiplication rate and plant quality need to be improved to meet commercial demands. For this research, we have assessed callus induction, callus multiplication, plantlet regeneration, shoot multiplication, shoot quality improvement, rooting, plant acclimatization, and survival in the greenhouse and in the field. Through these studies, we have developed an efficient system for high-quality, large-scale micropropagation of M.  giganteus. The plants produced from our protocol exhibited more than 99% survival in soil due to the production of vigorous shoots and roots.
4292989| A complete protocol for micropropagation of 4-yr-old plants of the bamboo Dendrocalamus longispathus is described. Culture initiation was strongly influenced by the nature of the explant and the season. In vitro multiplication was achieved through forced axillary branching. Single node segments from the young lateral branches produced multiple shoots on agar-solidified Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 12 M benzylaminopurine (BAP) and 3 M kinetin. The shoots have been multiplied for 15 passages in liquid and thereafter for over 5 passages on semisolid MS + 15 M BAP + 1M indolebutyric acid (IBA) + 10% coconut water at a rate of 3.2- and 2.8-fold, every 4 wk, respectively. The nature of the propagule was a critical factor for shoot multiplication and rooting. Seventy-three percent of the shoots rooted on a modified MS medium (major salts reduced to half strength) containing 1 M indoleacetic acid, 1 M IBA, and 68 M coumarin. Through a simple in vitro hardening step, more than 85% of the tissue culture-raised plants were successfully transferred to soil. 
4293764| Seedlings from 11 seed sources (lines) of American ginseng from different geographic regions were evaluated on Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) containing 10 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 9 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) for callus development and somatic embryo formation. Leaf and stem explants callused at a frequency of 18.2-100%, while somatic embryos were produced from these calluses at a frequency of 25-87.5% after 5 mo. Suspension cultures of nine lines were established by transferring embryogenic callus to MS liquid medium with NAA and 2,4-D at 2.5 and 2.25 M, respectively, and maintained by subcultures every 8wk. Globular somatic embryos from these cultures were germinated on half-strength MS containing 1% activated charcoal, and roots > 5 mm in length developed within 3 wk. A 7-d exposure to 3 M gibberellic acid and 5 M 6-benzylaminopurine significantly enhanced shoot development and promoted further root development. The chromosome number, profiles of the common triterpenoid saponins (ginsenosides), and random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) banding patterns in plantlets derived from suspension culture were compared to those of zygotic seedlings. The chromosome number in root tip cells and suspension cultured cells was 48. Patterns of the six major ginsenosides, determined by thin-layer chromatography, in leaves of tissue culture-derived plantlets were identical to those in seedlings. RAPD patterns among plantlets originating from the same tissue-cultured line were mostly identical; however, altered patterns were observed in some lines that had been maintained in suspension culture for almost 4yr. The results from this study indicate that propagation of desired ginseng genotypes in suspension culture can be achieved, and that biochemical and molecular markers can be used for authentication of resulting plantlets. 
4293530|In this paper we discuss the changes in the number of plants developed per embryogenic mass, the percentage of embryogenic masses that developed plants, the percentage of plant regeneration, and the index of vigor of regenerated plants for embryogenic masses that were induced from daily samples of a cell suspension culture of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Taipei 309). The results indicate that embryogenic masses that matured first and were induced from freshly subcultured cell suspension culture had the highest values for the four parameters. An index of vigor of the regenerated plants was defined.
20461694|An effective micropropagation technique via somatic embryogenesis has been developed using tissue from serially grafted shoots generated from a mature Kalopanax septemlobus tree (40 y old). Callus was induced from leaf segments obtained from the grafts by culturing the explants in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2,4-D and 3% w/v sucrose under darkness. The effects of sucrose, coconut water, and polyethylene glycol (PEG-3350) were evaluated as factors to promote development of somatic embryos (SEs) from embryogenic callus. More than 90% of explants formed callus; however, only 2.5%, or 20 leaf segments out of 800 explants, formed embryogenic callus after 8 wk of culture. High sucrose concentrations (3% and 5% w/v) were effective in inducing SEs. Treatment with 2-10% v/v coconut water also had a positive effect on embryo induction. A synergistic effect on SE induction was obtained using sucrose and PEG, with presence of the latter compound resulting in smaller, more uniform SEs. Embryo germination and conversion to plantlets were significantly influenced by the gelling agents. In general, gelrite-gelled medium was superior to agar-gelled medium. In gelrite-gelled medium, gibberillic acid (GA) enhanced embryo germination. Converted plantlets in an artificial soil mixture showed a 91% survival rate and displayed no distinct morphological variations. Our results indicate that reliable somatic embryogenesis and plant production can be achieved with rejuvenated tissues after repeated grafting of shoots derived from a mature Kalopanax septemlobus tree.
4293522|Plum shoot proliferation was investigated in terms of two distinct processes: axillary bud differentiation and axillary shoot development. Results showed that light quality influenced bud differentiation and interacted with apical dominance in determining shoot outgrowth, resulting in a differentiated structure of shoot clusters and type of branching. Results suggested that blue light, acting through its photoreceptor, increased the number of axillary buds differentiated from apical meristem, but did not remove the apical dominance. Red light removed apical dominance, while reducing the formation of axillary buds; both events appeared to be dependent on the putative amount of phytochrome active form, and independent of light photon fluence rate. On the contrary, blue light action appeared to be dependent on photon fluence rate. In addition, apparent blue-red interactions related to photomorphogenic events fit an antagonistic model for branching regulated by light via cryptochrome and phytochrome photoreceptors. Our results show that the dynamics of shoot cluster development is the product of two events: the formation of new axillary buds and their release from apical dominance.
4293583|Caustis blakei is an attractive cut foliage plant harvested from the wild in Australia and marketed under the name of koala fern. Previous attempts to propagate large numbers of this plant have been unsuccessful. The effect of four light irradiances on organogenesis from compact and friable callus of C. blakei was studied for 21 wk. Both callus types produced numerous primordial shoots but many failed to develop into green plantlets. However, significantly more primordial shoots and green plantlets developed on the friable callus than on the compact callus, and significantly more green plantlets were regenerated under the higher photon irradiances of 200 and
20461564|A method for the micropropagation of Spathiphyllum cannifolium is presented using shoot tip proliferation onto Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with different plant growth regulator concentrations and combinations. The proliferation responses were significantly influenced by the cytokinin type and concentrations. Supplementation of the medium with benzyladenine (BA; 4.44-13.32 M) increased the shoot proliferation rate significantly as compared to other treatments. When cytokinins were used with auxin (indole-3-butyric acid, IBA and naphthalene acetic acid, NAA), the number of shoots per explant increased in comparison with treatments with BA alone. The largest number of shoots, 9.3 per explant, was obtained with 13.32 M BA and 4.9 M IBA. Different MS medium strengths and sucrose concentrations were used with the aim to stimulate in vitro shoot proliferation. Full MS medium with 30 g l sucrose was found to be suitable for shoot tip culture of Spathiphyllum. Comparative studies between gelled medium and bioreactor culture [continuous immersion (with or without net) and temporary immersion in liquid media using ebb and flood] revealed that shoot multiplication and growth were more efficient in continuous immersion (with net) bioreactor with low cytokinin-supplemented media. Plantlets from the bioreactor were cultured hydroponically for 30 d and 100% of plants were rooted and acclimatized successfully. Rapid and efficient multiplication rate in bioreactor and successful transfer to greenhouse makes this protocol suitable for large-scale multiplication of this important foliage plant.
20461750|Seashore paspalum (Paspalum vaginatum Swartz) is a salt tolerant, fine textured turfgrass used on golf courses in coastal, tropical, and subtropical regions. A callus induction and plant regeneration protocol for this commercially important turfgrass species has been developed. Induction of highly regenerable callus with approximately 400 shoots per cultured immature inflorescence (1 cm in length) was achieved by culturing 0.2 cm segments on media with 3 mg l 3,6-dichloro-2-methoxybenzoic acid (dicamba) and 0.1 or 1.0 mg l benzylaminopurine (BA). A multifactorial experiment demonstrated the combination of 3 mg l dicamba and 1.0 mg l BA for induction of callus resulted in 12 times higher plant regeneration frequency compared to 3 mg l 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) alone or ten times higher plant regeneration frequency than the combination of 3 mg l 2,4-D and 1.0 mg l BA. These results are expected to support the development of a genetic transformation protocol for seashore paspalum.
41318703|Recent research has reported the presence of melatonin (N-acetyl-5-methoxytryptamine), a mammalian indoleamine neurohormone, in higher plants, indicating that melatonin may be an important metabolic regulator that has been highly conserved across biological kingdoms. Melatonin is synthesized from tryptophan in the mammalian pineal gland and a similar biosynthetic pathway was recently described in St. John's wort shoot tissues, wherein radiolabel from tryptophan was recovered in serotonin and melatonin as well as indoleacetic acid. There is growing information describing melatonin control of physiological processes in mammals, yeast, and bacteria, including diurnal responses, detoxification of free radicals, and environmental adaptations. However, at the current time, there is no known specific role for melatonin in plant physiology. Alterations in melatonin concentrations in plant tissues have been shown to affect root development, mitosis, and mitotic spindle formation. The recent advancements in melatonin research in plants and some directions for important areas of future research are reviewed in this article.
4293758|The effect of different sealing materials [i.e., polyvinyl chloride (PVC) transparent film, and Parafilm (PARA)] for Petri dishes was investigated on shoot regeneration from quince (Cydonia oblonga L.) 'BA 29' leaf explants. Leaves were excised from proliferating shoot cultures, transversally scored, and placed with the abaxial side down in 60-mm Petri dishes containing 10 ml of Murashige and Skoog modified medium, with
4293552|Nodal cuttings of Eucalyptus camaldulensis L. plantlets were cultured photoautotrophically (sugar-free nutrient medium and with enriched CO
40663764|Germplasm conservation of Podophyllum peltatum L. was attempted by using synthetic seed technology and media supplemented with osmotic agents. Excised buds from in vitro cultures were encapsulated in calcium alginate beads and cultured on different substrates then stored at 5, 10, and 25C for up to 8 mo. Survival and vigor in re-growth were the parameters used to evaluate the germplasm storage conditions. Vigor in re-growth was measured by number of buds induced after storage, which was achieved on a substrate containing water solidified with 1% wlv agar under 10 C. In vitro storage of shoot cultures was also evaluated by supplementing osmotic agents, mannitol, or sorbitol to the media. Such treatment had a negative impact on post-storage re-growth (at 25C), even though the inclusion of 2% wlv sorbitol and mannitol each to the media increased plantlet survival during 10C storage treatment. A deleterious effect was noticed among cultures in re-growth when higher concentrations of these supplements were added to the media. Genetic stability was assessed following 8 mo of storage using a PCR-based multilocus DNA fingerprinting technique, amplified fragment-length polymorphism. No differences in the DNA fragment patterns were observed using eight primer combinations in stored clones. However, a polymorphic band was noticed in the accession that served as expiant source, suggesting that the mutation has occurred prior to this study perhaps during the 9 yr of in vitro cultivation.
4293715|The diploid cotton species can constitute a valuable gene pool for the more agronomically desirable cultivated tetraploid cultivars and offer better opportunities to study gene structure and function through gene knockouts. In order to exploit these advantages, a regeneration system is required to achieve these transformation-based goals. Carbohydrate source and concentration were evaluated to improve somatic embryo (SE) production and desiccation treatments to improve the conversion efficiency of SEs to plants in a diploid Gossypium arboreum accession,
4293371|Direct gene transfer into peanut intact embryonic leaflets was performed through electroporation. In transient
23016599|The Southwest Australian Floristic Region (SWAFR) is a plant biodiversity hotspot with a geographically isolated and predominantly endemic flora. Known threatening processes (i.e. excessive clearing of native vegetation, soil salinity, soil erosion and chronic weed infestation) combined with uncertain but potentially deleterious environmental (climate) changes pose great challenges for conservation and restoration efforts. With a paucity of nature reserves, in situ protection of species can be problematic. For many species, ex situ conservation becomes the only viable strategy for saving species from extinction via seed banking or living collections established through vegetative propagation, or tissue (in vitro) culture methods. Development of specific in vitro protocols is necessary to successfully initiate culture lines, with considerable development of nutrient media, plant growth regulator regimes and incubation conditions required to optimise shoot regeneration and multiplication, especially with woody species of the SWAFR. In addition, integration of root induction and acclimatization stages has allowed significant improvements in speed and success of plant production of both endangered and difficult-to-propagate woody species. We contend that there is also considerable potential for expansion of alternative in vitro technologies such as somatic embryogenesis for difficult taxa to complement existing ex situ conservation and restoration strategies in biodiversity hotspots such as SWAFR.
4293893| An efficient protocol was established for in vitro shoot multiplication from nodal explants of Clitoria ternatea on semisolid Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with 8.9 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA). Inclusion of 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) in the culture medium along with BA promoted higher rates of shoot multiplication than BA alone. The rate of shoot multiplication was maximum (5.21) after 4 wk of culture on MS basal medium supplemented with 8.9 M BA and 1.34 M NAA. The elongated shoots rooted within 7-8 d in half-strength MS basal salts supplemented with 1.34 M NAA and 2% (w/v) sucrose. About 85% of the rooted plantlets were acclimatized and transferred to the greenhouse. 
20461617|In oak species, there is paucity of information on the anatomical changes underlying differentiation of somatic embryos from explants of mature trees. A histological study was undertaken to ascertain the cellular origin and ontogenesis of somatic embryos in leaf cultures from a 100-yr-old Quercus robur tree. Somatic embryogenesis was induced in expanding leaves excised from shoots forced from branch segments, following culture on three successive media containing different concentrations of -naphthaleneacetic acid and 6-benzylaminopurine. The somatic embryogenesis followed an indirect pathway from a callus tissue formed in the leaf lamina. After 4-6 wk of culture, meristematic cells originated in superficial layers of callus protuberances, but these cells evolved into differentiated vacuolated cells rather than embryos. A subsequent dedifferentiation into embryogenic cells occurred later (9-12 wk of culture) within a dissociating callus. Embryogenic cells exhibited dense protein-rich protoplasm, high nucleoplasmic ratio, and contained small starch grains. Successive divisions of these cells led to the formation of a few-celled proembryos and embryogenic cell clumps within a thick common cell wall, which seemed to have originated unicellularly. However, a multicellular origin of larger embryogenic clumps could not be dismissed; these gave rise to embryonic nodular structures that developed somatic embryos of both uni- and multicellular origin. Somatic embryos at successive stages of development, including cotyledonary-stage embryos with shoot and root meristems, were apparent.
20064821|Haploid and diploid anther-derived Zea mays callus lines were treated with the antimicrotubule herbicide pronamide to produce mixed ploidy callus as determined by flow cytometry. The ploidy levels of the plants regenerated from the callus were determined by counting the leaf epidermal guard cell chloroplast numbers. The proportion of diploid regenerated plants was somewhat lower than the proportion of diploid cells of the callus. The diploid plants regenerated somewhat faster than the haploids. The proportion of tetraploids regenerated from the pronamide treated diploid callus, which originated by spontaneous chromosome doubling, was much lower than the proportion of cells indicating that tetraploid cells survive or regenerate plants at a lower frequency than diploid cells.
20064813|The betalains are a class of natural pigments comprising the yellow betaxanthins and the violet betacyanins. Callus lines developed from Beta vulgaris L. var. bikores monogerm exhibited cell colors ranging from white/green (nonpigmented) through yellow, orange, red, and violet and were representative of all betalain pigments found in the whole plant. The betalains have gained particular interest from the food industry as potential natural alternatives to synthetic food colorants in use today. Red beet extracts (E162), which contain significant amounts of the betacyanins, are currently used in products such as yogurts and ice creams. We describe here the characteristics of culture growth and betalain production for cell suspensions derived from the orange (predominantly betaxanthin-producing) and violet (betacyanin producing) callus lines. The major factors affecting betalain biosynthesis in both cultured and whole plant tissues are reviewed.
4292942| The lengthy dormancy requirement of yew seeds can be overcome with a simple in vitro method. Viable embryos were excised from seeds of Taxus brevifolia and four cultivars of T. media over a range of developmental stages. Embryos were cultured in several basal media formulations (Whites', Gamborg's B5 and Murashige and Skoog's) under dark or light. After a lag period of 1 to 2 wk, embryos of both species germinated precociously. Germination rates of up to 70% were obtained with T. media cv. Hicksi embryos. The highest rates of germination were obtained in White's and MS media. Embryos excised from green seeds with undeveloped arils showed the highest germination rates. As the seeds approached maturity, in vitro germination rates of the excised embryos declined dramatically. Green seeds and seeds with developing arils could be stored at 5 C without large loss in embryo germination. Seeds with fully developed arils could be stored frozen at -20 C for 1 wk while still allowing about 50% of embryo germination. At least 30% of the precociously germinated embryos of both species were able to develop into full seedlings. Our method appears to be generally applicable to Taxus spp. 
4293355|The growth of submerged cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) fibers from cultured ovules has been investigated. The results indicate that exogenous plant hormone levels regulate the induction of submerged fiber growth. The age of ovules at induction is also important. Cell diameter, wall thickness, and cell length of submerged fibers were measured and compared with air-grown fibers and fibers grown in vivo (produced by cotton plants grown in the greenhouse). Various cell-wall thickening patterns were observed among submerged fibers, while only one predominant cell-wall deposition pattern was produced in air-grown fibers and in fibers produced in vivo. The diameter of submerged fibers was about the same as that of air-grown fibers but about 22% less than that of fibers grown in vivo. It appears that the secondary cell wall thickenings are initiated earlier in submerged fibers. The cell-wall thickness of submerged fibers, at 41 d post anthesis (DPA), was 51% greater than that of fibers grown in vivo, whereas the cell-wall thickness of air-grown fibers was 42% less than that of fibers produced in vivo. The cell length of submerged fibers was approximately half that of fibers grown in vivo, and the air-grown fiber length was about two-thirds of fibers grown in vivo. The age of ovules at induction affects the outcome of the air-grown fiber-cell length, but does not appear to affect the length of submerged fiber cells. To produce submerged fiber growth, we found that the optimal age of ovules at induction was 0 DPA, and the optimal medium (with a GA
4293906|Genetic engineering techniques have so far had limited impact in the field of ornamental horticulture. As outlined in this review, transformation systems and potential genes of interest are available. As the development of new, novel varieties is an important driving force in the industry, there are, therefore, good prospects for the development of genetically modified ornamental varieties. The few products in the market to date may simply be a reflection of the relatively small scale of the industry compared to the major food crops, and the wide diversity of species within it. Commercial issues attendant to the use of gene technology in ornamental plants need careful consideration. These include careful choice of crop and background variety, the international regulatory process and freedom to operate.
23326881|Roses are an important commercial crop available in a wide range of varieties in international markets. Due to its economic value, this study aimed to establish a new and reproducible protocol for the in vitro propagation of Rosa damascena Mill. We developed an efficient and cost-effective method for rapid and high-quality shoot multiplication and in vitro rooting of Damask rose using nodal explants. For each stage of the micropropagation procedure (i.e., explant establishment, shoot multiplication and growth, and rooting), different media and combinations of plant growth regulators were utilized. A new culture medium, termed A 19 , resulted in significant improvements to shoot proliferation and root induction for this rose cultivar. For optimal explant establishment, shoot growth, and proliferation, a modified Murashige and Skoog medium with higher levels of nitrates, calcium, and iron plus supplementation with 4 mg/l 6-benzylaminopurine and 0.25 mg/l indole-3-acetic acid was utilized. To increase shoot length, 75 d after culture initiation (including two subcultures), shoots were transferred to the same medium additionally supplemented with 0.2 mg/l gibberellic acid. This resulted in vigorous shoot growth, with longer shoots and a greater number of shoots per explant. Shoots were then separated and transferred to various root induction medium for 30 d. The results clearly showed that a liquid A 19 medium-A (i.e., with half-strength macroelements) supplemented with 0.1 mg/l indole-3-butyric-acid was the most successful medium for in vitro rooting in this cultivar. Shoots were cultured in this medium for 7 d in the dark, before transfer to liquid A 19 medium-A without hormone supplementation under a 16-h photoperiod. This modified protocol resulted in significant improvement in shoot regeneration and proliferation and obtained stronger shoots over a period of about 20 wk.
4293305| Efficient shoot regeneration of sugarcane (Saccharum spp. hybrid cv. CP84-1198) from embryogenic callus cultures has been obtained using thidiazuron (TDZ). Callus was placed on modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 2.3 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), or 9.3 M kinetin and 22.3 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and compared with the same MS medium supplemented with 0.5, 1.0, 2.5, 5.0 or 10.0 M TDZ. All TDZ treatments resulted in faster shoot regeneration than the kinetin/NAA treatment, and more shoot production than either the 2,4-D or kinetin/NAA treatments. Maximum response, as determined by total number of shoots (26 per explant) and number of shoots greater than 1 cm (4 per explant) 4 wk after initiation, was obtained with 1.0 M TDZ. The shoots rooted efficiently on MS medium supplemented with 19.7 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). These results indicate that TDZ effectively stimulates sugarcane plant regeneration from embryogenic callus, and may be suitable to use in genetic transformation studies to enhance regeneration of transgenic plants. 
20065023|The relative ease of producing transgenic plants is an enormous experimental advantage for studies into the organization, function and evolution of plant genes and their expression systems. Transgenes are usually chimeric assemblies of cloned or synthetic DNA from diverse organisms that are introduced into plants. Using current transformation strategies their insertion sites within the plant genome are unpredictable. Although many experimental variables influence the final expression pattern of the transgene, reproducible patterns can often be achieved. Several components that are essential for predictable and efficient transgene expression have been described in the literature. The strategies and options for enhanced control of transgene expression are expanding rapidly; however, knowledge is needed in certain areas, such as the mechanism of transcription and chromatin remodeling, to fully exploit the possibilities. These areas will therefore receive greater attention in this article. The possibilities for biotechnology will grow enormously as new mechanisms for controlling transgene expression in crops species are developed.
4293659| A regeneration system was developed for elite Egyptian maize inbred lines using immature embryos as explants. This system proved to be highly genotype-dependent. Line Gz 643 was identified as the best line, revealing the highest regeneration frequency (42.2%). Addition of L-proline and silver nitrate to culture media greatly enhanced the formation of embryogenic type II callus and the regenerability of some of the tested lines. Transformation of the scutellar tissue of immature embryos from inbred line Gz 643 was performed with the particle delivery system using a single plasmid carrying both the GUS and Bar genes (pAB-6) or by co-transformation with two plasmids, pActl-F (GUS) and pTW-a (Bar). Different transformation parameters were evaluated, i.e. osmotic treatment, acceleration pressure, and number of shots. Osmotic treatment (0.25 M sorbitol + 0.25 M mannitol) along with the use of either acceleration pressure 1300 psi and one shot per plate (for co-transformation with pAB-6) or 1100 psi and two shots per plate (for transformation with pActl-F and pTW-a) gave the best results, as expressed by the number of blue spots in the -glucuronidase (GUS) assay. Stable transformation was confirmed in Ro transformed plants by means of histochemical GUS assay and herbicide application. PCR and Southern blot analysis proved the integration of the full-length genes in some of the transgenics. 
20461601|This study reports the direct regeneration of flower buds from cultured sepal segments of Sinningia speciosa Hiern. Two types of floral bud regeneration were observed: regeneration of floral buds only (designed as
4293338|Thidiazuron (TDZ) is a substituted phenylurea which has been shown to be an efficacious regulator of in vitro morphogenesis of many dicot plant species. However, information regarding the effect of TDZ on in vitro regeneration of monocot species is limited. We investigated the effects of TDZ on in vitro regeneration of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and found that it promoted shoot regeneration from callus in these two important cereal species. Plant regeneration from calluses derived from immature embryo culture of barley and wheat was observed in regeneration media with a wide range of TDZ concentrations (
42568709|A simple and efficient protocol for obtaining organogenesis from mature nodal explants of Citrus macrophylla (alemow) and Citrus aurantium (sour orange) has been developed by optimizing the concentrations of the plant growth regulators, the incubation conditions, the basal medium and by the choice of expiant. In order to optimize the plant growth regulator balance, expiants were cultured in the regeneration medium supplemented with several N - benzyladenine (BA) concentrations or with 2 mgl BA in combination with kinetin (KIN) or l-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The presence of BA was found to be essential for the development of adventitious buds; the best results were obtained using BA at 3 and 2 mg for alemow and sour orange, respectively. The combination of BA with KIN or NAA in the culture medium decreased the regeneration frequency, with respect to the use of BA alone. The effect of three different basal media was rootstock-dependent. For C. macrophylla the best results were obtained with Woody Plant Medium or Driver and Kuniyuki Walnut Medium (DKW). However, for C. aurantium, although high percentages of regenerating expiants were obtained independently of the basal medium used, the highest number of buds per regenerating expiants was obtained with DKW medium. Attempts were made to identify the type of expiants which had a higher regeneration ability using particular regions along the mature shoots of C. macrophylla. When nodal segments, where the buds were completely removed, and internode segments were compared, the highest percentage of responsive expiants was obtained with nodal segments. The existence of a morphogenetic gradient along the shoot was observed and the organogenic efficiency was highest when explants from the apical zone were used. Incubation in darkness for 3 or 4 wk was essential for regeneration process in both rootstocks.
4293130| Interior spruce (Picea glauca engelmannii complex) somatic embryos grown on 48 mol ()-ABA per L over a period of 42 d without transfer underwent precocious germination by 49 d. Those transferred at 28 d to fresh medium with 48 mol ()-ABA continued embryo development until harvested at 56 d; the transfer at 28 d resulted in an increase in embryo lipid content after 42 d. Somatic embryos grown under this condition contained 181.4  41.2, 116.0  42.4, and 91.8  33.6 ng ( +)-ABA per mg of lyophilized tissue at 42, 49, and 56 d, respectively. By comparison, embryos grown without the transfer at 28 d had 86.8  25.4 ng (+)-ABA per mg of lyophilized tissue at 42 d, just prior to precocious germination. After 3 weeks' storage in a drying chamber under high humidity, the (+)-ABA content of 56-d-old transferred embryos decreased to 15.4  4.4 ng (+)-ABA per mg of lyophilized tissue. The increased lipid content resulting from embryo transfer and the reduction in internal (+)-ABA content during storage are factors which will contribute to improved conversion of somatic embryos to plantlets. 
25623028|Until recently, information about the effects of transforming plants with the rolA gene of Agrobacterium rhizogenes has been restricted mainly to dicots in which a severely wrinkled phenotype, reduced internode distances, and abnormal reproductive development were commonly observed. In this work, we analyzed the effects associated with the expression of this gene in a new genetic context: the forage grass genome. Transgenic ${\rm P}_{35{\rm S}}\bullet rolA$ plants of blue grama grass (Bouteloua gracilis) were obtained by a biolistic approach employing embryogenic chlorophyllic cells as the target material. Four independent transgenic lines with regeneration capacity were recovered, which showed stable integration of this transgene as demonstrated by polymerase chain reaction and Southern blot hybridization. Growth of the rolA-transformed lines under greenhouse conditions provided evidence for a new biotechnological application for the rolA gene in plants, namely, the improvement of biomass production in forage grasses. Additionally, we described here a new phenotypic marker (referred to here as the "hairy embryo" syndrome) that can be instrumental for the early identification of transformation events when transforming grasses with this gene.
4292954|An optimum 10-day exposure of petioles of alfalfa [Medicago sativa ssp.falcata (L.) Arcangeli] to 2,4-dichlorophen-oxyacetic acid or 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid results in the semisynchronous production of somatic embryos starting about 4 days after transfer to a non-auxin-containing medium. The timing of cell division induction in the petiole explants was found to vary depending on the petiole tissue type. Cells adjacent to the vascular bundles divide first at about 48 h after exposure to auxin, closely followed by those of the inner parenchyma, whereas most of the cells of the subepidermal and epidermal layers start to divide later, between 72 and 120 h. Two different sources of callus were also evident. Cells adjacent to the vascular bundles and the inner parenchyma cells were the primary source of callus when a short, 2-day (non-embryo-producing) exposure to auxin was used. In contrast, the subepidermal and epidermal cells were the primary source of callus tissue when a longer, 10-day (embryo producing) exposure was used. It is concluded that the source of somatic embryos is primarily the daughter cells of the subepidermal or epidermal tissue or both.
4293662| Shoot tips, of four potato cultivars (Dsire, Genet, Tigoni, and Tomensa), 3-4 mm in size, were precultured for 2d on Murashige and Skoog (MS) solid medium, then encapsulated in calcium alginate to produce hollow bead synthetic seed capsules averaging 0.78 cm in diameter. Regeneration and 'regrowth' were tested on MS solid medium and on soil in the greenhouse, respectively. The encapsulated shoot tips were stored at 4 and 10C for up to 390 d. For all cultivars, the encapsulated shoot tips stored at both temperatures for 180 d and at 4C for 270 d, 100% regeneration on MS solid medium was recorded. After 360 d in storage at 4C, 70.8% (Tigoni), 66.7% (Genet), 58.3% (Dsire), and 51.5% (Tomensa) regeneration was recorded on MS medium, reducing to 15% (Tigoni), 25% (Genet), 10% (Dsire), and 0% (Tomensa) regeneration after 390 d in storage. 'Regrowth' of 93-100% was recorded for non-stored encapsulated shoot tips, directly transferred on soil in the greenhouse after a 2 wk preculture on MS solid medium with an added fungicide (carbendazim) in the encapsulating gel. The 'regrown' shoot tips produced plants showing normal development. The results presented here demonstrate that hollow bead synthetic seed capsules are an alternative propagating method for potato seed production. 
29736164|A method was developed for in vitro regeneration of plants via somatic embryogenesis in Chorispora bungeana, an alpine plant with freeze-tolerance, using cell suspensions initiated from leaf-derived callus. Primary calli were induced from leaves of C. bungeana grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) media supplemented with 4.0 mgl gibberellic acid (GA), 0.2 mgl -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 0.2 mgl 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Suspension culture was initiated by incubating the callus particulates in liquid MS medium supplemented with 1.0 mgl kinetin (KT) and 0.2 mgl NAA. Individual early cotyledonary-stage somatic embryos isolated from cell suspension developed into whole plants on medium containing high levels of sucrose (60 and 90 gl), whereas lower sucrose concentrations (0 and 30 gl) were inhibitory to main root development. On the MS medium with 90 gl sucrose, one regenerated plant exhibited hetero-morphologic leaves, while other plants grown on different media showed a transformation from stem to root.
4293096|Brugmansia Candida hairy roots, obtained by infection with Agrobacterium rhizogenes LBA 9402, exhibit, after subculturing in liquid media, a tendency towards dedifferentiation. It has been found that the following strategies can be applied to inhibit this dedifferentiation and preserve normal root morphology: (a) lowering both the mineral and sucrose concentration in the media employed so as to diminish osmotic stress (a condition to which these roots appear to be particularly susceptible); (b) employing antiauxins in appropriate concentrations; and (c) maintaining the hairy roots on solid media prior to use in production processes in liquid media. The first strategy suggested does not favor alkaloid productivity, but in this case a two-step method could be attempted: biomass with normal root morphology could be obtained in a first stage using low sucrose concentrations, and in a second stage, sucrose could be increased in order to achieve higher productivity. In all the clones of B. Candida obtained, alkaloid production was biased towards scopolamine.
20461625|Dendrobium hybrids have great economic importance in a number of countries. Asymbiotic seed germination and the conventional vegetative method have been commonly used by growers to propagate these plants. To overcome somaclonal variation, which is commonly exhibited by Dendrobium (Nobile group) when micropropagated from protocorm-like bodies, a protocol for propagating Dendrobium Second Love in vitro using axillary buds in the presence of thidiazuron was developed. Random amplified polymorphic DNA analysis was also carried out to check for possible genetic alterations in plants originating from six consecutive subcultures. The results revealed that the established protocol was efficient for the in vitro cloning of this orchid hybrid and the plants obtained from the six subcultures did not exhibit any type of polymorphism.
20461702|The stable insertion and expression of multiple transgenes in crops is highly desirable, as the manipulation of complex agronomic traits and the introduction of novel biosynthetic pathways are dependent upon it. This study was performed to explore the frequency and efficiency of introducing multiple genes in soybean by using somatic embryogenesis and microprojectile bombardment transformation. The co-transformation frequency of six selectable marker or reporter genes (GusA, bleomycin resistance, glufosinate resistance, hygromycin resistance, green fluorescent protein, and kanamycin resistance) were followed throughout the T0, T1, and T2 generations. Three bombardment strategies were compared to determine the best method to generate transgenic plants that express the introduced transgenes and have a simple insertion pattern that would facilitate any downstream breeding. The plasmid bombardment treatments were (1) a six-gene-containing plasmid, (2) an equimolar treatment of five individual plasmids that collectively contained the six transgenes of interest (genes of glufosinate and hygromycin resistance were on the same plasmid), and (3) a 1:9 ratio mixture of the five plasmids, in which the plasmid containing the selectable marker used in the regeneration process, hygromycin resistance, was used in ninefold excess to all the other plasmids. Of the six bombardments performed per plasmid treatment, the results of seven independent events for the six-gene plasmid, four events for the 1:9 treatment, and a single regenerated event for the equimolar treatment indicate that containing all the transgenes on one plasmid just had an advantage in terms of frequency of a successful transformation events. Based on Southern analysis, the only events that contained all six transgenes was the one obtained by the equimolar treatment. No event was obtained that expressed all six transgenes, and certain transgenes seem to be non-randomly lost, namely gusA, bleomycin resistance, and glufosinate resistance, regardless of treatment. The addition of elements to optimize the expression of each gene cassette when multiple genes are in close proximity needs to be further investigated.
4293641|The kinds of data obtained in micropropagation studies are very often problematic, since they do not follow continuous distribution and observations through culture vessels complicate measurement. Accordingly, standard analyses are often used, leading to misinterpretation of results. In this paper, we present a study of Viburnum opulus micropropagation using planned contrasts and fitting regression models in generalized linear models as an alternative statistical analysis of micropropagation results, and compare the results with that of traditional ANOVA. The advantages and possibilities of these alternative data analyses in plant tissue culture are discussed.
4293362|Results from experiments using protoplasts in space, performed on the Biokosmos 9 satellite in 1989 and on the Space Shuttle on the IML-1-mission in 1992 and S/MM-03 in 1996, are presented. This paper focuses on the observation that the regeneration capacity of protoplasts is lower under micro-g conditions than under 1 g conditions. These aspects have been difficult to interpret and raise new questions about the mechanisms behind the observed effects. In an effort to try to find a key element to the poor regeneration capacity, ground-based studies were initiated focusing on the effect of the variable organization and quantity of corticular microtubules (CMTs) as a consequence of short periods of real and simulated weightlessness. The new results demonstrated the capacity of protoplasts to enter division, confirming the findings in space that this was affected by gravity. The percentage of dividing cells significantly decreased as a result of exposure to simulated weightlessness on a 2-D clinostat. Similar observations were made when comparing the wall components, which confirmed that the reconstitution of the cell wall was retarded under both space conditions and simulated weightlessness. The peroxidase activity in protoplasts exposed to microgravity was slightly decreased in both 0 g and 1 g flight samples compared with the ground controls, whereas activity in the protoplasts exposed to simulated weightlessness was similar to activity in the 1 g control. The observation that protoplasts had randomized and more sparse corticular microtubules when exposed to various forms of simulated and real weightlessness on a free-fall machine on the ground could indicate that the low division capacity in 0 g protoplasts was correlated with an abnormal CMT array in these protoplasts. This study has increased our knowledge of the more basic biochemical and cell biological aspects of g effects. This is an important link in preparation for the new space era, when it will be possible to follow the growth of single cells and tissue cultures for generations under microgravity conditions on the new International Space Station, which will be functional on a permanent basis from the year 2003.
20541026|This issue of in vitro plant is dedicated to various aspects of biofuel research and development. The editors have sought the experts in this field and solicited manuscripts for this special issue publication from various academic institutions, government (USDA, DOE), industry (Mendel, Alellyx, Canavilas, Syngenta, Monsanto), and various countries (USA, China, Brazil, India, and Australia). This has resulted in state-of-the-art articles describing ethanol and also biodiesel research. These publications highlight the status of biofuel research across the globe and also focus on private, public, and government interests. This is especially noteworthy in that President Barack Obama has stated that renewable energy is a pivotal aspect of his policy for the USA. The objective of this introduction is to provide the reader with the pertinent background information relative to the biofuel efforts within the private sector, academia, and government laboratories. In particular, the history of biofuel research and commercialization is provided as well as a summary of the various crop systems available for biofuel production.
41318712|Artemisia annua produces a large number of unique terpenoids, making it of particular interest as a source of phytochemicals and a useful model plant for studying terpenoid metabolism. The ability to engineer fast-growing in vitro cultures to produce terpenoids in high yield would be a dramatic step towards commercial use. Two distinct pathways have been characterized in higher plants leading to the biosynthesis of isopentenyl diphosphate, the common precursor to all terpenes: the cytosolic mevalonate pathway and the plastid-localized mevalonate-independent pathway. While transformed roots of A. annua have been demonstrated to be superior to whole plants in terms of yield of the sesquiterpene artemisinin, they appear to lack functional chloroplasts, bringing into question the presence of a functional mevalonateindependent pathway. Using a cDNA library made from these roots, we isolated two clones encoding deoxy-D-xylulose-5-phosphate synthase (DXPS) and deoxy-D-xylulose-5-phosphate reductoisomerase (DXPR). The biochemical function of both enzymes was confirmed by complementing E. coli dxps-and dapr-mutants. Northern blot analysis showed that the transformed root cultures expressed these genes at different levels during the culture cycle. In addition, cultures grown in continuous light showed substantial increases in DXPS transcript levels compared to dark-grown cultures. These results represent an important step towards demonstrating the presence of the plastid-localized terpenoid biosynthetic pathway in these easily engineered in vitro cultures.
20064968|In vitro coculture of plant tissue explants with beneficial microorganisms induces developmental and metabolic changes in the derived plantlets which enhance their tolerance to abiotic and biotic stresses. The induced resistance response caused by the inoculants is referred to as "biotization." There is enough experimental evidence with bacteria (bacterization) and vesicular arbuscular mycorrhiza (mycorrhization) inoculations to recommend utilization of this technology in commercial micropropagation. The paper reviews literature on this topic, outlines other uses and potential uses of in vitro plant-microbial cocultures, and discusses their current constraints.
4292990|Artemisia annua L. is the source of a potent antimalarial, artemisinin. As part of a program to produce artemisinin through tissue culture, a series of 14 multifactorial experiments were conducted to determine suitable conditions for initiating and maintaining friable callus from A. annua. In the first six experiments, three different nutrient formulations [Gamborg B5 (B5), Murashige and Skoog (MS), and Whetmore and Rier (WR)], each with 32 combinations of auxins and cytokinins [2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) with benzyladenine (BA), or 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) with 6-furfurylaminopurine (kinetin)], were tested. Both B5 and WR nutrients supported friable callus formation from leaf explants with some combinations of auxin and cytokinin. Inasmuch as friable callus seemed to be produced over a wider range of auxin and cytokinin concentrations in combination with B5, the remaining experiments were conducted solely with this nutrient formulation. In the remaining eight experiments, it was determined that friable callus formed when combinations of NAA with kinetin or 2,4-D and BA were used with B5 medium. Lighter colored, more friable callus formed in response to 2,4-D and BA than with NAA and kinetin. No single combination of concentrations of auxin and cytokinin seemed to be "ideal" for producing friable callus. Ranges of 2,4-D from 0.5 to 2.0 with BA between 0.025 and 0.1, or NAA between 0.5 and 2.0 with kinetin between 0.5 and 1.0 mg/liter, produced acceptable results.
20541018|An efficient in vitro plant regeneration protocol through somatic embryogenesis and direct shoot organogenesis has been developed for pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum). Efficient plant regeneration is a prerequisite for a complete genetic transformation protocol. Shoot tips, immature inflorescences, and seeds of two genotypes (843B and 7042-DMR) of pearl millet formed callus when cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with varying levels of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D; 4.5, 9, 13.5, and 18 M). The level of 2,4-D, the type of explant, and the genotype significantly effected callus induction. Calli from each of the three explant types developed somatic embryos on MS medium containing 2.22 M 6-benzyladenine (BA) and either 1.13, 2.25, or 4.5 M of 2,4-D. Somatic embryos developed from all three explants and generated shoots on MS medium containing high levels of BA (4.4, 8.8, or 13.2 M) combined with 0.56 M 2,4-D. The calli from the immature inflorescences exhibited the highest percentage of somatic embryogenesis and shoot regeneration. Moreover, these calli yielded the maximum number of differentiated shoots per callus. An efficient and direct shoot organogenesis protocol, without a visible, intervening callus stage, was successfully developed from shoot tip explants of both genotypes of pearl millet. Multiple shoots were induced on MS medium containing either BA or kinetin (4.4, 8.8, 17.6, or 26.4 M). The number of shoots formed per shoot tip was significantly influenced by the level of cytokinin (BA/kinetin) and genotype. Maximum rooting was induced in 1/2 strength MS with 0.8% activated charcoal. The regenerated plants were transferred to soil in pots, where they exhibited normal growth.
41432443|Paphiopedilum species are recalcitrant in tissue culture, and no explant from mature plants has been successfully mass propagated in vitro. This study was aimed at inducing shoots and regenerating plants from the flowering plants of a sequentially flowering Paphiopedilum Deperle and a single floral Paphiopedilum Armeni White. By using cross-sectioned flower buds (FBs), we found that in both species, only sections that contained the base tissue of FBs were able to produce shoots and plants. We have also found that sections of FBs between 1.5 and 3.0 cm from Paphiopedilum Deperle were able to produce shoots, but only sections of FBs > 2.5 cm from Paphiopedilum Armeni White were regenerable. Our microscopic observations revealed that the small bract at the FB base harbored a new miniature FB, which further harbored a primitive FB with dome-shaped meristem-like tissues that presumably led to the plant induction. The reiteration of this pattern resulted in a scorpioid cyme inflorescence architecture in the multifloral Paphiopedilum species, and its failure to reiterate resulted in a single flower. The induction rates were 57-75%, and all plants survived in a greenhouse. This method is potentially applicable for the micropropagation and conservation of slipper orchids.
20064886|Several rose species (Rosa rugosa, R. wichuraiana, R. setigera, R. laevigata, R. banksiae, R. roxburghii, R. odorata) and interspecific hybrids were cultured to determine the appropriate concentrations of nutrients and growth regulators for shoot proliferation and root initiation. Cultured shoot tips and lateral buds from different genotypes proliferated multiple shoots on a basal medium [Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts, vitamins, glycine, sucrose, and agar] supplemented with 0 M to 17.8 M (
4293280| A microculture method for single embryogenic cell clusters was established for several Japanese conifer species, namely Picea jezoensis, Larix leptolepis and Cryptomeria japonica. Individual small, dense cell clusters were identified and picked up by a micromanipulator and cultured in 50 l liquid medium in a 96-well culture plate. In all three species studied, a majority of the cell clusters actively proliferated within the wells. Maturation of somatic embryos was successful when the newly proliferated cell clusters were transferred to solid abscisic acid-containing medium. Thus, the small, dense cell clusters could be a useful morphological marker for cells capable of proliferation and differentiation. 
20064873|The effects of exogenously supplied proline and hydroxyproline on the potato (Solanum tuberosum) varieties L.T.8 and Desiree were studied using axillary bud cultures both in the presence and absence of 0.6% salt stress. In both varieties, the effects of exogenously supplied proline and hydroxyproline at 1.0 mM and 2.5 mM were less severe than 0.6% salt alone. At the same time, the accumulation of proline, protein, carbohydrates, sodium, and potassium were similar. However, when both the salt and proline/hydroxyproline were supplied, proline and hydroxyproline provided some measure of protection against salt stress. It is believed that increased proline levels in L.T.8 and increased carbohydrates in Desiree due to the presence of exogenously supplied proline/hydroxyproline were responsible for the additional protection against salt stress in the axillary bud cultures of these varieties.
4293400|Two procedures were tested for micropropagation of Ilex aquifolium (English holly), one in which shoots proliferated on solid medium and another one using liquid medium. Different growth regulator treatments and supports were analyzed for optimizing in vitro rooting, showing that indolebutyric acid and agar or cellulose plugs gave the best results. The survival percentage of successfully in vitro or ex vitro rooted plants did not differ significantly between the best treatments. However, the efficiency with ex vitro rooting was 80%, while for in vitro rooting, the final efficiency was 64%. The results show that a correct manipulation of Murashige's stage II of micropropagation and eliminating or decreasing stage III are useful tools to reduce the requirements of acclimatization.
4293009|A detailed qualitative and quantitative analysis of the sterol content of normal (auxin and cytokinin requiring) and habituated (auxin and cytokinin independent) sugarbeet callus (Beta vulgaris L. altissima) was made using mass spectrometry with gas chromatography. The total sterol content of the two lines did not differ significantly.
29736209|Genetic improvement of coffee, an important commercial crop, through classical breeding is slow and cumbersome. Biotechnology offers alternative strategies for generating new and improved coffee varieties, including those resistances to environmental extremes, pests, and diseases, low in caffeine, and with uniform fruit maturation. Large improvements in somatic embryogenesis, development of haploids, and scale-up of micropropagation have been accomplished in the last 5 yr. The recent identification of expressed sequence tags (EST) that are differentially expressed during the infestation of coffee plants by coffee leaf miners and the isolation and cloning of the promoter for the N-methyltransferase gene associated with caffeine production open up the possibility of producing varieties of coffee with new traits. This review provides a summary of in vitro biological advances and directions as to how they could be applied to improve the production and quality of coffee.
4293509|Embryogenic tissue from six genotypes of Pinus patula (Schiede et Deppe) was subjected to a number of treatments to improve both somatic embryo maturation and germination protocols. The use of a slightly modified 240 medium supplemented with polyethylene glycol (PEG) significantly improved both the number and quality of embryos produced, especially at the 7.5 and 10% level. Various pre-germination treatments were tested to enhance embryo germination. A partial drying treatment (PDT) at high relative humidity, lasting approximately 4 wk, gave the best germination results. Despite the beneficial effects of the PDT, embryos that had been harvested from the 240 maturation treatment containing no PEG gave the best germination responses when compared to the PEG-treated cultures. Plantlets were acclimatized ex vitrum, but success rates were low. Latent PEG effects were observed in acclimatized somatic seedlings.
25623009|The present investigation envisaged revealing the role of exogenous application of ascorbic acid in increasing resistance against NaCl stress. Shoot apices from 60-d-old, in vitro-grown plants of two commercially important cultivars of Solanum tuberosum L., cvs. Desiree and Cardinal, were inoculated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 0.5 mM ascorbic acid for 72 h as a pretreatment. Pretreated and non-pretreated shoot apices were transferred to MS medium containing different concentrations of NaCl (0-140 mM; eight treatments). Results were recorded for morphological (shoot length, shoot number, root length, root number, and number of nodes) and biochemical features (protein, peroxidase, catalase, and superoxide dismutase activities) after 60 d of salt treatment. Similarly, 60-d-old, well-proliferated callus cultures were also pretreated with ascorbic acid for 24 h and transferred to an optimized callus proliferation medium containing different concentrations of salt. Results were recorded after 60 d of salt treatment for percentage relative fresh weight growth and biochemical parameters. Salinity severely inhibited all the growth parameters in both the cultivars. Pretreatment with ascorbic acid to both salt-treated plants and callus cultures showed significant differences with respect to almost all of the growth and biochemical parameters studied. Protein content as well as catalase and superoxide dismutase activities increased significantly in both the cultivars, although peroxidase activity showed a decreasing trend in ascorbic acid-pretreated plants as well as callus cultures.
4293307|Well-developed somatic embryos were selected from a repetitively somatic embryo line derived from embryonic axes of immature zygotic embryos of English walnut 'No. 120' (Juglans regia L.) for germination and conversion studies. In germinating dishes, somatic embryos germinated into only shoots, only roots, or both shoots and roots. Without any pretreatment, 28% somatic embryos germinated, while those treated with
4293144|An efficient protocol for in vitro propagation of an aromatic and medicinal herb Ocimum basilicum L. (sweet basil) through axillary shoot proliferation from nodal explants, collected from field-grown plants, is described. High frequency bud break and maximum number of axillary shoot formation was induced in the nodal explants on Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium (MS) containing
41496518|Ten accessions belonging to the Brassica oleracea subspecies alba and rubra, and to B. oleracea var. sabauda were used in this study. Protoplasts were isolated from leaves and hypocotyls of in vitro grown plants. The influence of selected factors on the yield, viability, and mitotic activity of protoplasts immobilized in calcium alginate layers was investigated. The efficiency of protoplast isolation from hypocotyls was lower (0.70.1x10 ml) than for protoplasts isolated from leaf mesophyll tissue (20.1 x 10 ml). High (70-90%) viabilities of immobilized protoplasts were recorded, independent of the explant sources. The highest proportion of protoplasts undergoing divisions was noted for cv. Reball F1, both from mesophyll (29.82.2%) and hypocotyl (17.50.3%) tissues. Developed colonies of callus tissue were subjected to regeneration and as a result plants from six accessions were obtained.
4292996|We have previously shown (Flores and Sgrignoli, 1991) that immature embryos of Taxus brevifolia and T. X media are capable of precocious germination and can grow into seedlings in vitro. The cultural and environmental parameters for embryo germination and conversion into seedlings have been optimized and extended to T. baccata and T. cuspidata. A 14-h photoperiod improved embryo germination and growth into seedlings. A pregermination cold treatment of the seeds had a positive effect on both the onset and percentage of germination. Embryos from cold-treated seeds germinated earlier and at a higher frequency than those from control seeds. Boron was necessary for embryo germination, and levels of this micronutrient were established for optimal growth and germination of T. brevifolia and T. X media cv. Hicksii embryos. Gupta and Durzan's medium was superior to White's for embryo germination and root formation. Naphthaleneacetic acid stimulated root formation in embryo-derived seedlings. We also found that immature embryos could be induced to form callus with embryogenic potential. Taxol and related taxanes were detected in embryo-derived seedlings.
40793217|Questions often arise concerning the genetic stability of plant materials stored in liquid nitrogen for long time periods. This study examined the genetic stability of cryopreserved shoot tips of Rubus germplasm that were stored in liquid nitrogen for more than 12 yr, then rewarmed and regrown. We analyzed the genetic stability of Rubus grabowskii, two blackberry cultivars ("Hillemeyer" and 'Silvan'), and one raspberry cultivar ("Mandarin") as in vitro shoots and as field-grown plants. No morphological differences were observed in greenhouse-grown cryopreserved plants when compared to the control mother plants. In the field, cryopreserved plants appeared similar but were more vigorous than mother plants, with larger leaves, fruit, and seeds. Single sequence repeats (SSR) and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analyses were performed on shoots immediately after recovery from cryopreservation and on shoots subculrured for 7 mo before analysis. Ten SSR primers developed from "Marion" and "Meeker" microsatellite-enriched libraries amplified one to 15 aleles per locus, with an average of seven aleles and a total of 70 aleles in the four genotypes tested. No SSR polymorphisms were observed between cryopreserved shoots and the corresponding mother plants regardless of subculture. Although no polymorphisms were detected in shoots analyzed immediately after recovery from cryopres-ervation, AFLP polymorphisms were detected in three of the four Rubus genotypes after they were subculrured for 7 mo. Field-grown plants from the polymorphic shoot tips of R. grabowskii and 'Silvan' displayed the same AFLP fingerprints as their corresponding mother plants. Only longcultured in vitro shoot tips displayed polymorphisms in vitro, and they were no longer detected when the plants were grown ex vitro. The transitory nature of these polymorphisms should be carefully considered when monitoring for genetic stability.
29736194|Somatic embryogenesis from cultures of shoot apices, cotyledon and young leaves of in vitro shoots of Agave vera-cruz Mill. was studied. Embryogenic callus was obtained when explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium (1962) supplemented with L vitamins, 4.52 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or 5.37 M -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA). Somatic embryos differentiated from this embryogenic callus upon subculture to maturation/conversion medium containing cytokinin either alone or with auxin and L-glutamine. The best combination of growth regulators for development of somatic embryos was found to be 5.37 M naphthalene acetic acid plus 0.91 M zeatin and 40 g/l sucrose. The conversion frequency of somatic embryos to plantlets varied from 46-50%. Rooted plantlets were transferred directly to pots containing a soil, sand, and manure mixture without any hardening phase with 96-98% survival of the plantlets. Based on the histological observations, the potential origin of the somatic embryo is discussed.
4293498|The effect of sucrose on in vitro potato (cv. Kennebec) metabolism was evaluated. Plants were grown in three different media: Murashige and Skoog basal medium containing high nitrogen concentration with 0 or
4293834| Turfgrass, like other major crop species, is recalcitrant to manipulation in vitro. To perform efficient genetic transformation of turfgrass, it is necessary to optimize tissue culture conditions. In most reports, plant tissue culture techniques have been applied to propagate a single cultivar or several cultivars in one species of turfgrass. In this experiment, four turfgrass genera were used, namely common bermudagrass, Cynodon dactylon [L.] Pers. (California origin); red fescue, Festuca rubra L. var. rubra 'Shadow'; perennial ryegrass, Lolium perenne L. 'Barbal'; and Kentucky bluegrass, Poa pratensis L. 'Merion.' Mature seeds were surface-sterilized and cultured on basal Murashige and Skoog (MS) media supplemented with 30-250 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) for callus induction. Regeneration media consisted of MS supplemented with 5-10 M 6-benzyladenine (BA). Among the genera, Poa had the highest callus induction percentage (CIP) regardless of 2,4-D concentration, followed by Cynodon, Lolium, and Festuca, respectively. Cynodon and Lolium had the highest callus regeneration percentage (CRP) and overall regeneration rate (ORR). Festuca had a poor CIP, CRP, and ORR compared to other studied genera. Cynodon produced the highest shoot number per explant. Based on the results of the present study, MS medium supplemented with 60 M 2,4-D (for callus induction) and 7.5 M BA (for regeneration) can be used in multi-generic transformation studies with the genera used. 
20065005|A procedure for the regeneration of cacao (Theobroma cacao) plants from staminode explants via somatic embryogenesis was developed. Rapidly growing calli were induced by culturing staminode explants on a DKW salts-based primary callus growth (PCG) medium supplemented with 20 g glucose per L, 9 M 2,4-D, and thidiazuron (TDZ) at various concentrations. Calli were subcultured onto a WPM salts-based secondary callus growth medium supplemented with 20 g glucose per L, 9 M 2,4-D, and 1.4 nM kinetin. Somatic embryos were formed from embryogenic calli following transfer to a hormone-free DKW salts-based embryo development medium containing sucrose. The concentration of TDZ used in PCG medium significantly affected the rate of callus growth, the frequency of embryogenesis, and the number of somatic embryos produced from each responsive explant. A TDZ concentration of 22.7 nM was found to be the optimal concentration for effective induction of somatic embryos from various cacao genotypes. Using this procedure, we recovered somatic embryos from all 19 tested cacao genotypes, representing three major genetic group types. However, among these genotypes, a wide range of variation was observed in both the frequency of embryogenesis, which ranged from 1 to 100%, and the average number of somatic embryos produced from each responsive explant, which ranged from 2 to 46. Two types of somatic embryos were identified on the basis of their visual appearance and growth behavior. A large number of cacao plants have been regenerated from somatic embryos and established in soil in a greenhouse. Plants showed morphological and growth characteristics similar to those of seed-derived plants. The described procedure may allow for the practical use of somatic embryogenesis for clonal propagation of elite cacao clones and other applications that require the production of a large number of plants from limited source materials.
4293755|An elite aspen hybrid (Populus x canescens x P. grandidentata) was transformed with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105 that harbored a binary vector (pBI121) carrying the nptII gene under the nos promoter and tandem rolB-uidA (GUS) genes with the CaMV 35S or heat shock promoter. Among 32 independent kanamycin-resistant plants, 25 plants were confirmed by polymerase chain reaction and Southern blot analyses to contain all three genes, whereas five plants contained only nptII or/and uidA genes and two plants had both the rolB and nptII or uidA genes. Integration of the rolB gene significantly increased rooting ability of hardwood cuttings. Heat shock-rolB-transformed plants rooted at significantly higher percentage than the CaMV 35S-rolB-transformed plants. Heat shock treatment further enhanced rooting of heat shock-rolB-transformed plants. Exposure to exogenous auxin did not significantly increase the rooting percentage of transgenic hardwood cuttings, but increased the number of roots induced. This research shows great potential to improve rooting of hardwood cuttings of difficult-to-root woody plants which are commercially important to the horticultural and forestry industry. The transgenic plants with gain-of-function in hardwood-cutting rooting can facilitate research in the understanding of adventitious rooting from hardwood cuttings of recalcitrant woody plants.
20461604|This study investigated factors affecting the production of somatic embryos in Blighia sapida (ackee). Explants obtained from fully expanded leaves or cotyledons of immature zygotic embryos excised from brown (BSCZE) or green seeds (GSCZE) were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 9, 18 and 36 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 4.4 or 22.1 M benzylaminopurine (BAP) or 0.2-19.9 M thidiazuron (TDZ). Leaf explants grown on media supplemented with the different combinations of 2,4-D and BAP formed callus, but they were non-embryogenic, while explants were not responsive on TDZ-supplemented media. GSCZE explants grown in the presence of 2,4-D/BAP combinations of 9/4.4, 18/4.4 or 36/4.4 M formed non-embryogenic callus profusely, but explants gave rise to organized globular protuberances (GPs) and non-embryogenic callus on media containing TDZ, with the best concentration at 0.4 M. BSCZE explants grown on TDZ-supplemented media also formed callus, but no GPs were detected. When GPs were cultured on media containing TDZ and abscisic acid they (ABA), gave rise to the highest number of somatic embryos. The medium was also beneficial for the development of somatic embryos from the globular to cotyledonary stage.
20064898|The effect of cytokinin on growth and plant regeneration of thalamus-derived calluses of Ranunculus asiaticus L. has been investigated with various concentrations of 6-benzyladenine and 6-furfurylaminopurine (kinetin), in a medium containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid levels, which was decreased to 0 over three subcultures. cytokinins, although not essential for initiating callus production, improved subsequent callus growth and plant regeneration. No somatic embryogenesis was observed on calluses grown on media lacking cytokinins or containing only kinetin. Calluses manifested embryogenesis on media containing 6-benzyladenine plus kinetin or only 6-benzyladenine. Nondifferentiating callus was characterized by a high content of phenolic polymers and an elevated peroxidase and polyphenol oxidase activity in comparison with differentiating callus. Differences in simple phenol concentrations were observed in the two kinds of callus.
41496441|Azadirachtin, a well-known biopesticide, is a secondary metabolite extracted from the seeds o Azadirachta indica. In the present study, azadirachtin was produced in hairy roots of A. indica, generated by Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated transformation of leaf explants. Liquid cultures of A. indica hairy roots were developed with a liquid-to-flask volume ratio of 0.15. The kinetics of growth and azadirachtin production were established in a basal plant growth medium containing MS medium major and minor salts, Gamborg's medium vitamins, and 30 g1 sucrose. The highest azadirachtin accumulation in the hairy roots (up to 3.3 mg g) and azadirachtin production (~ 44 mg 1) was obtained on Day 25 of the growth cycle, with a biomass production of 13.3 g1 dry weight. To enhance the production of azadirachtin, a Plackett-Burman experimental design protocol was used to identify key medium nutrients and concentrations to support high root biomass production and azadirachtin accumulation in hairy roots. The optimal nutrients and concentrations were as follows: 40 g1 sucrose, 0.19 g1 potassium dihydrogen phosphate, 3.1 g1 potassium nitrate, and 0.41 g1 magnesium sulfate. Concentrations were determined by a central composite design protocol and verified in shake-flask cultivation. The optimized medium composition yielded a root biomass production of 14.2 g1 and azadirachtin accumulation of 5.2 mg g which was equivalent to an overall azadirachtin production of 73.84 mg 1 , 68% more than that obtained under non-optimized conditions.
4293443|An efficient plant regeneration system employing cotyledons, hypocotyls, petioles and leaves as explants and characterized by continuous and prolific production of somatic embryos, has been developed with Medicago arborea ssp. arborea. The optimal somatic embryogenic response was obtained using a two-step protocol, where explants were incubated under a 16 h photoperiod for 2 mo. on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxy-acetic acid (2,4-D;
4293677|Germination of soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill] somatic embryos and conversion to whole plants are generally low. This study was conducted to investigate the effects of proliferation, maturation, and desiccation methods on conversion of soybean somatic embryos to plants. Soybean cv. Jack somatic embryos, proliferated on a solid medium containing
42568715|Selection genes are routinely used in plant genetic transformation protocols to ensure the survival of transformed cells by limiting the regeneration of non-transgenic cells. In order to find alternatives to the use of antibiotics as selection agents, we followed a targeted approach utilizing a plant gene, encoding a mutant form of the enzyme acetolactate synthase, to convey resistance to herbicides. The sensitivity of sugarcane callus (Saccharum spp. hybrids, cv. NCo310) to a number of herbicides from the sulfonylurea and imidazolinone classes was tested. Callus growth was most affected by sulfonylurea herbicides, particularly 3.6 g/l chlorsulfuron. Herbicide-resistant transgenic sugarcane plants containing mutant forms of a tobacco acetolactate synthase (als) gene were obtained following biolistic transformation. Post-bombardment, putative transgenic callus was selectively proliferated on MS medium containing 3 mg/1 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 20 g/1 sucrose, 0.5 g/1 casein, and 3.6 g/l chlorsulfuron. Plant regeneration and rooting was done on MS medium lacking 2,4-D under similar selection conditions. Thirty vigorously growing putative transgenic plants were successfully ex v/Yro-acclimatized and established under glasshouse conditions. Glasshouse spraying of putative transgenic plants with 100 mg/1 chlorsulfuron dramatically decreased the amount of non-transgenic plants that had escaped the in vitro selection regime. PCR analysis showed that six surviving plants were a/s-positive and that five of these expressed the mutant als gene. This report is the first to describe a selection system for sugarcane transformation that uses a selectable marker gene of plant origin targeted by a sulfonylurea herbicide.
4293701| The behavior of four coffee (Coffea canephora cv. Robusta) clones was evaluated in this work to define the conditions that would allow somatic embryogenesis to be induced at different seasons of the year. The objective was to have an adaptive methodology for in vitro propagation of these four coffee clones that were selected for their agronomic characteristics. The use of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and Picloram in the culture medium at concentrations between 2.07 and 4.14 M resulted in high-frequency somatic embryogenesis when leaves were collected between April and June for genotype C-R, and between April and July for M-229. Callus from 28 to 35 d of induction showed better results throughout the whole regeneration process, particularly in liquid medium. There was a clear difference in the behavior of the clones evaluated. 
25623023|A 238 mulberry germplasm accession collection from diverse regions maintained under tropical conditions was identified from an ex situ field gene bank. The purpose was to prioritize the in vitro conservation and cryopreservation to develop long-term biodiversity conservation for ensuring sustainable utilization of these valuable resources. Reliable cryo techniques using desiccation and slow freezing of winter-dormant buds were used. Storage potential of bud grafts of different Morus species at - 1.5C for 90 d indicated species-specific variation, and most of the wild species were found sensitive. In vitro regeneration and cryopreservation (-196C) protocols using differentiated bud meristems, like axillary winter-dormant buds, were worked out for a wide range of landraces, wild, and cultivated varieties of Morus. Buds maintained under subtropical location are also amenable for cryopreservation. Successful cryopreservation of winter-dormant buds belonging to Morus indica, Morus alba, Morus latifolia, Morus cathayana, Morus laevigata, Morus nigra, Morus australis, Morus bombycis, Morus sinensis, Morus multicaulis, and Morus rotundiloba was achieved. Among wild species, Morus tiliaefolia and Morus serrata showed moderate recovery after cryopreservation. Survival rates did not alter after 3 yr of cryopreservation. Inter-simple sequence repeat markers were used to ascertain the genetic stability of cryopreserved mulberry germplasm accessions, which showed no difference detected among the plantlets regenerated from frozen apices in comparison to the nonfrozen material.
40663783|Grasses from the genus Miscanthus have several characteristics that make them very favourable crops for efficient, low input, multifunctional and environmentally friendly biomass production. This study is aimed to improve a polyploidisation method to effectively induce polyploids in Miscanthus sinensis and Miscanthus x giganteus. Colchicine was applied for 2, 4 or 7 d in micropropagation systems using inflorescence segments at two different points: during callus induction (313 and 626 M colchicine) and during shoot regeneration from callus (313 M colchicine). Among the tested combinations, the most effective (up to 40%) was the 4-d colchicine treatment of a shoot-forming callus cultured 4 d before the experiment on regeneration medium under light conditions. In vitro colchicine treatment during callus induction and during shoot regeneration from callus resulted in no chimeric polyploids as well as a very low number of albinos (2.5%). Additionally, some combinations using colchicine did not significantly reduce the rates of micropropagation effectiveness. The obtained material is promising for the creation of new high-biomass-yielding forms in the Miscanthus genus. In all genotypes tested, chromosome doubling significantly increased pollen stainability. According to preliminary results, induced tetraploids are fertile and useful in hybrid production. Leaves of polyploid forms of two genotypes demonstrated significantly greater width in comparison to the controls.
24596337|Cryopreservation can be a stable, long-term method of germplasm conservation, but successful application can be challenging for tropical material. To optimize survival and re-growth from cryopreserved tissues derived from protocorm-like bodies (PLBs) of hybrid Cymbidium Twilight Moon 'Day Light', the effects of explant type (intact PLBs, half-PLBs, or PLB longitudinal thin cell layers) and various explant treatments were studied. Encapsulation in alginate beads was essential, and intact PLBs were best for cryopreservation, based on survival and ability to form neo-PLBs and/or percentage re-growth. Osmotic hydration of intact PLBs in 2% sucrose for 24 h increased neo-PLB formation and re-growth, with the best responses seen when PLBs were excised from alginate beads prior to re-growth after cryopreservation. Both non-transgenic and transgenic PLBs were amenable to cryopreservation for up to 1 year using these methods. This optimized protocol will improve the viability of hybrid Cymbidium germplasm after long-term cryopreservation.
4293578|A plant hormone is not, in the classic animal sense, a chemical synthesized in one organ, transported to a second organ to exert a chemical action to control a physiological event. Any phytohormone can be synthesized everywhere and can influence different growth and development processes at different places. The concept of physiological activity under hormonal control cannot be dissociated from changes in concentrations at the site of action, from spatial differences and changes in the tissue's sensitivity to the compound, from its transport and its metabolism, from balances and interactions with the other phytohormones, or in their metabolic relationships, and in their signaling pathways as well. Secondary messengers are also involved. Hormonal involvement in physiological processes can appear through several distinct manifestations (as environmental sensors, homeostatic regulators and spatio-temporal synchronizers, resource allocators, biotime adjusters, etc.), dependent on or integrated with the primary biochemical pathways. The time has also passed for the hypothesized 'specific' developmental hormones, rhizocaline, caulocaline, and florigen: root, stem, and flower formation result from a sequential control of specific events at the right places through a coordinated control by electrical signals, the known phytohormones and nonspecific molecules of primary and secondary metabolism, and involve both cytoplasmic and apoplastic compartments. These contemporary views are examined in this review.
40663781|Hydrogen peroxide (HO), an active oxygen species, is widely generated in many biological systems and mediates various physiological and biochemical processes in plants. In the present study, we present a signaling network involving HO, nitric oxide (NO), calcium (Ca), cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), and the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade during adventitious rooting in mung bean seedlings. Both exogenous HO and the NO donor sodium nitroprussiate were capable of promoting the formation and development of adventitious roots. HO and NO signaling pathways were elicited in parallel in auxin-induced adventitious rooting. Cytosolic Ca was required for adventitious rooting, and Ca served as a downstream component of HO, as well as cGMP or signaling cascades. cGMP and depend on auxin responses in adventitious root signaling processes.
4293704| A micropropagation method for Orthosiphon stamineus, using stem nodal segments, has been developed. The highest number of regenerated shoots was obtained on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 6.7 M benzyladenine with the formation of an average of 6.1 shoots per explant over a period of 4wk. The number of shoots increased with longer culture duration on proliferation medium. Multiple shoots which were maintained on the proliferation medium for 6 wk had the highest proliferation rate. Separation of multiple shoots and culturing in larger flasks significantly promoted the growth and formation of plantlets. All the in vitro plantlets survived when transferred to the field and showed no significant morphological differences from the mother plants. 
4293661|Plantlets of Capsicum annuum L. cv. Sweet Banana regenerated via somatic embryogenesis from immature zygotic embryos were capable of producing flower, fruit, and seed when cultured in small tissue culture containers. In vitro floral buds were first formed on plantlets that grew on plantlet development medium [agar-gelled Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium containing
20541034|The energy in cellulosic biomass largely resides in plant cell walls. Cellulosic biomass is more difficult than starch to break down into sugars because of the presence of lignin and the complex structure of cell walls. Transgenic down-regulation of major lignin genes led to reduced lignin content, increased dry matter degradability, and improved accessibility of cellulases for cellulose degradation. This review provides background information on lignin biosynthesis and focuses on genetic manipulation of lignin genes in important monocot species as well as the dicot potential biofuel crop alfalfa. Reduction of lignin in biofuel crops by genetic engineering is likely one of the most effective ways of reducing costs associated with pretreatment and hydrolysis of cellulosic feedstocks, although some potential fitness issues should also be addressed.
4293500| A protoplast fusion experiment was carried out aiming to obtain somatic hybrid plants of transgenic Nicotiana tabacum (bar) (+) N. rotundifolia (npt II). The bialaphos resistance marker (bar) was introduced into N. tabacum via Agrobacterium tumefaciens using vector pGV1500 carrying the bar gene phosphinothricin acetyltransferase. N. rotundifolia (npt II) was recovered after direct gene transformation of protoplasts by the pGP6 plasmid carrying the npt II gene for neomycin phosphotransferase. Both plasmids possessed 35S CaMV promotors. Hybrid selection was based on dual bialaphoskanamycin resistance. Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis of regenerated plants showed the presence of species-specific bands for both parents, which confirmed their hybrid nature. N. tabacum (bar) (+) N. rotundifolia (npt II) hybrids exhibited a great diversity in morphology. Fertile hybrids which possessed N. tabacum or N. rotundifolia morphology were recovered. Flow cytometric analysis revealed that the N. tabacum- and TV. rotundifolia-like hybrids had nuclear DNA contents near that of N. tabacum (9.40  0.24 pg) or N. rotundifolia (5.29  0.36 pg), respectively, and were highly asymmetric. Other hybrids combined traits from the two species at various levels - N. tabacum habit or branched, similar to N. rotundifolia. Their leaves varied in shape. The flowers of the hybrid plants were of N. tabacum or N. rotundifolia type, or had N. rotundifolia dimensions, pink with N. tabacum corolla or white with curly fused petals. All were self-sterile or male sterile. The nuclear DNA content varied from 8.90  0.30 to 19.57  0.33 pg. The data from the morphological and cytological analysis provided evidence that parental chromosome elimination in the hybrid clones was spontaneous and not species-specific and that diploidization of the tobacco genome might have occurred in some clones during in vitro culture. This reflects the genomic incompatibility between the two species. 
4293779|With the objective of using microtubers for conservation of potato germplasm, the main effects of genotype, abscisic acid (ABA), and sucrose level, and of their interactions on biomass production, microtuberization, microtuber dormancy, and dry matter content, were studied. ABA decreased both microtuber production and microtuber dormancy, whereas higher concentrations (
4293235|To facilitate the development of transgenic grapevines that are resistant to grapevine fanleaf virus (GFLV), grapevine leafroll-associated closterovirus (GLRaV-3) and crown gall diseases, we developed a rapid system for regenerating root-stocks: Couderc 3309, Vitis riparia 'Gloire de Montpellier', Teleki 5C, Millardet et De Grasset 101-14, and 110 Richter via somatic embryogenesis. Embryo culture and grape regeneration were accomplished with four media. Embryogenic calluses from anthers were induced in the initiation medium [MS basic medium containing 20 g sucrose per L, 1.1 mg 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) per L, 0.2 mg
4293863|A protocol for micropropagation of plants via axillary bud proliferation from nodal explants of Terminalia bellirica Roxb. seedlings has been established. Explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium with different concentrations of 6-benzyladenine (BA; 4.4, 8.9, 13.3, 17.8, or
20461648|Agapanthus (Agapanthus praecox ssp. orientalis), a liliaceous perennial, is cultivated as an ornamental plant because of its beautiful, blue-violet to white flowers. We have previously produced transgenic plants containing the -glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene under the control of cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter in an experimental strain of Agapanthus via Agrobacterium-mediated genetic transformation. These transgenic plants have been cultivated for 5 yr after transplantation to pots. In the present study, we carried out morphological characterization, and examination of the ploidy level, pollen fertility and stability of GUS gene expression in 12 transgenic plants derived from five independent lines at the flowering stage. Flow cytometry (FCM) analysis indicated that transgenic plants of four lines kept the diploid level, but those of the remaining one line were tetraploid. For all of the 12 transgenic plants, some morphological variations were observed both in vegetative and floral organs such as decreased number of leaves per inflorescence, smaller leaves, shorter inflorescence stalks, decreased number of florets per inflorescence and smaller florets. Pollen fertility of all the transgenic plants was below 5% as determined by acetocarmine staining. All the 12 transgenic plants showed stable expression of the GUS gene in leaves, roots, tepals, pistils, and stamens, as indicated by histochemical GUS assay, fluorometric GUS assay, and/or real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis. No apparent GUS gene silencing was observed in transgenic agapanthus plants even after 5 yr of cultivation.
20461612|In vitro studies related to somatic embryogenesis and organogenesis were performed in different cultivars of cotton. Gossypium hirsutum cultivars SH-131, LH-900, Hybrid H8, Khandwa-2, and Gossypium arboreum cultivars BD-1, BD-6, Sarvottam, and Jawahar Tapti were screened for their ability to regenerate in vitro. Cotyledonary leaves and hypocotyls were used as explants. Vigorous callusing was observed in G. arboreum cultivars. Globular somatic embryos were formed in BD-1, BD-6, Sarvottam, Jawahar Tapti, SH-131, and LH-900. Heart-shaped and torpedo stages were also observed. Embryos of BD-1 and BD-6 germinated and formed distinct shoot and root poles. 2-Isopentenyladenine (2iP) was effective in the induction of somatic embryos. Hybrid H8 and Khandwa-2 regenerated by directly forming shoots when cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 6-benzyladenine and formed roots on hormone-free MS medium.
42568883|Auxinic herbicides are widely used in agriculture to selectively control broadleaf weeds. Prolonged use of auxinic herbicides has resulted in the evolution of resistance to these herbicides in some biotypes of Brassica kaber (wild mustard), a common weed in agricultural crops. In this study, auxinic herbicide resistance from B. kaber was transferred to Brassica juncea and Brassica rapa, two commercially important Brassica crops, by traditional breeding coupled with in vitro embryo rescue. A high frequency of embryo regeneration and hybrid plant establishment was achieved. Transfer of auxinic herbicide resistance from B. kaber to the hybrids was assessed by whole-plant screening of hybrids with dicamba, a widely used auxinic herbicide. Furthermore, the hybrids were tested for fertility (both pollen and pistil) and their ability to produce backcross progeny. The auxinic herbicide-resistant trait was introgressed into B. juncea by backcross breeding. DNA ploidy of the hybrids as well as of the backcross progeny was estimated by flow cytometry. Creation of auxinic herbicide-resistant Brassica crops by nontransgenic approaches should facilitate effective weed control, encourage less tillage, provide herbicide rotation options, minimize occurrence of herbicide resistance, and increase acceptance of these crops.
20540998|Induction of high-frequency shoot regeneration using nodal segments containing axillary buds from a 1-yr-old mother plants of Cannabis sativa was achieved on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 0.05-5.0 M thidiazuron. The quality and quantity of regenerants were better with thidiazuron (0.5 M thidiazuron) than with benzyladenine or kinetin. Adding 7.0 M of gibberellic acid into a medium containing 0.5 M thidiazuron slightly increased shoot growth. Elongated shoots when transferred to half-strength MS medium supplemented with 500 mg l activated charcoal and 2.5 M indole-3-butyric acid resulted in 95% rooting. The rooted plants were successfully acclimatized in soil. Following acclimatization, growth performance of 4-mo-old in vitro propagated plants was compared with ex vitro vegetatively grown plants of the same age. The photosynthesis and transpiration characteristics were studied under different light levels (0, 500, 1,000, 1,500, or 2,000 mol m s). An increase in photosynthesis was observed with increase in the light intensity up to 1,500 mol m s and then decreased subsequently at higher light levels in both types of plants. However, the increase was more pronounced at lower light intensities below 500 mol m s. Stomatal conductance and transpiration increased with light intensity up to highest level (2000 mol m s) tested. Intercellular CO concentration (
20461623|This work describes an efficient micropropagation protocol of Lippia filifolia. Nodal segments cultivation in MS medium supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine (4.5 M)/-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA; 54 nM) induced multiple shoots (in average 27 shoots per explant). Elongated shoots were rooted with NAA (0.11 M) and they maintained ploidy level of the in vitro produced explants. The basic chromosome number were 2n = 2x = 24. Regenerated rooted shoots were successfully acclimatized under shading house conditions. This is the first report involving the establishment of a protocol for shoot multiplication and rooting for endangered L. filifolia, contributing for germplasm preservation of this species.
4293905|It is well known that glutathione is a ubiquitous and multifunctional compound which is important in maintaining cellular redox homeostasis. The balance between the reduced (GSH) and oxidized (GSSG) forms of this tripeptide plays a fundamental role in basic physiological and metabolic processes in plants. Recently, a remarkable amount of evidence has suggested that the role of glutathione within the plant system extends beyond the basic metabolic functions and that it may ultimately act as a modulator of plant development and morphogenesis. Therefore, it is not surprising that research has begun to focus on using the glutathione redox pair system for improving regeneration of cultured cells. One of the major themes that has emerged from in vitro studies is that GSH promotes cell proliferation, while GSSG promotes organized development. Thus, in vitro manipulation of this redox compound within the culture medium could lead to an enhancement of plant regeneration.
4293852|Guar gum, a galactomannan derived from the endosperms of Cyamopsis tetragonoloba, has been successfully used as a sole gelling agent for plant tissue culture media. Its suitability as a gelling agent was demonstrated by using guar gumgelled media for in vitro seed germination of Linum usitatissimum and Brassica juncea, in vitro axillary shoot proliferation in nodal explants of Crataeva nurvala, rooting of regenerated shoots of the same, in vitro androgenesis in anther cultures of Nicotiana tabacum, and somatic embryogenesis in callus cultures of Calliandra tweedii. The media used for these were gelled with either guar gum (2, 3, or 4%) or agar (0.9%). Guar gum-gelled media, like agar media, supported all these morphogenic responses. Rather, axillary shoot proliferation, rhizogenic and embryogenic responses were better on guar gum-gelled media than on agar media.
20461616|A protocol of somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration from petiole segments of Parthenocissus tricuspidata Planch. has been developed. Embryogenic tissue was induced on B5 (Gamborg) basal medium supplemented with 2.25-9.0 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 500 mg l casein hydrolysate (CH), and 0.1 g l activated charcoal. Somatic embryos were induced on B5 medium containing various concentrations of benzyladenine (BA) (4.44, 6.66, and 8.88 M) and -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) (0, 0.54, and 1.61 M) plus 500 mg l CH. Ninety percent of normal somatic embryos were converted into plantlets directly on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium free of plant growth regulators. Shoots could be induced from abnormal somatic embryos on MS medium containing 4.44 M BA, 0.05 M NAA, and 500 mg l CH. Genotypic differences were found in the process of somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration. Histological analysis confirmed the process of somatic embryogenesis. Regenerated plantlets with well-developed roots were successfully acclimatized in greenhouse and all plants showed normal morphological characteristics.
4293944|Ananas comosus (L.) Merr. var. Smooth Cayenne plants when grown in vitro under different temperature regimes developed as CAM or as C
20461736|This study describes a reliable protocol for callus induction and rapid mass propagation of the ecologically important plant, Zygophyllum xanthoxylon (Bunge) Maxim. The optimum callus induction medium was Murashige and Skoog (MS) supplemented with 4.4 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP) and 2.7 M -naphthalene-acetic acid (NAA), on which the callus induction frequencies from different seedling explants were all 100%. However, seedling-derived callus did not form regenerated shoots. In order to achieve shoot multiplication, shoots were developed from cultured plumules, at an average of 3.1 shoots per explant, and the regenerated shoot tips were further multiplied by subculture. The best shoot multiplication from shoot tips was achieved on MS supplemented with 5.4 M NAA and 22.2 M BAP after 40 d of culture. Seventy-three percent of regenerated shoots formed roots when cultured on MS supplemented with 8.6 M IAA after 4 wk of culture. The plants that acclimatized successfully in sand flourished the following year, with normal morphology and growth characteristics.
4293413|The influence of carbon sources and polyethylene glycol combined with 0.45 and 0.9% (w/v) of gellan gum on the maturation of maritime pine somatic embryos was tested. The effect of the carbon source and polyethylene glycol varied widely between lines. One out of the five lines tested showed a striking response to polyethylene glycol (PEG) treatment; the addition of this osmoticum limited the embryonal-suspensor mass (ESM) proliferation while it enhanced the maturation rate. Conversely, the ESM proliferation was stimulated by PEG in the other lines without subsequent improvement of the maturation rate. The use of a high concentration of gellan gum (0.9%) improved the maturation of the five ESM lines. It was concluded that the most efficient culture medium to recover cotyledonary embryos from all lines is one supplemented with sucrose at 6% (w/v) and gellan gum at 0.9% (w/v) without PEG. The determining factor in the maturation of maritime pine somatic embryos is the genotype and/or the quality of ESM. The possible relationship between maturation performances and ESM morphology, particularly the suspensor organization, is discussed.
4292932| The frequency and quality of embryogenic response from cotyledons of immature zygotic soybean embryos varied with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) concentration in the culture medium. The frequency of variants among progeny of regenerated plants decreased with an increase of 2,4-D concentration. Teratogenic effects on embryo morphology and development were greatest at 22.5 M 2,4-D and decreased with increasing 2,4-D. At the lowest 2,4-D concentration tested, 22.5 M, morphologically abnormal, cotyledonary-stage somatic embryos were produced. Ten percent or less of these embryos converted to plants. Over the nine genotypes tested, 40% of the families derived from plants regenerated under a low 2,4-D concentration manifested heritable variation. In contrast, embryogeny was suppressed at the globular stage by the highest 2,4-D concentration tested, 200 M. Eighty to one-hundred percent of the embryos organized under this latter 2,4-D level converted to plants. Only 3% of the families from the progeny of plants regenerated under a high 2,4-D concentration exhibited heritable variation. 
4293044|Anthocyanin production of two lines of Vitis vinifera cell cultures, i.e., 5.4 and 13.1, which were obtained from the same starting material after 20 and 37 mo. of clonal selection, respectively, was investigated. Cell suspension cultures of lines 5.4 and 13.1 maintained an anthocyanin content of
20461538|Valeriana glechomifolia is an endemic species of southern Brazil, capable of accumulating, in all of its organs, the terpene derivatives known as valepotriates, the presumed sedative components of the roots of pharmaceutically used species of Valeriana. In vitro cultures of the plant were established and the accumulation of acevaltrate, didrovaltrate, and valtrate in callus, cell suspension, and untransformed root cultures was studied. Leaves of in natura plants and roots of micropropagated plantlets were used as the explants for callus induction and root culture establishment, respectively, on Gamborg B5 basal medium supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) alone or with kinetin (KIN). Culture growth and secondary metabolite yields were enhanced with 2,4-D (4.52 M) and KIN (0.93 M). Maximum valepotriate contents, quantified by HPLC, of acevaltrate (ACE) 2.6 mg g DW, valtrate (VAL) 10.2 mg g DW, and didrovaltrate (DID) 2.9 mg g DW were observed in root cultures after 7-8 wk of culture.
4293577|Plant biotechnology - especially in vitro regeneration and cell biology, DNA manipulation and biochemical engineering - is already changing the agricultural scene in three major areas: control of plant growth, protecting plants against biotic stress, and production of specialty foods, biochemicals and pharmaceuticals. Plant biotechnology faces several major challenges in the coming decades: alleviating the hazards of abiotic stress (especially salinity, drought, and extreme temperatures), improving pest control, maintenance and improvement of the environment, improvement of food quality and design of 'specialty food' using biochemical engineering, and production of biomaterials. Two parallel research approaches will most likely exist simultaneously in the near future: the transgenic approach (expression of unique genes and specific promoters and transcription factors), and the non-transgenic approach (genomics-assisted gene discovery, marker-assisted selection, efficient mutations, and clonal agriculture). Drought and salinity are the most serious threats to agriculture and to the environment in many parts of the world. Key molecular factors that are being used for genetic engineering of stress-tolerant plants include: over-expression of specific transcription factors, characterization of dehydrin proteins, over-production of osmoprotectants, expression of water channel proteins and ion transporters, expression and characterization of molecular chaperones, including a novel boiling-stable homo-oligomeric SP1 protein. Although molecular breeding is routine in agriculture, forest-tree species have been left far behind. However, the increasing demand for wood and its products and the reduction of available harvestable forests has recently led to the introduction of several molecular and biotechnological tools into forest-tree research and improvement. Among these are in vitro propagation, the identification of molecular markers, and genetic engineering for specific traits. Achievements today in plant biotechnology have already surpassed all previous expectations. The full realization and impact of the new developments depend not only on continued successful and innovative research and development activities, but also on a favorable regulatory climate and public acceptance. Plant scientists now have a central role in society.
20541017|Filipendula ulmaria (L.) Maxim (meadowsweet) is a medicinal plant that is claimed to have several biological activities, including anti-tumor, anti-carcinogenic, anti-oxidant, anti-coagulant, anti-ulcerogenic, anti-microbial, anti-arthritic, and immunomodulatory properties. This report describes, for the first time, an efficient plant regeneration system for F. ulmaria via adventitious shoot development from leaf, petiole, and root explants cultured on Murashige and Skoog's minimal organics medium containing different concentrations of thidiazuron (TDZ), benzyladenine, and kinetin either alone or in combination with different auxins. Relatively extensive/prolific shoot regeneration was observed in all three explant types with TDZ in combination with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Gibberellic acid (GA), TDZ, and IAA combinations were also tested. The best shoot proliferation was observed among root explants cultured on media supplemented with 0.45 M TDZ+2.85 M IAA+1.44 M GA. Regenerated shoots were transferred to rooting media containing different concentrations of either IAA, indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), naphthalene acetic acid, or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Most shoots developed roots on medium with 2.46 M IBA. Rooted explants were transferred to vermiculite in Magenta containers for a 2-wk acclimatization period and then finally to plastic pots containing potting soil. The plantlets in soil were kept in growth chambers for 2 wk before transferring to greenhouse conditions.
20064973|Proliferation of meristematic clusters of several plants in an inexpensive airlift bioreactor system, consisting of a disposable presterilized light transmittable plastic film vessel is described. The optimal shape, size, and structural function of the disposable plastic bioreactor are based on the bubble column and airlift glass bioreactors. The disposable bioreactors are designed in a conical configuration with a single inoculation and harvest port and multiple use dispensing and mixing accessories. Shearing damage and foaming problems known to exist in bioreactors due to the plant's rigid cell wall and size were greatly reduced in the disposable plastic bioreactors. The disposable bioreactors were used for propagule proliferation and growth, using meristem and bud clusters of potato, fern, banana, and gladiolus. The clusters' biomass increased five-to eightfold over a period of 26-30 d, depending on the species. The clusters were separated mechanically by a chopper made of a grid of knives. The chopped propagules were inoculated to agar medium for further growth and developed into transplantable plants. In the case of gladiolus and potato, corms and tubers developed in a sucrose-elevated storage organ induction medium, respectively, after the initial formation of small shoots. The plantlets and storage organs were transplanted to an acclimation greenhouse and continued to grow with a 95-100% survival, depending on the species. Plant development was followed for a period of 16 wk in fern and 12-14 wk in potato, banana, and gladiolus and normal shoot and leaf growth was observed. The feasibility of large-scale liquid cultures for plant micropropagation is discussed.
29736214|Somatic embryogenesis was achieved from leaves of Agave tequilana Weber cultivar azul utilizing MS medium supplemented with L2 vitamins and the addition of cytokinins: 6-benzylaminopurine (BA), 1-phenyl-3(1,2,3,-thiadiazol-5-yl)urea (TDZ), 6-(--dimethylamino)purine (2ip) and 6-furfurylaminopurine (KIN), combined with the auxin 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Differences among the six genotypes studied with regard to their embryogenic response in culture were found. Embryos produced by genotype S3 under a hormone regime of high cytokinin (44.4 to 66.6 M BA) compared to auxin (4.5 M 2,4-D) contained chlorophyll, whereas those produced when auxin was high compared to cytokinin (9.0 and 13.6 M 2,4-D and 1.3 and 4.0 M BA, respectively) were whitish and morphologically similar to their zygotic counterparts. Somatic embryos matured and germinated after transferring the embryogenic calli to maturation and germination medium without growth regulators and enriched with organic nitrogen. Microscopic observations demonstrated a unicellular origin for production of indirect somatic embryos.
40663788|The aim of this study was to investigate both a mass in vitro propagation system and the -ecdysone content in roots and aerial parts of Pfaffia glomerata and Pfaffia tuberosa. Nodal segments of two genotypes (BRA and JB-UFSM) of P. glomerata, originated from aseptically grown plants, were cultivated on hormone-free Murashige and Skoog medium. For the proliferation of P. tuberosa shoots, nodal segments, originated from aseptically grown plants, were either cultivated on hormone-free Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium or were supplemented with 1.0 M thidiazuron (TDZ); the elongation and rooting of these plants were carried out on MS medium without TDZ. Plantlets of both species were acclimatized and transferred to field conditions. The -ecdysone content in the plants was determined by high performance liquid chromatography. The BRA genotype showed a greater in vitro proliferation rate and -ecdysone content than that of the JB-UFSM genotype. The culture of nodal segments of P. tuberosa on medium with 1.0 M TDZ with subsequent subcultivation of shoots on hormone-free medium was shown to be a suitable method for micropropagation due to the high multiplication rate and good plant development. Both species showed good adaptation to ex vitro conditions. The -ecdysone content in micropropagated P. tuberosa was similar to that found in field-grown plants. For both species, the aerial parts accumulated higher -ecdysone content than roots. These results reveal that micropropagation is a successful, alternative method for rapid plant multiplication of both species of Brazilian ginseng. Furthermore, this study demonstrates that these two species have a potential for cultivation that is associated with high -ecdysone production.
40793223|The present work describes the plant regeneration via somatic embryogenesis in two wild cotton species belonging to G genome: Gossypium nelsonii Fryx and Gossypium australe F Muell. The role of plant hormones and carbohydrates was also evaluated for somatic embryogenesis and somatic embryo development. Normal plants were obtained from G. nelsonii Fryx; abnormal plants and somatic embryos were obtained from G. australe F Muell. The best medium for callus induction for these G genome wild cotton species was MSB 5 supplemented with 0.1 mg L KT and 0.1 mg L 2,4-D. For embryognie callus proliferation, the best medium used was MSB 5 supplemented with 0.2 mg L KT and 0.5 mg L IBA. The medium MSB 5 supplemented with 0.15 mg L KT and 0.5 mg L NAA was used successfully for root initiation and plant growth. In addition, adding CuSO and AgNO in the callus-inducing and proliferation medium resulted in a number of somatic embryos. Glucose and maltose, the carbon sources in somatic culture, were used for callus induction, but maltose worked even better than glucose for proliferation of embryognie callus and development of somatic embryos.
4293742| Baloskion tetraphyllum is a member of the Restionaceae and is an important species for the rehabilitation of disused mine sites and wetland areas, and is also highly prized as a cut flower. Its use for restoration of disturbed land is, however, severely limited, due to very poor propagation success by conventional methods. A study was conducted to evaluate the potential of somatic embryogenesis for the large-scale propagation of this species. A variety of auxins (at different concentrations) were investigated for their efficacy in stimulating somatic embryogenesis. Somatic embryos were successfully induced from excised coleoptiles of B. tetraphyllum on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (1/2MS) medium supplemented with 1 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic (2,4-D). To scale up the production, proliferation of secondary somatic embryos was achieved using primary somatic embryos as the tissue source on 1/2MS + 1 M 2,4-D resulting in a 30-fold increase in somatic embryo numbers. Almost all the somatic embryos developed into plants and were established ex vitro. The other auxins investigated, including p-chlorophenoxyacetic acid, indole-3-acetic acid, -naphthaleneacetic acid, and picloram, were not as effective as 2,4-D. The age of the explant material significantly influenced somatic embryogenesis with white, young coleoptiles (5-7d) producing 50% more somatic embryos than green, more mature (8-14 d) coleoptiles. The protocol developed for B. tetraphyllum has the potential to be commercially viable, with an estimated 22 000 somatic embryos produced from 1 g of plant material. This research may also have a positive impact on the propagation of other important Restionaceae species. 
20461629|Micropropagation is a technique to ensure a constant and uniform source of medicinal plants. In this report, we describe the micropropagation of Lepidium virginicum L. (Brassicaceae), a wild plant used as an antiamoebic in traditional Mexican medicine. In vitro-germinated seeds were cultured in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium to obtain pathogen-free cotyledons, hypocotyls, and apical bud (AB) explants. For induction of morphogenesis, the effect of cytokinins, benzyladenine (BA) and kinetin (KN), combined with auxin, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) was evaluated. The best rate of shoot proliferation was induced 15 d after culture on MS mineral medium supplemented with IAA:KN (0.57:13.94 M) from AB explants. Maximum shoot elongation was achieved without plant growth regulators. The effect of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) (14.76 M) was evaluated for in vitro root induction; 60 d after culture all the shoots had developed roots. All rooted plants were successfully transferred to pots and 100% acclimatized in ex vitro conditions. The methanol extracts from the micropropagated active explants of L. virginicum showed and IC antiprotozoal value between 141.90 and 268.53 g ml.
4293561|An efficient regeneration and transformation system was developed for two elite aspen hybrid clones (Populus canescens x P. grandidentada and P. tremuloides x P. davidiana). Callus was induced from in vitro leaf explants on modified Murashige and Skoog medium (MSA) and woody plant medium (WPM) containing four different combinations of cytokinins and auxins. Callus tissues regenerated into shoots on WPM medium supplemented with
23016595|Seed responses to temperature are often essential to the study of germination ecology, but the ecological role of temperature in orchid seed germination remains uncertain. The response of orchid seeds to cold stratification have been studied, but the exact physiological role remains unclear. No studies exist that compare the effects of either cold stratification or temperature on germination among distant populations of the same species. In two separate experiments, the role of temperature (25, 22/11, 27/15, 29/ 19, 33/24C) and chilling at 10C on in vitro seed germination were investigated using distant populations of Calopogon tuberosus var. tuberosus. Cooler temperatures promoted germination of Michigan seeds; warmer temperatures promoted germination of South Carolina and north central Florida seeds. South Florida seed germination was highest under both warm and cool temperatures. More advanced seedling development generally occurred at higher temperatures with the exception of south Florida seedlings, in which the warmest temperature suppressed development. Fluctuating diurnal temperatures were more beneficial for germination compared to constant temperatures. Cold stratification had a positive effect on germination among all populations, but South Carolina seeds required the longest chilling treatments to obtain maximum germination. Results from the cold stratification experiment indicate that a physiological dormancy is present, but the degree of dormancy varies across the species range. The variable responses among populations may indicate ecotypic differentiation.
25623027|In this study, we have demonstrated that Zoysia japonica callus induced from mature seeds can produce high frequencies of plant regeneration and somatic embryogenesis, even following a prolonged period of subculturing. Initial callus cultures were induced from mature seeds of Japanese lawngrass (Z. japonica Steud.) incubated on a medium contianing major N medium salts, minor Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium salts, and modified MS medium organic elements supplemented with 3 mg L 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 0.01-0.02 mg L 6-benzyladenine. Compact callus were selected and subcultured monthly on a medium containing 2 mg L 2,4-D, 0.5 mg L kinetin, 500 mg L casein hydrolysate, 500 mg L proline, and 500 mg L myoinositol. Callus maintained in vitro for 18 mo could be induced to regenerate plantlets with a frequency of >90%. By contrast, 36-mo-old callus cultures failed to produce normal shoot regeneration. However, the addition of CuSO to the subculture media maintained >90% regeneration frequencies in such long-term callus cultures. Histological observations revealed that plant regeneration occurred both through somatic embryogenesis and organogenesis pathways. The ability to sustainable regeneration in long-term callus cultures will be valuable to the program of genetic transformation and somaclonal variant selection.
29736191|Rapid propagation technology was established and optimized in vitro for Chrysanthemum cinerariifolium (Trev.) Vis., an important botanical insecticide plant with a huge international market. A large number of buds could be induced directly from epicotyl and hypocotyl explants on Murashige T; Skoog F. J. Plant. Physiol. 15: 473-479; (1962) medium [Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium] supplemented with 0.3 mg l benzyladenine (BA) and 0.3 mg l -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Root induction and development could be observed within 15 d after inoculation on 1/2 MS medium supplemented with 0.2 mg l indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and 0.1 mg l rooting powder (ABT). Furthermore, a polyploid breeding study in vitro was reported to obtain superior breeding lines with high yield and good quality. Autotetraploid lines of C. cinerariifolium were obtained by colchicine treatments and identified by root-tip chromosome determination and stoma observation. The chromosome number of the autotetraploid plantlet was 2N=4x=36. Obtained autotetraploid lines will be of important genetic and breeding value and be used for further selection and plant breeding.
20461576|In vitro plantlet regeneration was obtained from cultured cotyledon and young leaf explants of five Indian chile pepper cultivars (Capsicum annuum L. cvs. Gujarat-1, Gujarat-2, Guntur-4, Selection-49, and Jwala). Adventitious shoot buds (ASB) were regenerated directly from cotyledon and young leaf explants in all the five cultivars on media containing benzyladenine (BA) alone or in combination with 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Regeneration frequency was highly influenced by cultivar explant type, media combination and their interactions, except the interaction between cultivar and explant, for number of ASB per explant. Percent contribution of individual source suggested that selection of explant type followed by medium combination and cultivars was essential for obtaining high-frequency ASB induction. Across different cultivars the young leaf explant was found to be the most responsive explant, while Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing BA alone (17.8, 26.6, and 35.5 M) was found to be the best medium for the production of maximum number of ASB. Between the two explants, shoot elongation was observed with ASB obtained from young leaf explants on MS medium containing BA (2.2 and 4.4 M) and gibberellic acid (GA) (1.4, 2.9, 4.3, and 5.8 M). The MS medium fortified with 4.4 M BA + 2.9 M GA was optimum for shoot elongation. Elongated shoots were rooted on liquid MS medium supplemented with 2.9 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and successfully established ex vitro.
4293178|Protoplast-derived, transformed maize plants were evaluated by Southern analysis for the presence of the aph IV gene which codes for resistance to the antibiotic, hygromycin B. This gene was used as a selectable marker for the transformation of maize protoplasts. Southern analysis was performed with fluorescein-labeled probe DNA. A new method for labeling molecular weight markers with
20064802|Many botanic gardens now have tissue culture laboratories for the micropropagation of plants that are difficult to propagate by conventional horticultural techniques. In many cases the work centers on rare and endangered species. Examples of the use of different techniques including micropropagation, in vitro seed germination, dual culture with symbiotic fungi, and regeneration from callus are discussed with reference to their application to plant germplasm conservation.
23255668|An efficient in vitro transformation and plant regeneration protocol was developed for Terminalia bellerica using cotyledonary node cultures. High-frequency shoot bud proliferation was obtained on medium with 6-benzyladenine. Significant improvements in plant regeneration occurred using elevated levels of CuSO 4 and CoCl 2 . Rooting occurred on a half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium containing indole-3-butyric acid. The rooted plants were acclimatized and transferred to field conditions. The genetic fidelity of the regenerated plants was confirmed using randomly amplified polymorphic DNA analysis. An Agrobacterium-mediated genetic transformation protocol was developed for Terminalia by varying several factors which influence T-DNA delivery. Southern blot analysis of regenerated plants confirmed selectable marker gene integration in transgenic plants. This transformation protocol can be utilized for further genetic manipulation of T. bellerica.
4292975|Rapid regeneration of multiple shoots of Paulownia fortunei was obtained from the petiolar ends of leaf expiants from in vitro grown shoots. The optimal shoot-inducing treatment was Murashige-Skoog medium supplemented with
20065029|The 'Carabao' or 'Manila Super' mango (Mangifera indica L.), a virtually neglected fruit before the advent of KNO flower induction in the early 1970s, is now the third leading Philippine export fruit after banana and pineapple. To apply biotechnology for improvement, a reliable embryogenesis and regeneration protocol is required. We have developed a protocol for somatic embryogenesis and plantlet regeneration in mango: eight strains of 'Carabao' and two unidentified varieties, PHL 12384 and PHL 12378. Over 40 batches of nucellar explants from immature fruits (0.75-5.0 cm long) were cultured in vitro from April 1999 to April 2000. Two media were used, MMSE, Mango Medium for Somatic Embryo Induction, Proliferation and Germination and MMPR, Mango Medium for Plantlet Regeneration. These are now routinely used. The protocol is reproducible in 14 other varieties of mango. Shifting the base medium from Gamborg's B5 medium to our own formulation, BP medium (Barba and Patea's formulation) effectively controlled browning. Browning has limited the successful in vitro culture of many woody species including the mango.
4293174|Microalgae are a highly diverse group of unicellular organisms comprising the eukaryotic protists and the prokaryotic cyanobacteria or blue-green algae. The microalgae have a unique environmental status; being virtually ubiquitous in euphotic aquatic niches, they can occupy extreme habitats ranging from tropical coral reefs to the polar regions, and they contribute to half of the globe's photosynthetic activity. Furthermore, they form the basis of the food chain for more than 70% of the world's biomass. Microalgae are a valuable environmental and biotechnological resource, and the aim of this review is to explore the use of in vitro technologies in the conservation and sustainable exploitation of this remarkable group of organisms. The first part of the review evaluates the importance of in vitro methods in the maintenance and conservation of microalgae and describes the central role of culture collections in applied algal research. The second part explores the application of microalgal in vitro technologies, particularly in the context of the aquaculture and biotechnology industries. Emphasis is placed upon the exploitation of economically important algal products including aquaculture feed, biomass production for the health care sector, green fertilizers, pigments, vitamins, antioxidants, and antimicrobial agents. The contribution that microalgae can make to environmental research is also appraised; for example, they have an important role as indicator organisms in environmental impact assessments. Similarly, designated culture collection strains of microalgae are used for ecotoxicity testing. Throughout the review, emphasis is placed on the application of in vitro techniques for the continued advancement of microalgal research. The paper concludes by assessing future perspectives for the novel application of microalgae and their products.
4293586|A procedure has been outlined for plant regeneration of an important medicinal shrub, Holarrhena antidysenterica, through shoot segment-derived callus. Explants used for callus induction were shoot segments derived from 14-d-old axenic plants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
4293884|Effects of genotype and explant orientation on shoot regeneration from cotyledonary explants of tomato were studied using 10 commercially important cultivars. The explant orientation affected shoot regeneration in all the tested genotypes. Cotyledons placed in abaxial (lower surface facing down) orientation consistently produced better shoot regenerative response and produced greater numbers and taller shoots compared to those inoculated in adaxial (upper surface facing down) orientation. Genotypic variation in terms of shoot regeneration response, number of shoots, and shoot height was apparent. Wounding of cotyledonary explants increased shoot regeneration response. However, shoot height was much lower in shoots regenerated from wounded explants compared to those that originated from intact cotyledons. Shoots produced from wounded cotyledons were abnormal in their form and structure.
4293418| An efficient method was established for high-frequency embryogenic callus induction and plant regeneration from 3-, 4-, 5- and 7-d-old coleoptile segments of Indica rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Kasturi). Compact and friable callus developed from the cut ends and also on the entire length of the coleoptile segments cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium (1962) supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D, 4.50-18.0 M), kinetin (2.32 M) and sucrose (3%, w/v). High frequency embryogenic callus induction and somatic embryo development was achieved when embryogenic calluses were transferred to MS medium supplemented with 2.25 M 2,4-D, 2.32 M kinetin, 490 M L-tryptophan and 3% (w/v) sucrose. Plant regeneration was achieved by transferring clumps of embryogenic callus onto MS medium containing 2.85 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), 17.77 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 3% (w/v) sucrose. Histological observations of embryogenic calluses revealed the presence of somatic embryos and also plant regeneration via multiple shoot bud formation. Three-, 4- and 5-d-old coleoptile segments showed a significantly (P < 0.05) higher frequency of plant regeneration and mean number of plantlets per explant in comparison to 7-d-old coleoptile segments. The highest frequency (73.5%) of plant regeneration and mean number of plantlets (11.9  1.0) was obtained from 4-d-old coleoptile segments. Regenerated shoots were rooted on MS basal medium containing 4.92 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and plants were successfully transferred to soil and grown to maturity. 
4293102|Transgenic sorghum plants (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench, cv. SRN39) were obtained by microprojectile-mediated DNA delivery (Bio-Rad PDS 1000/He Biolistic Delivery System) to explants derived from immature inflorescences. Explants were precultured on medium supplemented with 2.5 mg/l (
23326878|Hoffmannseggella cinnabarina has not been found in the wild for the last 70 yr in the State of So Paulo and, therefore, wild populations of this native orchid are thought to be extinct. This investigation studied seed storage at a low temperature, in vitro germination, and seedling development of H. cinnabarina in order to establish an optimized protocol for propagation, and thus assure species conservation. Seeds of different ages were incubated on Knudson C (KC), Murashige and Skoog, and Vacin and Went media with or without 1 M of N 6 -benzyladenine (BA) and exposed to either 12 or 16 h of light (30 molm -2 s -1 at 262C). Seed surface sterilization was deleterious to 3-mo-old seeds and severely reduced the viability of the 4-mo-old seeds. More mature seeds were not affected by the sterilization procedure. In general, the germination of 4-, 5-, 6-, and 7-mo-old seeds increased when BA was added to the culture medium especially under 16 h of light. Germination rates were highest with 8- and 9-mo-old seeds, and application of BA failed to enhance germination rates further. Developmental studies revealed that this cytokinin reduced seed and protocorm mortality rates; however, protocorm development was negatively affected in its presence. Seedling development was more pronounced when KC medium with 16 h of light was used. Long-term seed storage at 4C did not provide promising results. The protocol described in this study proved to be efficient and relevant to in vitro seed germination and initial development of H. cinnabarina, and thus will contribute to conservation of this orchid species.
4293453|The effects of different factors on the control and reversion of hyperhydricity during the in vitro propagation of Prunus armeniaca were studied. Treatments that decreased the hyperhydricity but did not affect micropropagation rates were the use of the bottom cooling system for 1 or 2 wk and agargel as gelling agent in 'Helena', whereas the best results were obtained with the bottom cooling system for 2 wk and the use of 0.8% agar as gelling agent in 'Lorna'. Hyperhydric shoots reverted to normal after keeping them for 3 wk in the bottom cooling system.
20461534|Prolific shoot regeneration was achieved in mungbean Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek from 3-d-old in vitro cotyledonary node and hypocotyl explants from seedlings derived from mature seeds on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with thidiazuron (TDZ) (0.9 M). An initial exposure to TDZ for 20 d and three successive transfers to fresh medium with reduced thidiazuron levels (0.09 M) resulted in the regeneration of 104 shoots/explant from the cotyledon and 30 shoots/explant from the hypocotyl. Thidiazuron-associated abnormalities such as short compact shoots, fasciation and leaf growth in the form of rosettes were observed in shoots regenerated from hypocotyl explants. Both axillary and adventitious shoot formation from the explants were confirmed by histology. Through repetitive cycles of regeneration in the presence of TDZ, the number of shoots that could be obtained from the two explant classes within 80 d was significantly higher than with previous reports in mungbean.
20461554|In vitro seedlings of Lilium  formolongi Hort. cvs. Norikula, RaiZen No. 1, RaiZen No. 3, RaiZen Early, and Bailansa were used to induce callus by variously modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) media, using protocols for flask culture and bioreactor culture. Green embryogenic callus proliferated from roots near the base of bulblets of five varieties on media containing 0.53-5.3 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), and 28 cell lines were obtained by subcultures on the same medium. For flask culture, the fresh weight (FW) of embryogenic cell clumps doubled every 4 wk on MS basal salts supplemented with 0.53 M NAA and 30 g l sucrose. The maximum frequency of somatic embryos that developed into plantlets was 76.67  17% when plated onto solid MS basal medium without plant growth regulators (PGRs). Among the treatments using four types of bioreactors, the best cell growth and regeneration rate (74  0.14%) of somatic embryos was in a modified 2-1 bioreactor. Cells incubated in the other three bioreactors turned brown and died. Histological study revealed that regeneration was by somatic embryogenesis. The regenerants showed normal growth and flowering after 8-9 mo. in the field. A cell line of cv. Norikula has been subcultured in MS basal salts containing 0.53 M NAA every 2 mo. for 6 yr. The cell aggregates became more synchronous and many typical embryogenic cells with dense cytoplasm were observed under a light microscope. The long-term embryogenic cells plated on MS basal medium still gave rise to numerous somatic embryos and converted into plantlets.
20064852|In recent years attempts have been made to supplement traditional breeding for the production of salt-tolerant plants with variability existing in cell culture. The potential causes suggested as an explanation for the limited success of the in vitro approach include: a) lack, or loss during selection, of regeneration capability; b) the development of epigenetically adapted cells; c) lack of correlation between the mechanisms of tolerance operating in cultured cells and mechanisms that operate in cells in the intact plant; and d) multigenicity of salt tolerance. The recent successful production of healthy, fertile, and genetically stable salt-tolerant regenerants from cells obtained from highly morphogenic explants which are selected early in culture (using one-step or short-term strategies) for salt tolerance, together with the demonstration that salt-sensitive plants can become tolerant by mutations in one or few genes, suggest that some of the potential limitations can be overcome and that some of them may not exist at all.
4293511| Bulbs and aerial parts of the Nepalese plant Allium wallichii are widely used for medicinal purposes and as a spice. Due to overharvesting the natural populations of the species have been increasingly reduced and the domestication of the species should be considered. For the purpose of the production of plantlets suitable for field culture, a micropropagation procedure based on multiple shoot culture has been established. Multiplication factors of 4.6 on average were possible on MS medium supplemented with 20 M zeatin. After rooting on MS medium with 10 M indolebutyric acid, plantlets were acclimatized to greenhouse conditions and transferred to the field with good success. 
4293351| Efficient plant regeneration systems via somatic embryogenesis have been developed for Acacia farnesiana and Acacia schaffneri [Leguminosae (Mimosoideae)]. The protocol used in this study consisted of placing immature zygotic embryos of these species in Murashige and Skoog semi-solid basal medium supplemented with 9.05 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 4.65 M kinetin to induce callus. Some parts of the callus were used for direct embryo differentiation and others for establishment of cell suspension cultures. In the first case, somatic embryos were produced on semi-solid differentiation media without growth regulators or with abscisic acid (ABA). The higher number of somatic embryos, 345 and 198 embryos per g callus in A. farnesiana and A. schaffneri, respectively, was obtained in media without growth regulators, but adding ABA increased the percentage of embryos that reached more advanced differentiation stages. The production of somatic embryos was achieved starting from cell suspensions only when these suspensions were plated into the semi-solid differentiation medium. Somatic embryos germinated on medium containing 217 M adenine sulfate with efficiencies of 69% in A. farnesiana and 47% in A. schaffneri. Some somatic embryos that developed into plantlets were acclimatized in the greenhouse, and they grew into normal plants. 
23016700|Scopolia parviflora adventitious roots were metabolically engineered by co-expression of the two gene putrescine N-methyl transferase (PMT) and hyoscyamine-6-hydroxylase (H6H) cDNAs with the aid of Agrobacterium rhizogenes. The transformed roots developed into morphologically distinct S. parviflora PMT1 (SpPMT1), S. parviflora PMT1 (SpPMT2), and S. parviflora H6H (SpH6H) transgenic hairy root lines. Consequent to the introduction of these key enzyme genes, the production of the alkaloids hyoscyamine
20461671|A highly reproducible Agrobacterium-mediated transformation system was developed for the wetland monocot Juncus accuminatus. Three Agrobacterium tumefaciens binary plasmid vectors, LBA4404/pTOK233, EHA105/pCAMBIA1201, and EHA105/pCAMBIA1301 were used. All vectors contained the 35SCaMV promoter driven, intron containing, -glucuronidase (gus), and hygromycin phosphotransferase (hptII) genes within their T-DNA. After 48 h of cocultivation, 21-d-old seedling derived calli were placed on medium containing timentin at 400 mg l, to eliminate the bacteria. Calli were selected on MS medium containing 40 or 80 mg l hygromycin, for 3 mo. Resistant calli were regenerated and rooted on MS medium containing hygromycin, 5 mg l (22.2 M) of 6-benzylamino-purine (BA) and 0.1 mg l (0.54 M) of alphanaphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), respectively. Seventy-one transgenic cell culture lines were obtained and 39 plant lines were established in the greenhouse. All the plants were fertile, phenotypically normal, and set viable seed. Both transient and stable expression of the gus gene were demonstrated by histochemical GUS assays of resistant calli, transgenic leaf, root, inflorescence, seeds, and whole plants. The integration of gus and hptII genes were confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and Southern analysis of both F and F progenies. The integrated genes segregated to the subsequent generation in Mendelian pattern. To our knowledge, this is the first report of the generation of transgenic J. accuminatus plants.
4293866| Yew cell suspension culture is used as an alternative source of paclitaxel, an anti-cancer drug. To optimize the initiation protocol, highly dormant yew seeds were germinated in vitro and the seedlings used to establish callus culture. The best sources of explant for callus initiation and growth were seedling stems and roots, and the most successful medium was modified B5 medium containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and kinetin. Calluses were friable and suitable for establishing cell suspension cultures, which were maintained for over 3 yr. Flow cytometric analysis of nuclear DNA content revealed that 2-yr-old cell suspension cultures consisted predominantly of putative euploid and aneuploid cells coexisting as sub-populations. Additional measurements performed 3 and 7 mo. later revealed further genomic instability, with a tendency towards a higher proportion of cells with elevated nuclear DNA content. In a selected cell line, which showed significant taxane production, the addition of 100 M jasmonic acid strongly enhanced total taxane production and slightly inhibited growth while no effect on nuclear DNA content was noted. 
20540999|Pinus pinaster (Ait.) somatic embryogenesis (SE) has been developed during the last decade, and its application in tree improvement programs is underway. Nevertheless, a few more or less important problems still exist, which have an impact on the efficiency of specific SE stages. One phenomenon, which had been observed in embryogenic tissue (embryonal mass, EM) initiated from immature seed, has been the loss of the ability to produce mature somatic embryos after the tissue had been cultured for several months. In an attempt to get insight into the differences between young cultures of EM (3-mo-old since the first subculture) of P. pinaster that produced mature somatic embryos and the same lines of significantly increased age (18-mo-old, aged EM) that stopped producing mature somatic embryos, we analyzed in both types of materials the levels of endogenous hormones, polyamines, the global DNA methylation, and associated methylation patterns. In addition, we included in the analysis secondary EM induced from mature somatic embryos. The analysis showed that the two tested genotypes displayed inconsistent hormonal and polyamine profiles in EM cultures of a similar phenotype and that it might be difficult to attribute one specific profile to a specific culture phenotype among genotypes. Experiments were also undertaken to determine if the global DNA methylation and/or the resulting methylation pattern could be manipulated by treatment of the cultures with a hypomethylating drug 5-azacytidine (5-azaC). An aged EM was exposed to different concentrations and durations of 5-azaC, and its response in culture was established by fresh mass increases and somatic embryo maturation potential. All of the analyses are new in maritime pine, and thus, they provide the first data on the biochemistry of EM in this species related to embryogenic potential.
4293444|Agar and activated charcoal (AC) are commonly used in tissue culture. However, their deeper actions and functions are largely unknown. This experiment investigated the effect of agar and AC, singly and jointly, on gibberellin (GA) uptake by corn shoots. Corn seeds were germinated on Murashige and Skoog medium (MS). Shoots excised from 1-wk-old seedlings were cultured on liquid (
23016696|Effects of polyamines on the development of embryonal-suspensor masses (ESMs) and the formation of somatic embryos were examined in an effort to improve the frequency of somatic embryogenesis in Picea glehnii. Exogenous spermidine at 100 and 300 M promoted the elongation of suspensors and the formation of somatic embryos. Exogenous putrescine at 100 M increased the number of somatic embryos and decreased the time required for formation of somatic embryos. Thus, exogenous polyamines improved the maturation capacity of ESMs and promoted the formation of somatic embryos in P. glehnii. Light microscopy revealed that ESMs with high maturation capacity consisted of the three following cells: round or oval cells, elongated cells, and protean cells. These components might be related to the capacity for formation of somatic embryos.
4293493| Embryogenic calluses were induced from 73% of Phalaenopsis shoot-tip explants excised from flower stalk buds by culturing for 7 mo. on New Dogashima Medium (NDM) containing 0.5 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), 4.4 M 6-benzylaminopurine and 29.2 mM sucrose. The sucrose concentration was increased to 58.4 mM 4 mo. after initiation of the callus culture. These calluses were successfully subcultured as cell suspension cultures in liquid NDM supplemented with 5.4 M NAA and 58.4 mM sucrose. By simply reducing the sucrose concentration to 29.2 mM, the cells grew into plantlets through a developmental process similar to that of Phalaenopsis seedlings. The occurrence of somaclonal variants was less than 10% in six out of eight genotypes examined. These results suggest that the embryogenic callus and cell suspension culture could be utilized as the materials for micropropagation and breeding of Phalaenopsis orchids. 
4293696| We have developed efficient methods for plant regeneration, via both embryogenesis and organogenesis, of Smooth Cayenne pineapple, Ananas comosus(L.) Merr. Leaf bases and core (stem) sections of in vitro shoots, produced from culture of crown tip meristem, were used as explants for plant regeneration as follows: (1) Leaf base and core section explants cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 41 M 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid (picloram, P) or thidiazuron (T)/P combinations produced embryogenic tissues. Different types of embryogenic tissues (friable emryogenic tissue, embryogenic cell cluster, and chunky embryogenic tissue) have been developed with varying properties in terms of growth rate and state of development. The embryogenic tissues regenerated shoots upon culture on MS medium containing 13 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 1 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) followed by culture on MS medium containing 4 M BA. (2) Crown tip meristems cultured on MS medium containing 13 M BA followed by leaf explants cultured on MS medium with 27 M NAA and 1 M BA produced shoots via direct organogenesis. (3) Explants cultured on MS medium containing 5 M T and 0.5 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) produced nodular globular structures, which produced shoots upon culture on MS medium containing 1 M BA and 1 M gibberellic acid. Shoots obtained from all of the above methods were rooted in half-strength MS medium containing 3 M NAA and 2.5 M IBA. Plants were transferred to the greenhouse or shipped to Costa Rica for field trials. Somatic embryo-derived plants exhibited 21% spininess, and organogenic-derived plants exhibited 5% spininess in the field trials. 
4293914|Dendrobium candidum Wall. Ex Lindl. is an important species used in the formulation of Shih-hu, a Chinese traditional medicine. An efficient protocol for in vitro propagation of D. candidum using the axenic nodal segments of the shoots, originated from the in vitro germinated seedlings, was developed. The seeds from 120-d-old capsules after pollination were first germinated on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with
23016611|Suaeda salsa calluses cultured in darkness for 28 d were transferred to Murashige and Skoog (MS) media containing various growth regulators under white light conditions for 10 d to investigate cell growth, betacyanin accumulation, and expression of dopa-4,5-dioxygenase (DODA). Callus growth was markedly promoted when 0.2 mgL 1 2,4-D and 0.5 mgL 1 6-BA were added to the MS medium. Surprisingly, of the auxins tested, IAA had no effect on betacyanin content, but 2,4-D strongly decreased betacyanin content. Betacyanin content was positively correlated with 6-BA concentrations in the range of 0.1 2.0 mgL 1 . DODA mRNA levels were consistent with the response of betacyanin content to exogenous growth regulators. These results suggest that betacyanin metabolism in S. salsa calluses is regulated under white light conditions by growth regulators through the regulation of genes such as DODA that are involved in betacyanin synthesis.
4293515| A protocol has been developed that leads to the development of complete plantlets of Coleus forskohlii within 35-40 d by culturing stem tip explants in MS medium containing 0.57 M indole-3-acetic acid and 0.46 M kinetin through direct multiplication at the rate of 12.5 shoots per explant. About 100% shoots rooted and micropropagated plants were successfully established in soil after hardening with a high survival rate. The significance of the present micropropagation protocol of C. forskohlii is the formulation of growth regulators which effected very fast multiplication of the plant (time reduced to one-third of the hitherto known methods). 
23016591|The Brazilian biomes (Amazon, Atlantic Forest, Cerrado, Caatinga, Pantanal, and Pampa) comprise one of the highest levels of plant diversity in the world; however, non-sustainable practices, deforestation, and land use have resulted in significant losses and fragmentation of the native forests. These ecosystems are now threatened and protection of their native plants through ex situ conservation is an urgent necessity. Cryopreservation and in vitro conservation are complementary options for securing and protecting Brazil's native plant species because their potential economic value is critically important to develop strategies that will (1) support their sustainable utilization, (2) protect against the over-exploitation of species growing in natural habitats, and (3) conserve the genetic diversity of germplasm from species of different provenances. Biotechnological approaches will help to address future economic and environmental demands placed upon already at-risk species. Conserving seed germplasm ex situ provides an additional safeguard against the risks (e.g., loss due to disease, climate change) of field conservation. Moreover, seed banks and cryobanks permit the long-term conservation of a wider genetic base; this offsets the labor and space intensive costs of conserving in the active growing state. This paper is a compilation of the current status of strategies applied for conserving Brazilian native plant species.
4292978| Carbendazim is the fungitoxic ingredient of different fungicides. In our experiments it was used as a supplement to stage II (multiplication) media for the micropropagation of Cordyline terminalis and Prunus avium. The product can be autoclaved without any loss of activity and there is no degradation of the product over a normal culture period of 32 days. With C. terminalis and P. avium no phytotoxic effect was revealed up to 160 g/ml. For C. terminalis shoot height was reduced and the number of shoots smaller than 15 mm increased significantly. 
20064881|Chile pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) plants were regenerated from cotyledon explants in vitro in four major stages: bud induction, bud enlargement, shoot elongation, and root development. Bud induction medium contained 0.5 mg/L (2.9 M) indole-3-acetic acid and 2 mg/L (8.9 M) N-benzyladenine. Bud enlargement occurred, and an occasional shoot appeared when medium with 2 mg/L (6 M) gibberellic acid, 2 mg/L (8.9 M) N-benzyladenine, and 5 mg/L (29.4 M) silver nitrate was used. Most shoots elongated after placement on a third medium without plant growth regulators or on fresh plates of bud enlargement medium. Incubations were for 2, 2, and 4 weeks, respectively, at 28.5 C and continuous light. Treatment with silver nitrate was necessary for multiple shoot production and elongation to occur in the third culture stage and was most effective when present in the second-stage medium but not in the bud induction medium. Sixteen to 26% of the shoots rooted in medium with 1 mg/L (5.4 M) 1-naphthaleneacetic acid after 1 month. Additional shoots transferred to a second rooting medium with 0.1 or 1.0 mg/L (0.54 or 5.4 M) 1-naphthaleneacetic acid developed roots, increasing the overall rooting efficiency to 70-72%. Most rooted shoots grew well and produced viable seeds when grown in the greenhouse. Other cytokinins tested for plant regeneration were zeatin and thidiazuron. Zeatin induced few shoots and fewer well-developed plants. Thidiazuron induced multiple shoots 4 months after culture began, but many were small and did not elongate further. Phytagar tissue culture grade proved superior to other agars tested, increasing bud induction frequency from 0-33% to 80-93% and eliminating explant hyperhydricity.
42568440|We describe an efficient protocol for callus induction from adult tissues of Prunus persica (L.) Batsch. Three different commercial peach genotypes, Early May, Zise May, and UFO-3, plus three other genotypes from hybrid crosses performed in February 2006, PS108, PS208, and PS708, were used in the study. Thirteen expiant treatments were tested using nine different plant parts. Murashige and Skoog and woody plant medium salts were assayed with several concentrations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), kinetin (KN), and thidiazuron, and two different photoperiods were tested, a 16-h photoperiod or continuous darkness. In terms of the quantitative response, two parameters were assessed: the number of d to callus induction and relative callus growth recorded after 30 d. Woody plant medium supplemented with 2,4-D and KN significantly increased the rates of callus induction in the majority of treatments. And no significant differences among the P. persica genotypes were found. The expiants derived from stem and calyx produced up to 85 and 96% callus induction, respectively. The protocol described here could be used for efficient callus induction in a range of Prunus spp.
29736161|This study reports a protocol for plant regeneration from cultured expalnts of green gram [Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek] via somatic embryogenesis. Somatic embryos were induced from mature cotyledons of var. TAP-7 and Pusa Baisaki when cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium fortifield with different concentrations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid singly or in combination with 2.22-8.88 M N-benzylaminopurine (BAP) or 2.32-9.38 M kinetin. Th type and concentration of auxin and plant genotype influenced the frequency of somatic embryogenesis. NAA was the most effective auxin for somatic embryo induction. The well-developed, cotyledonary shaped embryos of var. TAP-7 germinated into plantlets as a frequency of 56.6% on MS medium supplemented with 1.88 M abscisic acid and 6.66M BAP. Regenerated plants were transferred to soil and grown to maturity with 90% survival. The protocol described here offers a good potenial for genetic improvement using gene transfer techniques and the production of synthetic seeds of V. radiata.
41318715|Spilanthes maurtiana DC, (Compositae), a East African medicinal herb containing pharmaceutically promising secondary metabolites, has successfully been raised in vitro. We have developed a clonal propagation protocol that uses juvenile plants as starting material. The addition of benzylaminopurine (BA) (1.0 M) and naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) (0.1M) to the culture medium resulted in maximum shooting response with minimal callusing. Shoots rooted best in vitro in MS medium supplemented with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA; 0.2 M), and plants that had already developed roots showed better growth, with maximum survival rate, in the greenhouse after an initial hardening.
25623030|Pandanus amaryllifolius Roxb. has been identified as a rich source of principal basmati aroma compound 2 acetyl-1-pyrroline (2AP). An easy and efficient protocol for clonal propagation of P. amaryllifolius Roxb. using lateral buds as an explant has been developed and the in vitro-raised seedlings were used to study the lower epidermal papillae development. The principal aroma compound 2AP along with other aroma compounds are stored in the lower epidermis papillae of leaf. The developmental pattern of these papillae was traced out using scanning electron microscopy. It was observed that stomata act as the site of initiation for development of the papillae followed by their lateral spread across the epidermal cells. During development, the first papillae bulged out as a protrusion of the lower epidermis that further metamorphosed into well-grown papillae. These developments are well-correlated with 2AP contents, in which the in vitro-raised seedlings had less 2AP contents (66.99 ppb) than the mother plant (96.88 ppb).
4293161|A reproducible and effective biolistic method for transforming papaya (Carica papaya L.) was developed with a transformation-regeneration system that targeted a thin layer of embryogenic tissue. The key factors in this protocol included: 1) spreading of young somatic embryo tissue that arose directly from excised immature zygotic embryos, followed by another spreading of the actively growing embryogenic tissue 3 d before biolistic transformation; 2) removal of kanamycin selection from all subsequent steps after kanamycin-resistant clusters were first isolated from induction media containing kanamycin; 3) transfer of embryos with finger-like extensions to maturation medium; and 4) transferring explants from germination to the root development medium only after the explants had elongating root initials, had at least two green true leaves, and were about 0.5 to 1.0 cm tall. A total of 83 transgenic papaya lines expressing the nontranslatable coat protein gene of papaya ringspot virus (PRSV) were obtained from somatic embryo clusters that originated from 63 immature zygotic embryos. The transformation efficiency was very high: 100% of the bombarded plates produced transgenic plants. This also represents an average of 55 transgenic lines per gram fresh weight, or 1.3 transgenic lines per embryo cluster that was spread. We validated this procedure in our laboratory by visiting researchers who did four independent projects to transform seven papaya cultivars with coat protein gene constructs of PRSV strains from four different countries. The method is described in detail and should be useful for the routine transformation and regeneration of papaya.
4293477|Occurrence of somatic embryogenesis in in vitro cultures of Calamus merrillii and Calamus subinermis, two major large-caned rattan species, was scientifically demonstrated for the first time. Tissue responsiveness varied markedly according to the species and the type of primary explants used when initiated on
23016750|The changes in lipid peroxidation and the involvement of the antioxidant system in relation to salt stress tolerance were investigated in the callus of Acanthophyllum glandulosum and Acanthophyllum sordidum. The callus was subjected to NaCl stress (50 200 mM) for 40 d. The callus of A. glandulosum was less sensitive to NaCl stress than that of A. sordidum. Increasing concentrations of NaCl from 50 to 200 mM correlated to increased proline content in A. glandulosum. Total protein content was higher in extracts of A. glandulosum than in extracts of A. sordidum under both control and salinity treatments. Compared with A. sordidum, lipid peroxidation and H2O2 content were lower and the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), guaiacol peroxidase (GPX), ascorbate peroxidase, and glutathione reductase were higher in A. glandulosum under salt stress. Activity staining of antioxidant enzymes separated by native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) revealed that callus of A. sordidum had five Fe-SOD isoforms and one Mn-SOD isoform, all of which were reduced by salinity. In A. glandulosum, two Mn-SOD, three Fe-SOD, and one Cu/ Zn-SOD isoforms were detected. Out of these six SOD isoforms, expression of the Mn-SOD and Fe-SOD isoforms was enhanced at 100 mM and higher NaCl concentrations. Two and six GPX isoforms were detected in A. sordidum and A. glandulosum, respectively. Expression of the single CAT isoform in A. sordidum was preferentially reduced by salinity. In A. glandulosum, the two CAT isoforms showed differential down regulation under NaCl stress, with the CAT2 isoform detected only under control condition. These results suggest that A. glandulosum callus is better protected against salinity-induced oxidative damage by maintaining higher activities of antioxidant enzymes than the callus of A. sordidum.
41496508|Traditional breeding methods based on inbreeding are difficult to implement in the case of Sinapis alba (white mustard) because this plant displays high levels of self-incompatibility. More rapid progress in breeding could be possible if biotechnological methods and in vitro cultures were used. However, white mustard is not readily amenable to biotechnological treatment. Seeds of traditional S. alba cultivars (e.g., Nakielska) are characterized by high levels of glucosinolates and erucic acid. However, a new Polish variety of white mustard (Bamberka) possesses low erucic acid content in the oil. The main goal of the study was elaboration of a plant regeneration system via in vitro culture of hypocotyl and cotyledon expiants from low and high erucic acid-containing white mustard cultivars. In these experiments, a simple system for in vitro regeneration of white mustard was developed, with the aim to promote maximum formation of shoots within a short period of time. Traditional and improved cultivars of S. alba showed comparable capacity for shoot development from hypocotyl-derived and cotyledon-derived expiants. The two types of cultivars were characterized by essentially equivalent shoot regeneration responses, being slightly higher in hypocotyl than the cotyledonary explants. A greater influence on shoot regeneration from hypocotyl expiants was observed on medium supplemented with 4.4 mol 6-benzylaminopurine, 0.57 mol indole-3-acetic acid, and a low concentration of kinetin (4.6 mol). This technique will allow for rapid generation of sufficient plant material for further use in a variety of white mustard breeding projects.
4293682|Temporary immersion bioreactors are an efficient tool for plant mass propagation because they increase multiplication rate and plant quality. Little knowledge is available on the ecosystem and physiological behavior of plantlets when using this new culture technique. In order to evaluate the effects of the conditions on physiological change of pineapple plantlets, a factorial experiment was conducted, where axillary clusters were cultured under two levels of photosynthetic photon flux (PPF):
4293258| The effects of exogenous applications of ascorbic acid on white spruce somatic embryogenesis were examined. Increasing concentrations of ascorbate (1 M to 100 M) in the germination medium enhanced somatic embryo conversion in a linear fashion. At the optimal ascorbate level (100 M) the number of embryos able to undergo normal conversion, i.e., emergence of both root and shoot, increased from 34% (control) to 58%. The effect of ascorbate had a more pronounced effect on shoot growth than on root emergence; and at 100 M ascorbate, the percentage of embryos able to produce new leaf primordia increased from 47% (control) to 79%. Root emergence increased slightly from 64% in the control embryos to 74% in the presence of ascorbic acid. The ascorbate-treated embryos were characterized by an enlarged apical region, presumably due to a larger number of leaf primordia produced, and by dark green leaves. When allowed to grow further, these embryos were able to develop into normal plantlets. 
4293375|Eucalyptus camaldulensis can be micropropagated through so-called meristematic agglomerates (MAs). MAs (4-6 mm diameter) are dense shoot clusters initiated by the outgrowth of numerous successive buds. Their reddish nature is associated with an increase in their endogenous cytokinin level during the exponential phase of growth. A simultaneous decrease in the auxin level favors a high cytokinin/auxin ratio. A low level of polyamines occurs at the time of the lowest level of auxins. Slow hormone release by activated charcoal plays a role in this very prolific organogenesis.
4293891| An efficient system for the regeneration of plants from protoplasts was developed in Alstroemeria. Friable embryogenic callus (FEC) proved to be the best source for protoplast isolation and culture when compared with leaf tissue and compact embryogenic callus. Protoplast isolation was most efficient when FEC was cultured under vacuum for 5 min in an enzyme solution consisting of 4% cellulase, 0.5% Driselase and 0.2% Macerozyme, followed by culture for 12 -16 h in the dark at 24C. Cell wall formation and colony formation were better in a liquid medium than on a semi-solid agarose medium. Micro-calluses were formed after 4 wk of culture. Ninety percent of the micro-calluses developed into FEC after 12 wk of culture on proliferation medium. FEC cultures produced somatic embryos on a regeneration medium and half of these somatic embryos developed shoots. Protoplast-derived plants showed more somaclonal variation than vegetatively propagated control plants. 
20461678|Net photosynthetic rates (
20541015|An efficient system to regenerate shoots on excised leaves of greenhouse-grown wild lowbush blueberry (Vaccinium angustifolium Ait.) was developed in vitro. The effect of thidiazuron (TDZ) on adventitious bud and shoot formation from apical, medial, and basal segments of the leaves was tested. Leaf cultures produced multiple buds and shoots with or without an intermediary callus phase on 2.3-4.5 M TDZ within 6 wk of culture initiation. The greatest shoot regeneration came from young expanding basal leaf segments positioned with the adaxial side touching the culture medium and maintained for 2 wk in darkness. Callus development and shoot regeneration depended not only on the polarity of the explants but also on the genotype of the clone that supplied the explant material. TDZ-initiated cultures were transferred to medium containing 2.3-4.6 M zeatin and produced usable shoots after one additional subculture. Elongated shoots were dipped in 39.4 mM indole-3-butyric acid powder and planted on a peat:perlite soilless medium at a ratio of 3:2 (v/v), which yielded an 80-90% rooting efficiency. The plantlets were acclimatized and eventually established in the greenhouse with 75-85% survival.
4293341|Rapid in vitro propagation of Limonium wrightii (Hance) Ktze. (Plumbaginaceae), an endangered medicinal plant, was achieved by culturing the shoot-tip (primary and lateral), leaf- and inflorescence-node Explants. MS (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) medium supplemented with
20064939|Low molecular weight nitrogenous impurity compounds as well as raffinose are negative quality factors that interfere with efficient processing of sugarbeet (Beta vulgaris L.) for sucrose. In order to identify nutrient media for cell selection of biochemical mutants or transgenics that might have reduced levels of these processing impurities, the ability of 10 endogenous compounds to serve as sole nitrogen or carbon source for suspension plating and subculture callus growth was evaluated. The most productive concentrations of nitrate, ammonium, L-glutamine, L-glutamate, urea, and L-proline as sole nitrogen sources supported plating callus growth at 106, 159, 233, 167, 80, and 52%, respectively, as well as the historical 60 mM mix of nitrate and ammonium in Murashige-Skoog medium. Glycine betaine and choline did not support growth. D(+) Raffinose and D(+) galactose supported plating callus growth only 67 and 25%, respectively, as well as sucrose as sole carbohydrate source. No callus growth occurred on glutamine, glutamate, or glycine betaine as the sole carbon or carbon plus nitrogen source. Platings on either nitrate or ammonium as sole nitrogen source did not differ in sensitivity to the nitrate uptake inhibitor phenylglyoxal, suggesting that phenylglyoxal lacks the specificity for use in selection for mutants of nitrate uptake. The ability of raffinose to be used as the carbon source, and glutamine or glutamate as the nitrogen source, may preclude their use for selection of genetic variants accumulating less of these processing impurities. However, mutants or transgenics able to utilize either glutamine, glutamate, or glycine betaine might be selectable on media containing any one of these as carbon, nitrogen, or carbon plus nitrogen source, respectively, that is incapable of supporting wild-type cell growth.
20541035|The use and production of biofuels has risen dramatically in recent yr. Bioethanol comprises 85% of total global biofuels production, with benefits including reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and promotion of energy independence and rural economic development. Ethanol is primarily made from corn grain in the USA and sugarcane juice in Brazil. However, ethanol production using current technologies will ultimately be limited by land availability, government policy, and alternative uses for these agricultural products. Biomass feedstocks are an enormous and renewable source of fermentable sugars that could potentially provide a significant proportion of transport fuels globally. A major technical challenge in making cellulosic ethanol economically viable is the need to lower the costs of the enzymes needed to convert biomass to fermentable sugars. The expression of cellulases and hemicellulases in crop plants and their integration with existing ethanol production systems are key technologies under development that will significantly improve the process economics of cellulosic ethanol production.
23016609|Somatic embryogenesis was developed as a method of mass propagation for Lepidosperma drummondii (Cyperaceae), a difficult to propagate but important species for post-mining restoration in a region of high plant biodiversity, in the southwest of Western Australia. Cultures were initiated from excised zygotic embryos, shoot cultures to rhizomes. Only zygotic embryos of L. drummondii developed somatic embryos, with half strength Murashige and Skoog basal medium (BM) and 1 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) being the most effective combination. The first culture cycle yielded a mean of 30 somatic embryos per excised zygotic embryo forming an embryo cluster. After a further 6 wk in culture (on fresh BM with 1 M 2,4-D), approximately 350 somatic embryos per starting embryo cluster were recorded. Following regular sub-culturing of primary somatic embryo clusters onto fresh media (every 4 wk), more than 74,000 secondary somatic embryos were estimated to have been produced after eight subculture periods. This translates to between 1,000 and 2,000 somatic embryos produced from an estimated 45 mg of starting tissue per culture plate or potentially 22,000044,000 somatic embryos per gram of tissue. This is a significant improvement over all previous methods used to propagate L. drummondii, in which typical in vitro shoot multiplication rates are as low as 1.43 per 8 wk. This also compared favourably with published data and concurrent experiments undertaken in this study (as an extra control measure) on somatic embryo production for a related species Baloskion tetraphyllum (using the same BM with 1 M 2,4-D and coleoptile segments as explants). Various media combinations were investigated for efficacy in converting somatic embryos into plants with best results ranging from 86% to 100% conversion for B. tetraphyllum on BM without plant growth regulators. Development of L. drummondii somatic embryos into plants was not observed on BM without plant growth regulators. However, a best result of 39% conversion to plants was observed on BM with 1 M thidiazuron. This is the first report of successful development of somatic embryogenesis and conversion of somatic embryos into plants using thidiazuron for the Australian cyperale L. drummondii.
24596342|To improve root growth and production of bioactive compounds such as anthraquinones (AQ), phenolics, and flavonoids by adventitious root cultures of Morinda citrifolia, the effects of aeration rate, inoculum density, and Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium salt strengths were investigated using a balloon-type bubble bioreactor. The possible mechanisms underlying changes in activities of enzymic (superoxide dismutase, catalase, guaiacol peroxidase, ascorbate peroxidase) and nonenzymic (vitamin E) antioxidants, phenylalanine ammonia lyase, and stress levels (accumulation of hydrogen peroxide and proline, peroxidation of lipids) were also studied. Low aeration rate (0.05 vvm [air volume/culture volume/min]) accelerated accumulation of root fresh weight and dry weight (DW). High aeration rates (0.1 to 0.3 vvm) stimulated accumulation of AQ, phenolics, and flavonoids and reduced root growth. Low inoculum densities (5 and 10 g l) increased accumulation of those metabolites but inhibited root growth. Culture of adventitious roots with high concentrations of MS salts (1 and 1.5  MS) resulted in induction of oxidative stress that strongly inhibited root growth. Overall, an aeration rate of 0.05 vvm, 15 g l inoculum density, and half-strength (0.5) MS medium were optimal for enhancing accumulation of root dry biomass (4.38 g l), AQ (103.08 mg g DW), phenolics (54.81 mg g DW), and flavonoids (49.27 mg g DW).
29736177|Hardwood forests and plantations are an important economic resource for the forest products industry worldwide and to the international trade of lumber and logs. Hardwood trees are also planted for ecological reasons, for example, wildlife habitat, native woodland restoration, and riparian buffers. The demand for quality hardwood from tree plantations will continue to rise as the worldwide consumption of forest products increases. Tree improvement of temperate hardwoods has lagged behind that of coniferous species and hardwoods of the genera Populus and Eucalyptus. The development of marker systems has become an almost necessary complement to the classical breeding and improvement of hardwood tree populations for superior growth, form, and timber characteristics. Molecular markers are especially valuable for determining the reproductive biology and population structure of natural forests and plantations, and the identity of genes affecting quantitative traits. Clonal reproduction of commercially important hardwood tree species provides improved planting stock for use in progeny testing and production forestry. Development of in vitro and conventional vegetative propagation methods allows mass production of clones of mature, elite genotypes or genetically improved genotypes. Genetic modification of hardwood tree species could potentially produce trees with herbicide tolerance, disease and pest resistance, improved wood quality, and reproductive manipulations for commercial plantations. This review concentrates on recent advances in conventional breeding and selection, molecular marker application, in vitro culture, and genetic transformation, and discusses the future challenges and opportunities for valuable temperate (or "fine") hardwood tree improvement.
40793157|Glycyrrhizin is an important phytoconstituent of licorice which is widely used in the pharmaceutical and food industry. As the roots and leaves of Abrus precatorius also contain glycyrrhizin, it can be used as an alternative source of glycyrrhizin. In spite of extensive research work undertaken with cultures of Glycyrrhiza glabra, the glycyrrhizin production remains elusive. Successful production of glycyrrhizin in cell cultures of A. precatorius is being reported for the first time in our study. Cell cultures of A. precatorius L. were treated with the elicitors prepared from the fungi (Aspergillus niger and Rhizopus stolonifer), yeast extract, salicylic acid, ascorbic acid, and eugenol to induce and enhance the synthesis of glycyrrhizin. In the present study, an integrated yield enhancement strategy, developed by the addition of selected elicitor (A. niger and ascorbic acid) at optimized concentrations, resulted in 24.6 g/1 dry cell weight biomass and 53.62 mg/1 glycyrrhizin, which was 5.22 times higher in productivity in comparison to control cultures.
20064833|The levels of the water-soluble reductants ascorbic acid and glutathione and the activities of the enzymatic antioxidants superoxide dismutase, catalase, ascorbate peroxidase, monodehydroascorbate and dehydroascorbate reductases and glutathione reductase were determined in a fully habituated nonorganogenic sugarbeet callus line (considered a neoplasm) compared with a normal hormone-dependent callus of the same plant. Ascorbic acid was not recovered from either of the two calluses, irrespective of the technique used. Glutathione was titrated at a slightly higher level in the normal callus. Catalase activity was almost nonexistent in the habituated callus. The other enzymes (superoxide dismutase, glutathione reductase, monodehydroascorbate reductase, dehydroascorbate reductase, and ascorbate peroxidase) were found to have higher activities in the habituated callus. The results are interpreted as a higher protection of the neoplastic habituated cells against oxygen-free radicals and hydroperoxide-dependent oxidations. Such strong scavenging properties of the habituated cell line could explain previous results already reported, namely the stimulation of cell division at the expense of cell differentiation.
4293065|Leptines are natural glycoalkaloids found only in certain selections of the wild potato species Solarium chacoense. These rare glycoalkaloids have been identified to be phytochemical defensive agents against insect herbivores such as the Colorado potato beetle (CPB). In an attempt to introduce this CPB resistance into the cultivated potato S. tuberosum, interspecific somatic hybrid plants were developed between a dihaploid of S. tuberosum and a high leptine-producing germplasm selection of S. chacoense. The somatic hybrid was fused using protoplast electrofusion and regeneration techniques. Selection of interspecies fusion cell lines was based on hybrid vigor in protoplast-callus (p-callus) growth, on shoot regeneration from p-calli, and on characteristic appearance of anthocyanin pigment. This selection system was highly efficient and 12 of 13 fully regenerated plants were identified as somatic interspecies hybrids, as determined by the analyses of morphologic biochemical, and isozyme markers. In vitro insect bioassays demonstrated that the hybrids averaged a threefold reduction in leaf consumption by the CPB when compared to cultivated potatoes.
20540985|We have optimized conditions for efficient regeneration of the vegetatively propagated zoysia grass (Zoysia matrella L. Merr) cultivar "Konhee". Two explants, young inflorescences, and stem nodes, were used and they displayed different responses to combinations and concentrations of plant growth regulators in callusing, embryogenic callus formation, and regeneration. The highest callus initiation rate from young inflorescences was obtained on medium supplemented with 4.5 to 9.0 M 2,4-dicholorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4-D) and 0.44 M 6-benzyl amino purine (BA). When the BA concentration was lowered to 0.044 M, the highest percent embryogenic callus induction from young inflorescences was achieved. The highest callus initiation rate from stem nodes was obtained, when young inflorescences were cultured on MS medium supplemented with 4.5 to 9.0 M 2,4-D, 0.44 M BA, and 0.037 M abscisic acid (ABA). But embryogenic callus formation from the stem node was highest in the presence of 4.5 to 9.0 M 2,4-D, 0.044 M BA, and 0.037 M ABA. Addition of ABA significantly increased embryogenic callus formation from stem nodes, but not from young inflorescences. Regeneration percentage was variable in response to BA level, and inclusion of -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) and gibberellic acid (GA) further increased the regeneration percentage. The highest regeneration percentages obtained from the young inflorescences and stem nodes were 82% and 67%, respectively. This is the first report showing that plants can be regenerated from young inflorescences and stem nodes of vegetatively propagated zoysia grass.
4293770|Over the past 20 years, DNA-based biotechnologies have been applied to agricultural production and many crops with new and useful attributes have been cultivated in various countries. The adoption of this new technology by farmers has been swift, and benefits in terms of increased production per unit land and environmental benefits are becoming obvious. In forestry, the application of biotechnology is somewhat lagging behind and to date there are no commercial plantations with genetically modified trees. However, most tree species used in plantation forestry have been genetically transformed, and results demonstrate the successful and correct expression of new genes in these plants. At the same time, this new technology is being viewed with concern, very similar to the concerns voiced over the use of genetic engineering in agriculture. This paper discusses some of the issues involved for world forestry, with particular focus on future demand for timber and timber products and how modern biotechnology can contribute to meet the growing demand. Tree genetic engineering techniques will be outlined, and results reviewed for a number of species. Concerns over the use of this new technology will be described and analyzed in relation to scientific considerations.
4293714|An efficient regeneration protocol has been developed from leaf explants of Pluchea lanceolata, a medicinally important plant of the family Asteraceae. Nodular callus was initiated from young leaf segments cultured on Wood and Braun medium containing 2.0% sucrose (WB) supplemented with kinetin. On
4293545|The effect of long-term in vitro shoot culture on somatic embryogenesis in quince BA 29 was investigated. Three experiments were performed on leaves explanted at about 8-mo. intervals from the same culture stock and maintained under different light qualities. Embryo production was assessed either in terms of percentage of embryogenic leaves or number of embryos per leaf. By appropriate data processing both these responses were linearly related to photoequilibrium in each experiment. Statistical comparisons among the three experiments showed significant differences both in mean (computed over light qualities) and line slope values. In particular, with increasing shoot culture age, both percentage of embryogenic leaves and number of embryos per leaf progressively increased, while mean slope values decreased. The increase in mean values suggests a positive effect on somatic embryogenesis due to possible tissue rejuvenation when mother cultures were cultivated in vitro for longer periods. Slope decrease over time indicated the interactions between age of the in vitro culture and photoequilibrium. Thus, embryo production at different culture ages was consistently found to be highest at high photoequilibrium values; in contrast, if a low level of phytochrome was activated, embryogenesis in the youngest cultures was low or absent, but increased with the progressive tissue rejuvenation arising from long-term in vitro culture.
4293723|The influence of light quality on competence and determination for organogenesis was investigated using lettuce cotyledon explants. Lettuce seedlings from four genotypes were germinated in the dark or under white, red, or blue light. Cotyledon explants were excised and cultured on a shoot-inducing medium for 28 d under white light. Germination in the dark reduced shoot numbers, suggesting that light improves the competence of explants for organogenesis. When explants from seedlings germinated under white light were cultured under different light qualities, blue was found to inhibit shoot production while red light either promoted production or had no effect on shoot number compared to controls. Treatment with blue plus red light failed to overcome the inhibition by blue light. To ascertain the temporal responses of explants to light quality, they were cultured under red or blue light prior to transfer to the alternate treatment. Exposure to blue light within 7 d of excision permanently reduced explant competence for organogenesis. Exposure after this time had a minimal effect. These results suggest that both phytochrome and cryptochrome can regulate shoot production from lettuce cotyledon explants and blue light can only inhibit organogenesis, in lettuce, during a relatively small developmental window.
4293549| A method for adventitious shoot induction from petiole explants of Heracleum candicans is reported. Shoot buds were induced on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 4.4 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 1.1 M 2,4-dichlorophen-oxyacetic acid (2,4-D). A wound response in the presence of BA and 2,4-D at the time of culture was necessary for inducing shoot buds. The shoot bud regeneration was significantly influenced by size, type and orientation of explants on the culture medium. These shoot buds developed into 4-5 cm shoots upon transfer to a medium containing 1.1 M BA and 0.5 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The regenerated shoots formed rooted plantlets on MS medium supplemented with 4.9 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). About 15 plants were established in the field for further evaluation. 
4293599|Sodium chloride-tolerant plantlets of Dendrocalamus strictus were regenerated successfully from NaCl-tolerant embryogenic callus via somatic embryogenesis. The selection of embryogenic callus tolerant to 100 mM NaCl was made by exposing the callus to increasing (0-200 mM) concentrations of NaCl in Murashige and Skoog medium having 3% (w/v) sucrose, 0.8% (w/v) agar,
42568873|Bamboo varieties are very difficult to improve by traditional breeding methods. Here, we established an efficient plant-regeneration system for Dendrocalamus latiflorus (tropical giant bamboo) by anther culture. Culture conditions, especially the plant growth regulators required for callus induction and shoot differentiation, were optimized by orthogonal design. M8 medium supplemented with 5.37 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), 1.33 MN-benzyladenine (BA), 110.17 M phenylacetic acid (PAA), and a pretreatment time of 3 d produced the highest rate (5.08  0.61%) of callus induction. The maximum shoot differentiation rate reached 28.3  4.29% in M8 medium supplemented with 2.32 M kinetin (KT), 8.89 M BA, 1.08 M NAA, and 110.17 M PAA. The results of the ploidy level test showed that most of the regenerated plants were dodecaploid (96/100), a few were hexaploid (3/100), and one was triploid (1/100). The average chlorophyll content of dodecaploid lines was significantly higher than that of hexaploid lines. The present study provides an innovative method for bamboo ploidy breeding and a useful method for genetic improvement.
20461550|This study was carried out to evaluate the effects of purine synthesis inhibitor mizoribine, purine and pyrimidine synthesis inhibitors azaserine and acivicin, and surfactant Silwet L-77 on Agrobacterium-mediated transformation efficiency of embryogenic calluses from maize elite inbred lines Qi 319 and Ye 515. After transformation and three rounds of selection on 2.8 M chlorsulfuron, resistant calluses were obtained subsequently, and morphologically normal plantlets were regenerated from 80 to 90% of the resistant calluses treated with the compounds. There were no obvious discrepancies between the frequencies of plantlet regeneration and the ratio of PCR positive plantlets of calluses treated with different compounds. Results of PCR assay with primers for betA showed that 40.2% (103/256) of the regenerated plantlets were positive. The percentage of resistant calluses was 2-3-fold higher than the control after being treated with 0.19-0.27 mM mizoribine. The most suitable concentration of azaserin was 0.36 mM, which gave a 4-fold increase in the percentage of resistant calluses. Acivicin at 0.28-0.84 mM yielded a 3-5-fold increase in the percentage of resistant calluses, which is significantly better than the control. When the calluses were treated with 0.01 or 0.02% Silwet L-77, the percentages of resistant calluses were 34.89 and 25.60%, respectively. We concluded that purine synthesis inhibitors, purine and pyrimidine synthesis inhibitor and the surfactant Silwet L-77 at optimal concentrations significantly improved the Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of maize calluses.
20461620|An efficient seed germination system was developed for an endemic and endangered orchid of the prairies of Bogot, Colombia. The effects of three culture media [Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts (1962); Knudson C (KC) salts (1946); and Hydro-Coljap salts], activated charcoal [0 and 0.5% (w/v)], -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA; 0.0, 2.68 and 5.37 M), and four light regimes (white light, darkness, red light, and far-red light) on asymbiotic germination of Odontoglossum gloriosum, were studied. The best germination percentage and germination time was obtained on agar-solidified medium supplemented with Hydro-Coljap salts and 2.68 M NAA under red light with a 16-h photoperiod. The addition of activated charcoal did not stimulate either germination or the development of O. gloriosum seedlings. This study describes a single medium-based protocol able to achieve more than 330 000 seedlings within 40 wk, starting from a single capsule. This protocol is sufficient for both large-scale propagation and in vitro conservation of this threatened orchid.
20461544|To pursue the causal factors of ploidy variation in tissue culture of asparagus (Asparagus officinalis L.), ploidy status of stem explants and the calluses induced from these explants were examined using flow cytometry (FCM). The frequency of higher ploidy (&gt;8C) cells in the stem explants increased with increasing distance from the shoot apex. Calluses derived from sections far from the apex also showed higher ploidy distributions, and also higher ploidy (16C) in general than was observed in the explant tissue. Detailed studies using FCM and charge-coupled device (CCD)-equipped fluorescence microscopy showed that 16C cells appeared in the explant tissues within 1 wk of culture, possibly induced by the plant growth regulators (PGRs), especially 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), in the culture medium.
4293080| A tissue culture method was developed for the eradication of three important potato viruses, PVX, PVY, and PVS, from the Russet Norkotah variety and two of its strains (TXNS 112 and TXNS 278). The method combined the use of liquid medium, thermotherapy, and chemotherapy. Initially, virus-free plants were inoculated with PVX, PVY, and PVS and, after 10 d, tested quantitatively for virus titer by ELISA to determine the initial virus concentration. The apical tip and the roots were removed from the inoculated plants, and only stem sections from inoculated plants were cultured in liquid medium containing MS inorganic salts, vitamins, and ribavirin (40 M or 80 M). After 5 d, half of the plants were subjected to thermotherapy and half were kept at room temperature. At 6 wk, the uppermost node (5-7 mm) was removed and recultured, and plants were tested then and again after 6 wk using ELISA to identify the virus-free plants. Ribavirin alone eradicated the viruses from some plants; however, more virus-free plants were obtained when the treatments included heat. Additionally, the in vitro culture technique using liquid medium promoted rapid lateral shoot elongation and resulted in significantly faster plant production. Also this approach, which required less skilled labor, produced more plants than the meristem culture method for virus eradication. A detailed procedure for elimination of multiple viruses is described. This procedure resulted in production of more than 10% virus-free plants. 
4293820| An efficient and rapid micropropagation system was developed for a food and medicinally important endangered shrub, Decalepis hamiltonii ('swallow root'), through shoot multiplication. The influence of 2.5-7.5 M isopentenyladenine (2iP), 4.4-17.7 M 6-benzyladenine, 2.3-4.7 M kinetin, 2.8-6.8 M thidiazuron, and 2.3-11.4 M zeatin alone and in combination with 0.3-0.9 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) on in vitro multiple shoot production was studied. The maximum number of multiple shoots (6.5  0.4) was induced from shoot tips cultured on agar-based Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 4.9 M 2iP. But, both zeatin (9.1 M) and kinetin (4.7 M) in combination with IAA (0.6 M) were able to produce a maximum of 5.0  0.4 and 5.1  0.4 multiple shoots, respectively. Further elongation of shoots and adventitious shoot formation was obtained on medium containing 2.5 M 2iP and 0.3 M gibberellic acid. Elongated shoots were separated and rooted on MS medium supplemented with 9.8 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and various phenolic compounds within 5-6wk. Phloroglucinol and salicylic acid interaction with IBA stimulated in vitro rooting of shoots. Successful field transfer was achieved in rooted plantlets. 
4293163|Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek, popularly known as mungdaal in India, is an important source of protein for supplementing the vegetarian diet in all the states of India. There are various varieties of mungbean. Depending upon the flavor and aroma, these are classified into two groups: (a) the good aromatic variety or Sonamung, and (b) the other, without any significant aroma, the Tilmung. In the present investigation, we attempted to propagate a good aromatic variety of mungbean (which is becoming nearly extinct) by in vitro shoot-tip multiplication. The best hormone combination in B5 medium was 0.2 mg of
4292938|Habituated sugarbeet callus and cell suspension cultures derived therefrom, compared to hormone-dependent normal cultures, exhibit a shorter linear growth phase, although they divide actively. Microscopic observations indicate deficiencies in cell expansion and absence of cell differentiation. Cell expansion apparently is interrupted by a cell "budding" process. Some of the cells seem to be empty due to ballooning out of the protoplasm and the bursting of the cell membrane by defective cell wall development. A low amount of cellulose was confirmed by microspectrophotometric estimation. Such cultures exhibit all the characteristics of vitrified tissue.
4293585|While the in vitro clonal propagation of peat mosses (Sphagnaceae) in bioreactors has been established since the late 1980s, it has never been possible to regenerate Sphagnum species from isolated protoplasts, which is a key step towards the production of closely defined genetically modified clones. The present study describes an efficient protocol for protoplast isolation and regeneration of Sphagnum fallax. Protoplast survival rates of over 50% and regeneration rates of up to 20% were achieved by using excised capitulum buds as starting material and by co-cultivating Sphagnum protoplasts with protoplasts from a chlorophyll-deficient Solanum hybrid clone. Besides the effects of nutrient components and differential osmotic readjustment of the regenerant cell clusters, the interference of unique Sphagnum phenolics, sphagnum acid and hydroxybutenolide, with protoplast isolation efficiency is demonstrated.
4293112|Dogwood anthracnose, caused by the fungus Discuta destructiva Redlin, is a severe disease of flowering dogwood (Cornus florida L.) and Pacific dogwood (C. nuttallii Aud.). Disease control is inadequate in nurseries and landscapes and absent in the forest, and resistant cultivars are not commercially available. The ability to select tissues insensitive to culture filtrates from D. destructiva in vitro offers a novel and important approach for the selection of dogwood genotypes that are resistant to or tolerant of this devastating fungus. Embryo-derived dogwood callus cultures were established on Murashige and Skoog medium amended with benzyladenine (BA) and either 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or naphthalene-acetic acid (NAA). Selection for insensitivity to D. destructiva metabolites was done by placement of individual cultures on media amended with progressively higher concentrations of a partially purified culture filtrate (PPCF) containing low-molecular-weight compounds. Following this selection process, cultures were challenged in a dose-response format with PPCF to determine whether the sensitivity of the callus to the culture filtrate had changed. During the selection period, the fresh weight of callus grown on medium containing 2,4-D and amended with PPCF was always less than that of callus grown on medium amended with the same concentration of potato-dextrose broth (PDB, negative control). Fresh weight of callus was greater on medium containing NAA amended with PPCF than on medium with the same concentration of PDB. Callus selected in the presence of NAA showed decreased sensitivity to toxic metabolites at higher concentrations of culture filtrate. The in vitro system described may assist in the identification of disease-resistant germplasm important to the long-term survival of flowering dogwood.
4293448|Young leaf segments from plants growing both in vivo and in vitro were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with auxins [naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D)], cytokinins [kinetin (KN) and
4293799|Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers were used to verify the clonal fidelity of two micropropagated Drosera species, D. anglica and D. binata, which were regenerated by adventitious budding from leaf explants and shoot tips, respectively. Twenty arbitrary decamers were used to screen 15 randomly selected plantlets of each species. No genetic variation was detected among D. binata regenerants, whereas a 0.08% polymorphism frequency was estimated for D. anglica plantlets. These results indicate that the regeneration of plants through shoot-tip culture is a low-risk method for generating genetic variability, whereas material regenerated through leaf explants requires further verification.
4293911|A protocol was developed for high frequency somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration from cotyledon and hypocotyl explants of Eruca sativa. Explants grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
20064987|Pinus radiata is the most important softwood plantation species in Australia and New Zealand. The importance of this species in forestry has led to an increasing demand to improve the efficiency of selection time of the production population, which currently takes 13 yr by traditional methods. With the application of molecular biology techniques such as random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) the selection period can be reduced to 6 yr. In this study, the conditions for RAPD were optimized and the feasibility of this marker system was investigated with different families of Pinus radiata from Tasmania and South Australia. Best concentrations of Taq-polymerase (1 U), magnesium chloride (2 mM), and template DNA (20 ng) were selected to test different polymerase chain reaction (PCR) thermocycler profiles. Devey's et al. (1996) program was the most effective for production of clear RAPD bands. Best conditions were investigated to screen 10-12 bp arbitrary Bresatec and Operon primers. Both types were found useful at detecting genetic variation between families. Seventy percent and thirty percent of the selected Bresatec and Operon primers, respectively, produced polymorphic bands.
41496442|Asparagus racemosus is an important monocot medicinal plant that is in great demand for its steroidal saponins called shatavarins. This study was initiated to optimize the conditions for production of shatavarins in cell cultures of A. racemosus in a modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with six different combinations of growth regulators. Biomass accumulation was correlated with saponin production over a 30-d culture cycle. Biomass and saponin accumulation patterns were dependent on combinations of growth regulators and the pH of the medium. Maximum levels of saponin and biomass accumulation were recorded on day 25 of the culture cycle within a pH range of 3.4 to 5.6. Total saponin produced by the in vitro cultures was 20-fold higher than amounts produced by cultivated plants. Saponin accumulation was not a biomass-associated phenomenon; cultures which showed the highest biomass accumulation were not the highest saponin accumulators. Maximum biomass (28.30  0.29 g1) and maximum levels of shatavarin IV (11.48  0.61 mg g) accumulation was found using a medium containing 2.0 mg 1 2,4-D, 2 g1 casein hydrolysate and 0.005% pectinase. The highest levels of sarsapogenin, secreted and intracellular (4.02  0.09 mg g), accumulated using a medium containing 1.0 mg 1 NAA, 1.0 mg 1 2,4-D, 0.5 mg 1 BAP, 2 g1 casein hydrolysate and 0.005% pectinase, after 25 d. Shatavarins were secreted into the medium and can be isolated easily for further purification.
4293862|Somatic embryo (bipolar) or shoot (monopolar) morphogenesis in mesophyll cells of Euphorbia nivulia Buch.-Ham in vitro was dependent on the type of auxin supplementing Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing benzyladenine. Direct in vitro morphogenesis, i.e., organogenesis, and somatic embryogenesis were significantly influenced by seasonal growth of the donor plant, explant position (proximal, mid, and distal), and light. Explants collected in March/April were superior to July/August material. Proximal explants underwent morphogenesis more readily than mid- and tip-derived explants. Incubation in the light favored morphogenesis while darkness was inhibitory. Kinetin (Kn) was also inhibitory to morphogenesis. MS medium enriched with different levels of
20461701|Browning and necrosis of transformed cells/tissues, and difficulty to regenerate transgenic plants from the transformed cells/tissues (recalcitrance) are common in Agrobacterium-mediated transformation process in many plant species. In addition, most crop transformation methods that use NPTII selection produce a significant number of nontransgenic shoots, called "shoot escapes" even under stringent selection conditions. These common problems of plant transformation, (browning and necrosis of transformed cells/tissues, recalcitrance, and the occurrence of shoot escapes) severely reduces transformation efficiency. Recent research indicates that reactive oxygen species (ROS) such as superoxide radical ( $\text{O}_{2}^{-}$ ), the hydrogen peroxide (HO), the hydroxyl radical (OH), and the peroxyl radical (RO) may be playing an important role in tissue browning and necrosis during transformation. This review examines the role of ROS in in vitro recalcitrance and genetic transformation and the opportunities to improve transformation efficiency using antioxidants.
20064982|Yellowish compact callus, induced from cowpea hypocotyls on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (1962) containing 0.2 mg/l(0.93 M) kinetin and 0.4 mg/l (1.81 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), was subcultured on MS medium containing cytokinin alone, auxin alone, or auxins plus cytokinins in order to determine the effect of cytokinins on root organogenesis in callus cultures. The callus actively proliferated on the same medium but did not show any organogenic activity macroscopically as well as microscopically. On medium with N-benzyladenine (BA) and 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), the yellowish compact callus first changed to pale green compact callus and then many green spots appeared on its surface under light culture. But the yellowish compact callus remained yellowish and white spots appeared on its surface in dark culture. These spots gradually became white nodular structures. Adventitious root formation from the nodular structures occurred not only on the same medium, but also on medium with either auxin or cytokinin but not both. Yellowish compact callus on medium with auxin alone was transformed to yellowish friable callus, which did not develop adventitious roots. The yellowish friable callus could gain rhizogenic activity only after morphological modification to pale green compact callus on medium with auxin plus cytokinin. The modified callus did not form adventitious roots on medium with auxins but only with cytokinins. Therefore, it is suggested that cytokinins have stimulating effects on root formation from callus that previously did not show rhizogenic activity on medium with auxins alone. In addition, the rhizogenic potential of cowpea callus was discriminated from that of leaf explants, which formed adventitious roots directly on medium with auxin alone.
20064964|Two stocks of shoots growing in vitro, obtained from either seedlings or adult plants, were used to study the effects of material origin, the number of previous subcultures on the establishment medium, the explant type, and the macronutrients on shoot multiplication and elongation in Myrtus communis L., always in the presence of 4.4 M benzyladenine (BA). Shoot proliferation was influenced mainly by stock origin, with higher responses from the adult material than from the seedling material, and by the number of subcultures, with the largest rates of multiplication and elongation in the first subculture. In the first subculture, the adult material was characterized by high rates of shoot multiplication and shoot elongation, and some shoots were hyperhydric. On the other hand, in the first subculture the seedling material was characterized by lower rates of shoot multiplication and elongation, and some shoots were affected by apical necrosis. In the third and the fifth subcultures, shoot multiplication and elongation declined in both materials, and hyperhydricity or apical necrosis were never found, although higher multiplication and elongation were consistently found for the adult material. The influence of the studied sources of variation is discussed in relation to shoot multiplication and elongation.
4293119| Callus was initiated from in vitro-grown plants of Gladiolus cultivars 'Jenny Lee' and 'Florida Flame.' The age of callus used for regeneration of plants was either 9 mo. old or 8 yr old from 'Jenny Lee,' and 4 mo. old from 'Florida Flame.' Regeneration medium consisted of Murashige and Skoog's basal salts medium supplemented with 2.0 mg/1 (9.3 M) kinetin. This medium was supplemented with various concentrations of either bialaphos (Meiji Seika, Tokyo, Japan) or phosphin-othricin (Hoechst-Roussell, Frankfurt, Germany). Bialaphos was more effective than phosphinothricin at stimulating plant regeneration. Plants regenerated from 8-yr-old callus of 'Jenny Lee' only when the regeneration medium was supplemented with 0.10 mg/1 bialaphos. A bialaphos concentration of 0.01 mg/1 stimulated regeneration from 9-mo.-old callus of cultivar 'Jenny Lee' and 4-mo.-old callus of 'Florida Flame.' 
4293883|Leaf segments of the orchid sp. Phalaenopsis 'Little Steve' were used as explants testing the effects of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D; 0.45, 2.26,
4293634|An in vitro propagation protocol has been developed using nodal explants from a mature 'elite' tree of Acacia sinuata. Tissue browning was circumvented by soaking surface-disinfected explants in a solution of antioxidant (
4293652|An improved protocol for shoot regeneration from hypocotyl segments of seedlings from open-pollinated seeds of lingonberry (Vaccinium vitis-idaea L.) cultivars, 'Ida', 'Splendor', and 'Erntesegen', and a native clone from Newfoundland was developed. The effect of thidiazuron (TDZ) on adventitious bud and shoot formation from apical, central, and basal segments of the hypocotyl was tested. Highly regenerative callus was obtained from hypocotyl segments on modified Murashige and Skoog (MMS) medium containing
20065020|Plant morphogenesis in vitro can be achieved via two pathways, somatic embryogenesis or organogenesis. Relationships between the culture medium and explant leading to morphogenesis are complex and, despite extensive study, remain poorly understood. Primarily the composition and ratio of plant growth regulators are manipulated to optimize the quality and numbers of embryos or organs initiated. However, many species and varieties do not respond to this classical approach and require further optimization by the variation of other chemical or physical factors. Mineral nutrients form a significant component of culture media but are often overlooked as possible morphogenic elicitors. The combination of minerals for a particular plant species and developmental pathway are usually determined by the empirical manipulation of one or a combination of existing published formulations. Often only one medium type is used for the duration of culture even though this formulation may not be optimal for the different stages of explant growth and development. Furthermore, mineral studies have often focused on growth rather than morphogenesis with very little known of the relationships between mineral uptake and morphogenesis. This article examines the present knowledge of the main effects that mineral nutrients have on plant morphogenesis in vitro. In particular, the dynamics of nitrogen, phosphorus, and calcium supply during development are discussed.
4292933|Larix occidentalis Nutt. can be micropropagated using whole excised mature embryos. The basal medium for induction (over 70% response) was half-strength Quoirin and LePoivre salts with Schenk and Hildebrandt organics and
40793221|During the process of lateral organ development after plant decapitation, cell division and differentiation occur in a balanced manner initiated by specific signaling, which triggers the reentrance into the cell cycle. Here, we investigated short-term variations in the content of some endogenous signals, such as auxin, cytokinins (Cks), and other mitogenic stimuli (sucrose and glutamate), which are likely correlated with the cell cycle reactivation in the axillary bud primordium of pineapple nodal segments. Transcript levels of cell cycle-associated genes, CycD2; 1, and histone H2A were analyzed. Nodal segments containing the quiescent axillary meristem cells were cultivated in vitro during 24 h after the apex removal and de-rooting. From the moment of stem apex and root removal, decapitated nodal segment (DNS) expiants showed a lower indol-3-acetic acid (IAA) concentration than control expiants, and soon after, an increase of endogenous sucrose and iP-type Cks were detected. The decrease of IAA may be the primary signal for cell cycle control early in Gl phase, leading to the upregulation of CycD2; 1 gene in the first h. Later, the iP-type Cks and sucrose could have triggered the progression to S-phase since there was an increase in H2A expression at the eighth h. DNS expiants revealed substantial increase in Z-type Cks and glutamate from the 12th h, suggesting that these mitogens could also operate in promoting pineapple cell cycle progression. We emphasize that the use of non-synchronized tissue rather than synchronous cell suspension culture makes it more difficult to interpret the results of a dynamic cell division process. However, pineapple nodal segments cultivated in vitro may serve as an interesting model to shed light on apical dominance release and the reentrance of quiescent axillary meristem cells into the cell cycle.
23016592|This paper highlights recent advances and improved scientific understanding of conservation technologies through selected case studies on threatened plant species indigenous to Eastern Australia. This includes investigations into seed desiccation, storage responses and cryopreservation in rainforest species, particularly the socio-economically important Australian native Citrus spp., Davidsonia spp. (Davidson's plum) and Syzygium spp. This work also (1) increases our understanding of ecological correlates of seed desiccation sensitivity for predictive use and (2) improves restoration practice through better understanding of seed storage and germination requirements. The use of in vitro conservation technologies in support of conservation actions for endangered species is outlined in case studies on Wollemia nobilis (Wollemi pine), epiphytic and terrestrial orchid species, and an endangered fern species.
29736216|In vitro regeneration through somatic embryogenesis as well as organogenesis using cotyledon of a woody medicinal legume, Cassia angustifolia is reported. The cotyledons dissected from semi-mature seeds, if inoculated on Murashige and Skoog's medium (MS) supplemented with auxin alone or in combination with cytokinin, produced direct and indirect somatic embryos. A maximum of 14.362.26 somatic embryos per 20 mg of explants including callus were produced in 70% cultures on MS medium with 2.5 M benzyladenine (BA) + 10 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Although the percentage of embryogenic cultures was higher (83.33%) at 10 M 2,4-D + 1 M BA, the average number of somatic embryos was much less (7.60.85) at this level, whereas at 2.5 M BA and 5 M 2,4-D, there was a simultaneous formation of both somatic embryos and shoots. The somatic embryos, although started germinating on the same medium, developed into full plantlets only if transferred to MS basal with 2% sucrose. Cytokinins alone did not induce somatic embryogenesis, but formed multiple shoots. Five micromolar BA proved optimum for recurrently inducing shoots in the competent callus with a maximum average of 12.042.10 shoots and shoot length of 2.260.03 cm. Nearly 91.6% shoots (2-2.5 cm in size) organized an average of 5.120.58 roots on half strength MS + 10 M indole-3-butyric acid. All the plantlets have been transferred successfully to soil. Types of auxin and its interaction with cytokinin significantly influenced somatic embryogenesis.
20064830|This study compares the development of shoot apical meristems of white spruce somatic and zygotic embryos during germination. In mature somatic embryos, the functional part of the shoot apical meristem was bi-layered. After partial drying, a normal shoot meristem was formed from these two cell layers during germination. Other cells within the meristem were vacuolated and separated by intercellular air spaces. In the absence of the partial drying treatment, somatic embryos enlarged in size primarily due to vacuolation of cells and the formation of large intercellular air spaces. A majority of these somatic embryos failed to form a functional shoot apical meristem. Compared with somatic embryos, the shoot apical meristem of a mature zygotic embryo was well organized with a densely cytoplasmic apical layer. The cells within the meristem were tightly packed. Judging from the cell profiles during germination, all cells within the meristem of the zygotic embryo took part in the formation of the vegetative shoot apical meristem.
20461669|Trehalose, a nonreducing disaccharide of glucose, is one of the most effective osmoprotectants. Several strategies leading to its accumulation have been envisaged in both model and crop plants using genes of bacterial, yeast and, more recently, plant origin. Significant levels of trehalose accumulation have been shown to cause abiotic stress tolerance in transgenic plants. In this review, we describe the most biologically relevant features of trehalose: chemical and biological properties; occurrence and metabolism in organisms with special reference to plants; protective role in stabilizing molecules; physiological role in plants with special reference to carbohydrate metabolism. The emphasis of this review, however, will be on manipulation of trehalose metabolism to improve abiotic stress tolerance in plants.
20461717|Callus selection (CS) and the flamingo-bill explant (FB) methods were evaluated for efficacy in transformation for celery. Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains EHA105 and GV3101, each with the bar gene under the promoters NOS (pGPTV-BAR) or 35S (pDHB321.1), were used. Leaf explants were inoculated and co-cultivated for 2 d in the dark. Calluses emerged on the explants on callus medium (C), Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium + 2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) (2.3 M) + kinetin (2.8 M) + timentin (300 mgl). Calluses 4- to 6-wk-old were selected for glufosinate (GS) resistance by a two step method. First, calluses were transferred to C medium + GS 0.35, 0.5, 1, 2, 5, or 10 mgl; calluses formed only with 0, 0.35 and 0.5 mgl GS. All growing calluses from 0 and 0.35 mgl and a few from 0.5 mgl, were divided and placed back on C + GS 0.35-0.5 mgl for another 5-6 wk. Second, tolerant clones were again divided and placed on C + GS 1-50 mgl. When cultivar XP85 was inoculated with both strains, using pGPTVBAR, 19 glufosinate resistant (GR) callus clones were selected, but shoots regenerated only for strain EHA105 inoculations. When both of the strains (each with pDHB321.1) were inoculated on cv. XP166, 3 and 12 GR calluses occurred for EHA105 and GV3101, respectively. Using CS, a total of 34 GR callus clones were selected, and shoots were regenerated from over 50% of them on Gamborg B5 medium + 6-(, -dimethylallylamino) purine 2ip (4.9 M) + naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA; 1.6 M) and rooted on MS in 5-6 mo total time. Conversely, using FB with inoculation by GV3101/pDHB321.1 on cv. XP166 yielded putative transgenic celery plants confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in just 6 wk. Transformation of the bar gene into celery was confirmed by PCR for 5 and 6 CS and FB lines, respectively. Southern blot analyses indicated 1-2 copies in CS lines and 1 copy in FB lines. Herbicide assays on whole plants with 100 and 300 mgl glufosinate indicated a range of low to high tolerance for lines derived by both methods. The bar gene was found to be Mendelian inherited in one self-fertile CS derived line.
41432836|Somatic embryogenesis can be induced in the leaves of cork oak (Quercus suber L.) trees. The use of this propagation system in multivarietal forestry requires the mass production of cloned plants at low cost. Investigations were made into the influence of three types of Erlenmeyer flask and three orbiting speeds (60, 110, and 160 rpm) on oxygen transfer rate (K L a), the shear force index (SFI), biomass production, and the proliferation of embryogenie clumps (EMCs) in cultures during the proliferation phase. K L a varied between 0.11 and 1.47 h without biomass production being limited by oxygen availability. The EMCs grew even in hypoxic conditions, although the suppression of gaseous exchange strongly reduced biomass production. Cultures with different levels of hydrodynamic stress and SFI values (1.4 10 -8.8. 10 cm min) were obtained. Proliferation rates of EMCs increased with agitation rate and the SFI. The largest number of EMCs was obtained in baffled flasks agitated at 160 rpm (K L a of 1.47 h , and SFI of 8.8.10 cm min) with mild hydrodynamic stress enhancing growth. Biomass production increased with agitation and hydrodynamic stress, but only when the SFI value was below 5-10 cm min . The greatest biomass production was obtained in smooth 100 ml flasks agitated at 160 rpm. The differentiation of embryos was favoured by the lowest K L a (0.11 h) and SFI (1.4010 cm min) values, achieved using these flasks when agitated at 60 rpm.
4293121|Artificial symbiosis was established between diazotrophic Azomonas insignis and strawberry (Fragaria X ananassa). The partnership was created by in vitro techniques through callus induction and organogenesis. Suitable micropropagation [M3 = Murashige and Skoog (1962) (MS) basal medium supplemented with
4293895|Heterotrophic plantlets obtained by in vitro propagation are biochemically different compared to autotrophic plantlets. When heterotrophic plantlets are transferred to ex vitro conditions, higher irradiance levels are generally applied. Irradiance levels higher than those used in vitro lead to oxidative stress symptoms that can be counteracted by CO
20541022|From a preliminary experiment on 98 Chinese soybean varieties, 12 varieties with somatic embryogenesis frequency ranging from 0.0% to 85.7% were selected for further study in order to enhance the efficiency of somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration. The effects of different mannitol concentrations, abscisic acid (ABA) concentrations, and embryo explant ages (sizes) were investigated. Significant differences in somatic embryogenesis were found among the 12 soybean varieties, with initiation frequencies varying from 22.1% to 89.0% under suitable mannitol concentration, and with N25281, N25263, and N06499 having the highest somatic embryogenic capacity. The results showed that all three factors were relevant for raising rates of callus initiation and somatic embryogenesis, but with differential responses among the genotypes. The treatment of 3.0% (w/v) mannitol, 5 mg l ABA, and a 4- to 5-mm-sized explant was found to be optimal for somatic embryogenesis, generating the highest explant-based regeneration rate at 83.0%. The greatest average number of plantlets regenerated per explant (1.35) was observed in N25281. The above results provide a basis for efficient regeneration of soybean and are informative for the development of genetic transformation systems in Chinese soybean germplasm.
20461672|Papaya (Carica papaya L.) production is affected by low temperatures that occur periodically in the subtropics. The C-repeat binding factor (CBF) gene family is known to induce the cold acclimation pathway in Arabidopsis thaliana. Embryogenic papaya cultures were induced from hypocotyls of "Sunrise Solo" zygotic embryos on semisolid induction medium. The CBF 1/CBF 3 genes along with the neomycin phosphotransferase (NPT II) gene were placed under the control of the CaMV 35 S promoter and introduced into a binary vector pGA 643. Embryogenic cultures were transformed with Agrobacterium strain GV 3101 harboring pGA 643. After selection of transformed embryogenic cultures for resistance to 300 mg l kanamycin, somatic embryo development was initiated and transgenic plants were regenerated. The presence of the CBF transgenes in regenerated plants was confirmed by Southern blot hybridization. The papaya and the related cold-tolerant Vasconcella genomes were probed for the presence of cold inducible sequences using polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Possible cold inducible sequences were present in the Vasconcella genome but were absent in the Carica genome.
4293841|Immature zygotic embryo has been the widely used explant source to develop embryogenic callus lines, cell suspensions and protoplasts for transformation of cereal crops including maize, wheat, rice, oat, barley, sorghum, and millet. However, the lack of competence of immature embryos in certain elite lines is still a barrier to routine production of transgenic cereal crops in certain commercial cultivars. In addition, a great deal of effort is required to produce immature embryos, manipulate cultures of immature embryos or their cell suspensions, and cryopreserve cultures for further use. In addition, undifferentiated cells may have reduced regenerability after a few months of in vitro culture. Alternative explants and regeneration systems for efficient transformation of cereal crops are needed to avoid or reduce the above limitations. During the past decade, scientists have successfully manipulated the shoot apical meristems from seedlings of maize, oat, sorghum, millet, wheat, and barley in an effort to develop a less genotype-dependent and efficient cereal regeneration system that can be maintained in vitro for long periods of time without the need for cryopreservation. Furthermore, apical meristem regeneration systems were used to stably transform maize, wheat, rice, oat, barley, sorghum, and millet.
4293370|Petiolar and distal cotyledonary segments (PCS and DCS) of Albizia chinensis were cultured on Murashige and Skoog's (MS; 1962) medium and induced to form adventitious shoot buds in the presence of either cytokinins 6-benzylamino purine (BAP), kinetin (KN) or thidiazuron (TDZ). Superiority of BAP in inducing shoot bud and differentiation was observed. PCS was more morphogenic to shoot bud differentiation than DCS. TDZ was highly effective in inducing shoot buds, but arrested shoot growth, while KN produced more callus during differentiation of shoots. Rapid and high rate of shoot multiplication per explant was achieved through subculture in MS medium containing BAP (
4293523|Physiological and biochemical responses of micropropagated tea plants grown under field conditions were investigated in comparison to vegetatively propagated (VP) plants. No significant variation was observed between tissue culture raised (TC) and VP plants in terms of photosynthetic carbon assimilation rate. However, clones showed significant variation among themselves. Carbon assimilation studies carried out with a radiotracer technique revealed that 'Assam' cultivar UPASI-27 assimilated a higher amount of labeled carbon dioxide followed by UPASI-3. However, UPASI-27 was marginally better than UPASI-3 in terms of mobilization of assimilates to the growing sinks. Both, UPASI-3 and UPASI-27 reassimilated higher quantities of photosynthates followed by BSB-1 and UPASI-26. Though there was a marginal variation in photosynthetic pigments of TC and VP plants, it was not statistically significant. Similarly, no significant variations were observed in certain substrates (polyphenols, catechins and amino acids) and enzymes (polyphenol oxidase, peroxidase and phenylalanine ammonia-lyase) except protease involved in the formation of quality constituents of made tea. However, clonal variation was evident with respect to photosynthetic pigments, substrates/enzymes. Under soil moisture stress, no significant variation was observed between VP and TC plants in terms of proline accumulation.
4293629| One easy-to-root and one difficult-to-root species of the ornamental plant Grevillea were investigated for rooting potential in relation to peroxidase activity. In vitro-grown shoot segments of both species started to root 30 d after transplanting to rooting medium containing indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), however, fewer roots were found on fewer segments of the difficult-to-root species G. petrophioides compared to the easy-to-root species G. rondeau. Total peroxidase (POX) activity was measured during the rooting process. G. petrophioides showed higher total POX activity at the time point of adventitious root formation than G. rondeau. Isoelectric focusing electrophoresis showed that G. rondeau contained more acidic isoforms than G. petrophioides, but the basic isoforms were more prominent in the difficult-to-root species, especially at the time point of lateral root emergence. In addition, the ability of different hormones to induce POX activity in upper and lower stem segments of both species was tested. Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), IBA and -naphthaleneacetic acid induced POX activity in the upper stem segments of G. rondeau, whereas the same hormones led to the induction of POX activity in the lower stem segments of G. petrophioides. Similar to the results obtained with Grevillea, the difficult-to-root variety of Protea showed higher POX activity, especially in the middle stem part and the leaves. Feeding of radiolabeled IAA to the Grevillea stem segments resulted in the synthesis of three different compounds in both species. After 1 h incubation no differences were found in the uptake of IAA and the appearance of other labeled compounds. However, after 2 and 4 h incubation IAA uptake was faster in the easy-to-root species and IAA was also metabolized to a higher extent in G. rondeau. Three metabolites were found, tentatively identified as IAA-aspartate, IBA, and an IBA conjugate. 
20461548|Since the 1960s, numerous studies on sugarcane plant regeneration have been reported. Essentially, successful culture and regeneration of plants from protoplasts, cells, callus, and various tissue and organs, have been achieved in this crop. Although plant regeneration from callus cultures had been reported since the 1960s, definitive proof of somatic embryo development was not available until 1983. Since then, considerable progress has been made in understanding and refining somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration in sugarcane, for which development of an efficient embryogenic system was critical for the application of transgenic technology. Recent research in Australia and South Africa has led to the development of direct somatic embryogenic systems, which may improve transgenesis in sugarcane.
42568796|A simple and efficient protocol for direct somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration of kohlrabi (Brassica oleracea var. gongylodes) was developed. Somatic embryos were induced from immature zygotic embryos at different developmental stages cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 0, 0.5, 1.0, or 1.5 mg/1 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Zygotic embryos at the early cotyledonary stage, which were cultured for 4 wk on plant growth regulator-free (PGR-free) medium, displayed the highest percentage of somatic embryogenesis (80.7%). Embryogenic tissue could be subcultured on the same medium for over 1 yr. Embryogenic lines derived from early cotyledonary stage zygotic embryos displayed the highest intensity of secondary embryogenesis (highest mean number of new somatic embryos per responsive somatic embryo explant). Histological analyses confirmed the direct origin of the secondary somatic embryos. Prolonged culturing of embryognie tissue on PGR-free medium led to somatic embryo development into plantlets that were successfully acclimated in the greenhouse with a survival rate of 72.5%. Flow cytometry analysis showed no ploidy variation in 96.7% of the acclimated plants.
20065018|In the past 15 years tremendous progress has been made towards the development of systems for the induction and development of somatic embryos of coniferous species. Since the first report in 1985, several species have been induced to produce somatic embryos. This has been rendered possible by the development of rational media and improvement of culture conditions, which have resulted in increased embryo quality and higher conversion frequency. Understanding the physiological and biochemical events occurring during in vivo embryogenesis has been fundamental in the design of new protocols for improving the somatic embryogenic process. Specifically, the inclusions of abscisic acid (ABA) and osmotic agents, such as polyethylene glycol (PEG), have been shown to be necessary for the functional development of somatic embryos. In the past few years, physiological and biochemical investigations have been useful in increasing our knowledge on the mode of action of ABA and PEG during embryo development. In comparison with the flowering plants, our understanding on the molecular mechanisms regulating the embryogenic process in coniferous species is still very limited. The application of new molecular techniques is therefore fundamental towards this end. The emphasis of this review is on recent information dealing with the maturation of conifer somatic embryos.
4293363|The commercial multiplication of a large number of diverse plant species represents one of the major success stories of utilizing tissue culture technology profitably. Micropropagation has now become a multibillion dollar industry, practised all over the world. Of the various methods used to micropropagate plants, somatic embryogenesis and enhanced axillary branching have become the principal methods of multiplication. Long-term benefits of this enterprise, however, lie in the production of clonally uniform plants. The concept of genetic uniformity among micropropagated plants derived through organized meristems was exploded by several convincing reports of the incidence of somaclonal variation at morphological, cytological (chromosome number and structure), cytochemical (genome size), biochemical (proteins and isozymes), and molecular (nuclear and organellar genomes) levels. Somaclonal variation is not limited to any particular group of plants; it has been reported, for example, in ornamentals, plantation crops, vegetable and food crops, forest species and fruit trees. The upsurge of these reports, facilitated to a large extent by the technical developments made in molecular biology, is a matter of great concern for any micropropagation system. The economic consequences of somaclonal variation can be enormous in forest trees and woody plants, as they have long life cycles. Therefore, somaclonal variation has to be dispensed with if large-scale micropropagation of diverse plant species is to become not only successful but also accepted by end-users. In the light of the various factors (genotype, ploidy level, in vitro culture age, explant and culture type, etc.) that lead to somaclonal variation of divergent genetic changes at the cellular and molecular levels, genetic analysis of micropropagated plants using a multidisciplinary approach, especially at the DNA sequence level, initially and at various cultural stages, is essential. The results obtained at early multiplication stages from these tests could help in modifying the protocol/s for obtaining genetically true-to-type plants, and ultimate usage by entrepreneurs without any ambiguity.
4293591|Leptadenia reticulata (Retz.) Wight. & Arn., an important herbal medicinal plant, belongs to the family Asclepiadaceae. This plant has been known for its medicinal uses since 4500 BC. Presently this is an endangered species. There is a need for applying non-conventional methods of propagation for conservation and sustainable utilization of biodiversity of Leptadenia reticulata. We developed a micropropagation method for mass multiplication of L. reticulata. Explants harvested from greenhouse-maintained and field-grown plants were used to establish cultures of L. reticulata. The nodal shoot segments were surface-sterilized and cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium along with additives (
4293392| Embryogenic callus was induced from primary leaves of Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp. in MS medium (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Greenish-white, friable embryogenic calluses were used to establish suspension cultures. A shaking speed of 90 rpm and 0.4 ml packed cell volume per 25 ml medium were found to be optimal for maintaining suspension cultures. Globular, heart-shaped and torpedo-shaped embryos were developed in suspension culture containing 4.52 M 2,4-D. Maturation of cotyledonary-stage somatic embryos was achieved on 0.05 M 2,4-D, 5 M abscisic acid and 3% mannitol. Twenty-two percent of the embryos were converted into plants and survived; survival in the field was 8-10%. 
4293909| We report a protocol for somatic embryogenesis and plantlet regeneration of Buchanania lanzan Spreng (Family - Anacardiaceae), which is a tropical fruit tree widely distributed in the dry forests of India. Calluses were initiated from immature zygotic embryos cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with various combinations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 6-benzyladenine (BA) and/or 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The highest frequency (60%) of somatic embryo induction was obtained in cultures grown on MS medium fortified with 4.53 M 2,4-D, 5.32 M NAA and 4.48 M BA. The medium supplemented with 15 M abscisic acid (ABA) was most effective for maturation and germination of somatic embryos. This is the first report on somatic embryogenesis in B. lanzan, which may be helpful for in vitro propagation, ex situ conservation and genetic manipulation of this species. 
20461675|Breeding efforts to obtain more nutritious maize materials aimed at alleviating dietary deficiencies in developing countries have resulted in an improved maize germplasm known as quality protein maize (QPM). Quality protein maize has higher contents of tryptophan, lysine, and leucine than common maize, but suffers from some major agronomic drawbacks found in common inbred maize lines, such as susceptibility to insect pests and fungal and bacterial diseases and herbicide sensitivity. The development of a reproducible and efficient protocol for tissue culture of QPM is expected to solve some of these deficiencies. In this work, we have evaluated different formulations for in vitro induction of morphogenic responses in three QPM lines developed by the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT): CML (CIMMYT maize line)-145, CML-176, and CML-186. Only CML-176 and CML-186 have proven to be responsive to the in vitro conditions considered in this work, with CML-176 showing the highest efficiency in regenerable callus formation and growth. N6C1 medium was found to be efficient for in vitro culture of QPM, whereas no plants could be regenerated by using MPC medium. From CML-176 embyogenic calli cultured on N6C1 medium, we were able to regenerate up to 0.3 plants per 500 mg fresh weight (FW) callus. Further modifications in this experimental protocol, including the replacement of 3,6-dichloro-o-anisic acid with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and modification of the N6C1 vitamin balance, significantly increased the regeneration response of the induced calli, with up to 16.8 and 9.3 plants recovered per 500 mg FW callus for CML-176 and CML-186, respectively.
4293395|The extraction, fractionation, and chromatographic separation of a series of proanthocyanidin monomers and oligomers were facilitated using a flavonoid-rich cell culture of Vaccinium pahalae Skottsberg as the donor tissue. The cell cultures, after exposure to light, readily accumulated anthocyanin pigments and other flavonoids in relatively large amounts, with minimal concurrent production of pectins, enzymes, and complex sugars produced in field-grown Vaccinium berries. The absence of these interfering compounds greatly simplified the isolation and purification of proanthocyanidins and other phenolic compounds from cell cultures, primarily using vacuum chromatography. Subsequently, the structures and molecular weights of several individual compounds and the general composition of unresolved fractions were established with
4292929|Vitrification-Hyperhydrous shoot development, effects the survival and quality of several micropropagated plants ex-vitro. The leaves which are the immediate organ to be affected, exhibit abnormal morphology and physiology. Leaf malfunction is apparently a stress response to very rich media and high relative humidity. The understanding of the underlying mechanism of vitrification and its control in vitro can contribute to a more efficient micropropagation. Vitrification was found to be associated with elevated ethylene production which was related to hypolignification and poor cell wall development. Liquid and low agar media induced callose formation along with reduced and disoriented cellulose biosynthesis, manifested also in non-functioning guard cells. Malfunctioning stomata, in addition to defective cuticle contributed to increased transpiration and desiccation of in vitro formed leaves. The activity of various enzymes, associated with cell wall synthesis, was low and total proteins in normal leaves was higher than in vitreous ones. Various measures were found to reduce vitrification; lowered matrix and water potential in the medium, reduction in RH, low NH
29736156|A method was developed for plant regeneration from alginate-encapsulated shoot tips of Phyllanthus amarus. Shoot tips excised from in vitro proliferated shoots were encapsulated in calcium alginate beads. The best gel complexation was achieved using 3% sodium alginate and 75 mM CaCl2HO. Maximum percentage response for conversion of encapsulated shoot tips into plantlets was 90% after 5 wk of culture on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium without plant growth regulator. The regrowth ability of encapsulated shoot tips was affected by the concentration of sodium alginate, storage duration, and the presence or absence of MS nutrients in calcium alginate beads. Plantlets with well-developed shoot and roots were transferred to pots containing an autoclaved mixture of soilrite and peat moss (1:1). The conversion of encapsulated shoot tips into plantlets also occurred when calcium alginate beads were directly sown in autoclaved soilrite moistened with 1/4-MS salts. Encapsulation of vegetative propagules in calcium alginate beads can be used as an alternative to synthetic seeds derived from somatic embryos.
20064844|Ripe and immature seeds of Orchis papilionacea (method I and II, respectively) cultured on modified double strength Curtis medium were assayed for minituber production. Ripe seed germination both on solid and in liquid medium was low and the protocorms obtained developed into white calluses. Germination increased from, 9 to 33% when immature seed suspension culture was used. Protocorms obtained in suspension culture under light developed into minitubers, whereas those obtained on solid media developed into callus. A 30 s ultrasonication of immature seeds 1 wk after suspension, culture initiation further enhanced germination and minituber production. Minitubers had to be transferred and embedded in solid regeneration medium for normal growth.
4293471| Mature seed-derived callus from an elite Chinese japonica rice cv. Ewan 5 was cotransformed with two plasmids, pWRG1515 and pRSSGNA1, containing the selectable marker hygromycin phosphotransferase gene (hpt), the reporter -glucuronidase gene (gusA) and the snowdrop (Galanthus nivalis) lectin gene (gna) via particle bombardment. Thirty-five independent transgenic rice plants were regenerated from 177 bombarded calluses. Eighty-three percent of the transgenic plants contained all three genes, as revealed by Southern blot analysis. Western blot analysis revealed that 23 out of 29 gna-containing transgenic plants expressed Galanthus nivalis agglutinin (GNA) (79%) at various levels with the highest expression being approximately 0.5% of total soluble protein. Genetic analysis confirmed Mendelian segregation of all three transgenes (gna, hpt and gusA) in the R2 progeny. Amongst the R2 generation, two independent homozygous lines were identified that expressed all three transgenes. Insect bioassay and feeding tests showed that these homozygous lines had significant inhibition to rice brown planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens, BPH) by decreasing the survival, overall fecundity of BPH, retarding development, and decreasing the feeding of BPH. These BPH-resistant lines have been incorporated into a rice insect resistance breeding program. This is the first report that homozygous transgenic rice lines expressing GNA, developed by genetic transformation and through genetic analysis-based selection, conferred enhanced resistance to BPH. 
20064888|Arachis hypogaea L., peanut, has been a difficult species to manipulate in tissue culture. Lack of a reliable and quick regeneration method for peanuts has proven to be one of the hindrances in the application of transformation protocols to the crop. A protocol to initiate shoot apex elongation and rooting of these shoots is described. This protocol was successful with two peanut cultivars. Shoot apices were isolated from germinated seedlings and placed on Murashige and Skoog salts containing N-benzyladenine for shoot initiation. Once shoot elongation occurred, the explant was transferred to a rooting medium containing Murashige and Skoog salts and only one plant growth regulator, -naphthalene acetic acid. In as few as 3 weeks, the explants began to root and could be transferred to soil. Forty-five percent of explants isolated from germinating peanut seeds would root on this medium. Elongation and rooting of the shoot apices were not hindered by the addition of an antibiotic to the medium, indicating that the regeneration method could be useful in Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation protocols.
4293735| Creeping bentgrass is a very important turfgrass species used extensively on golf course greens, fairways, and tees. One of the challenges of creeping bentgrass management is the control of grassy weeds, most of which respond to herbicides in a similar manner to that of creeping bentgrass. As part of a weed management program for golf courses, Roundup-tolerant creeping bentgrass will be simple to employ and more effective in controlling problem weeds than currently available methods. The goal of this research was to evaluate fitness-related reproductive traits in four transgenic creeping bentgrass events modified to express a Roundup-tolerant gene, cp4 epsps, to determine if these creeping bentgrass events had gained an unexpected reproductive fitness advantage. We compared transgenic events ASR333, ASR801 with their non-transformed tissue culture line, C99056L and transgenic events ASR365, ASR368 with their non-transformed tissue culture line, B99061R. Populations of plants from three conventional cultivars were also included for comparison to determine whether significant variations, if present in transgenic events, were novel to the non-transformed organism, Agrostis stolonifera L. Our results showed that none of the four transgenic events surveyed were significantly different from the respective non-transformed tissue culture line plants for the following characteristics: first heading date, anthesis duration, inflorescence length, number of florets per inflorescence, pollen size, and seed-set capacity through open-pollination. One of the transgenic events, ASR333, needed significantly more days for anthesis initiation than the non-transformed tissue culture line, C99056L; while another transgenic event, ASR801, exhibited significantly shorter pollen longevity than plants of the tissue culture line, C99056L. However, ASR801 was not significantly different from the conventional cultivars 'Penn A-4' and 'Penncross' for pollen longevity. Plants of both transgenic events ASR365 and ASR368 did not differ significantly from plants of the tissue culture line, B99061R, for all characters measured. 
4293547| Shoot cultures of the paper shell almond (Prunus dulcis Mill.) cultivars 'Ne Plus Ultra' and 'Nonpareil' were subcultured for 4 wk at 4C on growth regulator-free basal medium under low light conditions. Elongated shoots were excised and their response to a range of rooting treatments determined. Various concentrations of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and -naphthaleneacetic acid were compared over a range of incubation periods to determine the optimum auxin for root formation. In addition, the effect of shoot base shading, phloroglucinol (PG), and basal salt composition were examined. The treatment resulting in the best rooting of both cultivars was shoot insertion for 12 h into water-agar (0.6% w/v) with 1.0 mM IBA, followed by 2 wk in basal medium without auxin but with 100.0 M PG. Explants were maintained under dark conditions for 3 d at the start of the treatment period, then exposed to light. Extending the darkening period did not improve rooting ability. Whilst half-strength Murashige and Skoog basal medium was suitable for rooting 'Ne Plus Ultra' shoots, full-strength Almehdi and Parfitt medium resulted in the best rooting of 'Nonpareil'. Under these conditions, 60.0% of explants developed adventitious roots. 
20171612|Exploiting plants as biological bioreactors for production and delivery of edible oral subunit vaccines is a promising application of biotechnology. Efforts to enhance expression levels of transgenes coding for antigenic proteins by exploiting promoters, targeting sequences, and enhancer elements have produced rather low quantities of the antigen in plant tissues, but enough to induce immune responses in feeding studies. This review will cover components of various gene constructs used in developing plant-based vaccines against a myriad of viral and bacterial diseases. Specifically, it will focus on sequences that are involved in targeting the antigen to mucosal tissues of the intestinal tract, thus enhancing the immunogenicity of the plant-based vaccine as well as those components that result in higher accumulation of the protein within the plant.
4293495|A protocol has been developed for differentiation of shoot buds directly from leaf segments of white marigold (Tagetes erecta L.). Leaf segments were taken from in vitro-proliferated shoots of white marigold established in aseptic culture from shoot tips of field-grown plants. Gibberellic acid (GA) played a significant role in the induction of shoot buds as well as in suppressing callus formation. Shoot buds were induced directly in Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium supplemented with
20064814|The study of the formation of pollen in plants has been the focus of extensive morphologic and cytologic observations. This complex developmental process requires the coordinated activity of both gametophytic and sporophytic tissues. The events that occur during microspore development represent a carefully orchestrated program of physiologic, biochemical, and genetic activities. Genes expressed specifically in pollen or in sporophytic tissues that support pollen development have only recently been identified and described. In the present paper we describe several genes expressed during pollen development in the important oil seed species Brassica napus (oil seed rape/canola). The characterization of three gene families expressed during microspore development is reviewed which provides a basis for comparison with other genes expressed during pollen maturation. The potential value of these genes for the development of novel plant breeding strategies and hybrid seed production is discussed.
42568882|Calotropis gigantea (L.) Ait., belonging to the family Asclepiadaceae, is a source of many cardiac glycosides (CGs) and their steroidal moieties (genins). These CGs have been reported to have anti-proliferative activity on tumor cell lines and are potential targets for cancer chemotherapy. However, the abundance of CGs in wild plants is particularly restricted and it is difficult to isolate the desired compound in required quantities. This study is the first attempt to standardize the induction and proliferation of callus from various expiants of C. gigantea specifically for the production of CGs. Callus growth was accompanied by CG measurement using high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Murashige and Skoog (MS) and modified Murashige and Skoog (MMS) media were optimized with various combinations and concentrations of auxin and cytokinin for induction and growth of calli from a range of expiant sources. While leaves and stem expiants resulted in greatest callus induction, MMS medium was found to be optimal. However, no CG was produced from callus grown on this medium. In contrast, the induction and proliferation of callus on MS medium were optimum at primary stages, but growth slowed during the third subculture. Therefore, calli were transferred to MMS medium to promote callus proliferation and production of CGs. As a result, three CGs and two genins were biosynthesized. Furthermore, the callus induction data in MS medium indicated that among different auxins, 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid was the best for callus induction compared to 1-naphthylacetic acid and indole-3-acetic acid. The data also revealed that the cytokinin/auxin ratio was critical rather than their independent presence for the induction of callus. Thus, the in vitro biosynthesis of targeted CGs may offer an alternative pathway for new source of antiproliferative agents in required quantities.
4293703|St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum L.) is a medicinal plant used in the treatment of neurological disorders and has been recently shown to have anticancer potential. The principle medicinal components of St. John's wort are hypericin, pseudohypericin, and hyperforin. One of the problems associated with medicinal plant preparations including St. John's wort is the extreme variability in the phytochemical content, mostly due to environmental variability, and biotic and abiotic contamination during cropping. The current study was undertaken to transplant St. John's wort plants from in vitro bioreactors in a closed controlled environment system (CCES) with CO
4293076| Direct somatic embryo formation and plantlet regeneration was achieved from immature leaflets of chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.). Optimal somatic embryogenesis was obtained when immature leaflets were exposed to media supplemented with 15 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) for 7 d, to 2000 M 2,4-D for 3 d, and to 50 M 2,4-D for 10 d, followed by transfer onto Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium. Exposure of explants to high 2,4-D levels (200-2000 M) for 3 d produced bottle-shaped embryos, while exposure to low 2,4-D levels (<50 M) and 50-2000 M for 10 d produced spherical-shaped embryos. Two percent of embryos converted into plants upon culture on MS medium containing 15 M gibberellic acid and 1 M 3-indolebutyric acid. All regenerated plants were phenotypically normal. 
4293408|Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) is a powerful tool for visualizing the chromosomal location of targeted sequences and has been applied in many areas, including karyotyping, breeding and characterization of genes introduced into the plant genome. A simple, routine and sensitive FISH procedure was developed for localizing single copy genes in rice (Oryza saliva L.) metaphase chromosomes. We used digoxygenin-labeled endogenous or T-DNA sequences as small as 5.6 kb to probe corresponding endogenous sequences or the T-DNA insert in denatured rice metaphase chromosomes prepared from root meristem tissue. The hybridized probe sequence was labeled with cy3-conjugated anti-mouse IgG and visualized using fluorescence microscopy. Single copy and multiple copy introduced T-DNA sequences, as well as endogenous sequences, were localized on the chromosomes. The FISH protocol was effectively used to screen the chromosomal location of introduced T-DNA and number of integration loci in rice.
4293330| As a general group, long-lived perennial plants probably present the most challenging obstacles to the researcher, breeder or propagator utilizing microculture as a tool. These challenges appear during all stages of the microculture process, but are probably most resplendent during the stabilization phase. What may be particularly frustrating is that much of this 'recalcitrance' is genetically driven and is thus difficult to control by environmental and nutritional manipulations in microculture. Perennials have complex seasonal cycles and life cycles, which complicate control of their growth in microculture. As shoot cultures have provided useful tools for overcoming these limitations, the inability to establish stabilized shoot cultures is a major form of recalcitrance. Plants having seasonal growth dynamics dominated by strong episodic or determinant shoot growth are some of the most recalcitrant species because stabilized shoot cultures cannot be readily generated. In some cases, episodic growth may be tied closely to phase state and can thus be controlled by manipulating phase; nevertheless, adequate controls have not been identified for many problematic plants. Another trait contributing to recalcitrance of perennials is the relatively slow growth rate in microculture. Slow growth complicates such procedures as selection of transformed tissues. The high phenolic content of many perennial tissues can interfere with the efficacy of transgenic traits such as -glucuronidase. Developmentally determined growth characteristics such as plagiotropism may persist through all stages of microculture and complicate the recovery of commercially useful micropropagules. Although some technical approaches can occasionally circumvent immediate microculture limitations, general solutions await the development of a deeper understanding of physiological bases of such genetically predetermined phenomena. 
42568820|Slow growth storage has been achieved for Castanea sativa (cv. 'Montemarano') shoot cultures over a duration of 48 mo at a temperature of 8C, where 82% of expiants survived and were able to resume normal growth after transfer to standard culture conditions at 23C. The evaluation of the chlorophyll content of leaves also showed no differences between material stored for 48 mo and control material subcultured at 23C. With a storage temperature of 4C, the survival of shoots was significantly lower at approximately 56% after 12 mo, and no plants recovered after 24-mo storage. The presence of 6-benzyladenine 0.44 M in the culture medium proved to be necessary for the recovery of healthy shoots, while pre-treatments with different concentrations of abscisic acid did not significantly influence the survival of shoots following storage conditions. A low level of light during slow growth storage resulted in positive effects on the rate of shoot survival over the longest preservation periods.
20064831|Protoplasts were isolated from cotyledons of 1- to 1.5-mo.-old seedlings of Chamaecyparis obtusa using 1% driselase or 0.25% pectolyase Y-23 in combination with 1% cellulase RS in 0.6 M mannitol solution. Cell division and colony formation were induced efficiently in liquid Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium containing 0.6 M mannitol and 10 to 30 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid or 1 M of naphthaleneacetic acid at the cell density of 1 to
41432842|The mango, a virtually neglected fruit before the advent of nitrate-induced flowering, is now the third leading export finit in the Philippines, with the 'Carabao' mango being the only variety exported. Delay or control of ripening, as well as the ability to program market availability, would further increase the value of mango.Prolonging its shelf life and improving other characteristics can be achieved through biotechnology, requiring a reliable tissue culture regeneration protocol, and a successful transfer-to-soil system. Between 2004 and 2008, immature fruits were collected and cultured in vitro. Primary somatic embryo (SE) induction ranged from 16-100% depending on the strain, collection time, and tree source. A single SE was required to initiate SE proliferation. When subcultured, the SEs proliferated, germinated, and produced plantlets.Initial shoot formation was 8-64%, while succeeding true leaf formation was reduced to 0-36%. In some cultures, abscission and browning were observed, but gas chromatography assays ruled out ethylene as the cause. Regenerated plants survived transfer to soil, but at low percentages. While it took 1 y to develop the tissue culture protocol, it took 3 y to develop the technique for successful transfer of plantlets to soil, and to the field. This is the first report, of a polyembryonic mango, variety Carabao, for which successful tissue culture and field transplantation systems were developed. The technology is equally important as a way to rapidly propagate uniform rootstocks of superior 'Carabao' strains or other varieties, for generation of variability, genetic transformation, and for germplasm conservation and exchange.
4293555|In vitro banana (Musa spp.) shoots were cultured under photomixotrophic (
20064917|Side shoots excised from underground dormant buds of Cynara scolymus L. were used as primary explants to establish in vitro cultures. A 3  3 factorial experiment with all possible combinations of three concentrations (0.5, 1.0, 2.0 mg/liter or 2.22, 4.44, 8.88 M) of N-benzyladenine (BA) and three concentrations (0, 0.1, 0.2 mg/liter or 0, 0.54, 1.07 M) of 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) was used to determine the optimum growth regulator combination for shoot multiplication. The highest rate of axillary shoots was induced on Murashige and Skoog agar medium supplemented with 0 mg NAA/liter and 1.0 mg BA/liter (4.44 M). Other cytokinins tested (kinetin, zeatin, and 2-isopentenyl-adenine were less effective than BA in inducing axillary shoot growth. Up to 60% of elongated microshoots rooted after 5 weeks on 1/2 MS agar medium supplemented with 2 mg/liter (11.42 M) indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Seventy percent of rooted plantlets were transferred successfully into soil. Plants are under evaluation for their genetic uniformity and clonal fidelity.
4293445|Regeneration of adventitious shoots from the medicinal plant Nothapodytes foetida (Weight) Sleumer Syn. Mappia foetida (family Icacinaceae) has been achieved using different seedling explants. Direct regeneration of shoot buds was observed in Murashige and Skoog's (MS) basal medium supplemented with various concentrations of thidiazuron. The optimum levels of thidiazuron concentrations were
20064949|A culture medium that can efficiently produce mature somatic embryos was developed for loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.). The medium contained maltose as a carbohydrate source and polyethylene glycol as an osmoticum. This medium formulation significantly enhanced embryo maturation efficiency compared to a medium with only maltose, or with sucrose combined with polyethylene glycol. Maltose at 4% and polyethylene glycol at 6% resulted in the highest embryo maturation efficiency; an average of around 100 cotyledonary embryos were produced from 1 g of embryogenic tissue. These results suggested that previous ineffective embryo maturation in loblolly pine may be due to the lack of the proper combination of osmoticum and carbohydrate source. This embryo maturation method also improved morphology of cotyledonary embryos of loblolly pine.
29736190|Agrobacterium rhizogenes is the etiological agent for hairy-root disease (also known as root-mat disease). This bacterium induces the neoplastic growth of plant cells that differentiate to form "hairy roots." Morphologically, A. rhizogenes-induced hairy roots are very similar in structure to wild-type roots with a few notable exceptions: Root hairs are longer, more numerous, and root systems are more branched and exhibit an agravitropic phenotype. Hairy roots are induced by the incorporation of a bacterial-derived segment of DNA transferred (T-DNA) into the chromosome of the plant cell. The expression of genes encoded within the T-DNA promotes the development and production of roots at the site of infection on most dicotyledonous plants. A key characteristic of hairy roots is their ability to grow quickly in the absence of exogenous plant growth regulators. As a result, hairy roots are widely used as a transgenic tool for the production of metabolites and for the study of gene function in plants. Researchers have utilized this tool to study root development and root-biotic interactions, to overexpress proteins and secondary metabolites, to detoxify environmental pollutants, and to increase drought tolerance. In this review, we provide an up-to-date overview of the current knowledge of how A. rhizogenes induces root formation, on the new uses for A. rhizogenes in tissue culture and composite plant production (wild-type shoots with transgenic roots), and the recent development of a disarmed version of A. rhizogenes for stable transgenic plant production.
20064948|Thirteen soybean genotypes representing maturity groups IV-VI were compared for organogenic responses on three media cultured under two lighting conditions with hypocotyl sections excised from 7-d-old seedlings. All soybean lines responded by producing adventitious shoots on the acropetal end of the hypocotyl explants, confirming genotype-independence of shoot initiation. Media containing 6-benzyladenine (BA; 5.0-10 M) induced the greatest numbers of shoots. Histological studies confirmed the adventitious nature of arising shoots by indicative formation of meristematic zones and shoot primordia from parenchymatous tissues of central pith and plumular trace regions of the hypocotyl. Incompletely excised cotyledonary buds also contributed to shoot initiation. Degrees of responses were media-dependent and varied with regard to genotype. Centennial, Epps, and Lyon gave the greatest individual responses. Between cultivars (across all treatments), the regeneration potential (percentage of explants producing meristem-like structures or shoot primordia) 4 wk after initiation ranged from 47 to 75%. Four wk later, regenerative ability (number of shoots produced per responding explant) and regeneration efficiency (number of shoots produced per explant plated) yielded 1.4-7.1 and 1.0-5.0 shoots, respectively. The optimized protocol included initiation on a medium containing 5.0 M BA for 4 wk, then transfer onto a shoot elongation medium (0.36 M BA) for 4 wk. For 11 genotypes tested, 66-100% of excised shoots produced roots after 4 wk on media containing 12.5-29.2 M indole-3-butyric acid. Of 109 regenerants transplanted to soil, 94% survived and no sterility has been observed on those mature enough to flower.
20171604| Suspension cultures initiated from calluses derived from seedling leaf explants of Acacia sinuata (Lour.) Merr. produced somatic embryos. Embryogenic callus was induced on semisolid MS (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) medium supplemented with 4.52 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 2.22 M 6-benzylaminopurine. A high frequency of somatic embryos was induced in MS liquid medium supplemented with 4.52 M 2,4-D and 10% coconut water. Further studies on ontogeny of somatic embryos showed that the cells destined to become somatic embryos divided into spherical proembryos. Subsequent development led to the formation of globular, heart-, torpedo-shaped and cotyledonary-stage embryos. The conversion of somatic embryos occurred on auxin-free MS medium. Effects of various auxins, cytokinins, carbohydrates and amino acids in enhancing production of somatic embryos were studied. MS medium supplemented with 87.64 mM sucrose and 342.46 M glutamine promoted higher somatic embryo production whereas cytokinin had no effect and led to recallusing of embryos. About 8-10% of embryos converted into plants. 
20540991|Mutations were induced in tissue-cultured wasabi (Wasabia japonica Matsumura) by treating in vitro-derived shoot tips with either -rays or X-rays at 0, 10, 20, 40 or 80 Gy. Doses of up to 40 Gy of either - or X-ray treatments resulted in a survival rate of more than 60% in culture after 3 mo. The use of - or X-rays at doses between 10 Gy and 40 Gy to induce mutation in W. japonica resulted in an alteration of the growth and allyl isothiocyanate (AITC) content of multiple shoots after 3 mo. in culture on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 5 M N-benzyladenine (BA). Putative mutants from the 40 Gy treatments of either - or X-rays exhibited a reduction in shoot weight, number, and height, whereas treatments of either -rays or X-rays at 10 Gy and 20 Gy doses showed no significant differences in shoot growth. All shoots treated with 80 Gy were either necrotic or irregenerable, while those treated with 40 Gy produced deformed leaves, from both types of ionizing radiation. Concentrations of AITC were measured by the use of gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The accumulation of AITC was shown to decrease when doses increased in both - and X-ray treatments, compared with the controls. Positive responses were solely occurred at 18 mo. after transfer of in vitro rooted shoots to the shade house. The survival rate, rhizome weight and AITC content of plants derived from shoots treated with 20 Gy or 40 Gy of either -rays or X-rays were significantly greater than those of the controls.
29736198|Two efficient regeneration systems were developed in Cunninghamia lanceolata, the most important conifer for industrial wood production in China. Cotyledons and hypocotyls derived from greenhouse-grown seedlings were used as initial explants in our research. A high frequency (95.11.84%) of adventitious buds were initiated directly from cotyledons cultured on Douglas-fir cotyledon revised (DCR) medium supplemented with 1 mg l benzyladenine (BA), 0.1 mg l -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), and 0.004 mg l thidiazuron (TDZ) with a maximum mean number of adventitious buds per cotyledon explant of 3.760.08. In contrast, a high percentage (93.730.55%) of adventitious buds regenerated via callus produced from hypocotyls cultured on DCR medium supplemented with plant growth regulators with a maximum number of adventitious buds per explant (16.710.34). Adventitious buds elongated on DCR medium supplemented with 0.2 mg l BA and 0.02 mg l NAA. After liquid pretreatment with 50 mg l indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), over 95% of the shoots successfully rooted on  DCR medium supplemented with 0.3 mg l IBA. The innovated systems reported in this study will be useful tools for future genetic manipulation of C. lanceolata and may be adapted for large-scale propagation in other conifers.
20171636| An efficient system for in vitro micropropagation of Solanum laciniatum Ait. has been established. Shoot induction on leaf explants was most successful on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 10 M N-benzyladenine (BA) and 1 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). BA (13 M) was optimal for further shoot multiplication, and rooting of separated shoots was achieved on medium without plant growth regulators. At each subculture, 20-25 shoots were obtained on each explant, from which six to eight were suitable for separation and further rooting. Leaf explants grown in vitro were successfully infected by Agrobacterium rhizogenes ATCC 15834. The established hairy root culture was, on the basis of dry weight, more productive when grown on half-strength MS medium than on full-strength MS (3% sucrose) and full-strength MS (6% sucrose) medium. The amount of solasodine-containing glycoalkaloids in hairy roots as measured by a colorimetric method was 0.3-1% of dry weight, which is higher than in the shoot culture (0.5% of dry weight) and lower than in leaves of in vivo-grown plants (1.1-1.4% of dry weight). The amount of solasodine-containing glycoalkaloids in leaves of in vivo-grown plants of S. laciniatum was similar to the related species Solanum aviculare Forst. Both species are morphologically similar, therefore we effectively distinguished them by flow cytometry. The genome size of S. laciniatum was determined as 4.03 pg and the genome size of S. aviculare as 1.69 pg. 
4293855|Tissue culture and plant regeneration protocols for the salt marsh plants Juncus roemerianus Scheele and Juncus gerardi Loisel. were developed. J. roemerianus callus was induced from mature seeds cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
4293066|An efficient and easy method for genetic characterization of plant somatic hybrids is proposed. In a first qualitative approach, four somatic hybrids and their parental species (Nicotiana tabacum and N. plumbaginifolia) were characterized by DNA fingerprinting and Random Amplification of Polymorphic DNA (RAPD). After this, a quantitative estimation of the degree of parental contribution to the hybrids was carried out by means of a slot-blot analysis. Both qualitative methods, showed one hybrid identical to N. tabacum, two almost identical to N. plumbaginifolia, and a fourth similar to this parental species, but with some N. tabacum admixture. The quantitative method, for the same hybrids, gave 83%, 7%, 7%, and 37% N. tabacum DNA contribution, respectively.
20461622|In vitro plant cultures tend to get contaminated easily with bacteria and fungi because they are grown for long times in sugar-rich media. Contamination of bioreactors is particularly problematic as larger volumes entail larger losses. To study the movement and develop subsequent control of contaminants in the mist bioreactor, the spore-forming microbes Penicillium chrysogenum and Bacillus subtilis were deliberately inoculated into three possible locations in the reactor: the growth chamber (GC), the medium reservoir (R), or the mist-generating chamber (MG). Compared to inoculation into either R or MG regions, the growth of P. chrysogenum inoculated into the GC required 3 more days (c. 60% more time) to move throughout the rest of the reactor. In contrast, regardless of where B. subtilis was inoculated (GC, R, or MG), it took 7 d to contaminate the entire system. The movement of filamentous fungi and bacteria seems to follow the same route of contamination throughout this reactor. Once visibly present in the reactor, neither contaminant was controllable by addition of the biocide, Plant Preservative Mixture (PPM). Both microbes were completely inhibited if PPM was added to the MG at the time of inoculation and then again 2-d post-inoculation of plants. Reactors were run for 3 wk. Plants remained free of contamination. These results will prove useful in the implementation of large-scale in vitro culture systems.
23321168|Vegetatively propagated plantlets of six rose cultivars were induced to flower in vitro on media containing full-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) inorganic salts, Gamborg's B5 organic elements with 400 mg l-1 myo-inositol, and different phytohormone combinations of 6-benzyladenine (BA) with -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA); thidiazuron (TDZ) with NAA; and zeatin (ZT) with NAA. The most efficient flower bud induction (49.1% and 44.1%) was obtained on media supplemented with 0.5 mg l-1 (2.27 M) TDZ and 0.1 mg l-1 (0.54 M) NAA or 0.5 mg l-1 (2.28 M) ZT and 0.1 mg l-1 (0.54 M) NAA for cultivar Orange Parade. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) showed that in vitro flower bud induction occurred mostly between 15 and 30 d in induction medium through the normal flower development processes. With TDZ and ZT as the best choice for flower induction in all six cultivars tested, different rose cultivars varied in their responses to phytohormone treatments. Our study also revealed that the total time from original culture and subculture time before flower induction were two very important factors for in vitro flower induction. Plantlets 156561 d from original culture and subcultured for 45 d were the best for flower induction.
4293816|In vitro propagation of Quassia amara L. (Simaroubaceae) was attempted using mature and juvenile explants. Attempts to establish in vitro culture using leaf and internode explants from a plant more than 15 yr old were unsuccessful due to severe phenolic exudation. Plant regeneration through direct and indirect somatic embryogenesis was established from cotyledon explants. Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with
4293021|A micropropagation system was developed for Acacia mearnsii De Wild., which is the principal source of the world's tanbark and an excellent firewood. Shoot tips 5-mm long from 3-wk-old seedlings germinated in vitro served as explants. The seeds were germinated on hormone-free MS medium and the shoot tips were cultured on three-fourth-strength MS medium supplemented with combinations of auxins [indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and
20064870|Single node stem segments from in vitro potato shoots cultured in liquid medium in the presence of ancymidol (23.4 M) developed into bud clusters in either shaken flasks or bioreactor cultures. Buds on the clusters developed tubers after subculture to a tuber induction medium with 23.2 M kinetin, 19.5 M ancymidol, and 6-8% sucrose. The number of tubers per cluster and their size were higher in agar induction medium on top of which a second layer of liquid medium was added, than in liquid shake or bioreactor cultures. The highest increase in tuber size (i.e., 720 mg fresh weight after 7 weeks), was obtained in agar cultures flushed twice with liquid tuber induction medium. The potential of bioreactor cultures for potato bud proliferation and enhanced tuber development in double layer agar-liquid cultures is discussed.
20064935|The present study is an attempt to exploit somaclonal variation for the varietal improvement of pigeonpea [Cajanus cajan (L) Millsp.]. The pigeompea plants were regenerated from cotyledon explants, and their progeny was screened for variability. The regenerated R1 plants exhibited a spectrum of alterations in floral morphology and architecture that were absent in the control population. The field-sown R2 plants segregated for traits such as flower color, leaf shape, seed size, color and strophiolation, flowering habit, and fertility. Tissue culture produced different mutational events resulting in both dominant and recessive alleles. Significant variation was observed for plant height, seed mass, and damage due to the insect pest Helicoverpa armigera. The R3 plants, obtained from seed of R2 generation selected for traits such as white seed coat, strophiolation, reduced plant height, seed mass and low damage due to Helicoverpa, maintained the traits when compared with the seed-derived control populations. The results indicate a definite gene for white seed coat and the possibility of additional genes for pest tolerance and high seed mass in an adapted background.
20461677|High frequency plantlet regeneration was achieved in cotyledonary nodes of Aegle marmelos. Cotyledonary nodes from 1 mo. old in vitro grown seedlings of A. marmelos were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with benzyl adenine (BA) (0-8.8 M), kinetin (KIN) (0-9.4 M), and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) (0-1.14 M) either alone or in combinations. The highest regenerative response was observed on medium containing 6.6 M BA+1.14 M IAA where approximately 86.6% of the cultures responded with an average shoot numbers of 487.5 per explant in 7-wk time. Cultures maintained on KIN-supplemented medium showed very poor response. In vitro responded shoots were transferred to root induction medium consisting of half-strength MS supplemented with auxins IAA, indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), or -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA). Rooting was best in medium supplemented with 14.7 M IBA. Rooted plantlets were acclimatized and transferred to the field with 80% survival rate.
20461577|An efficient plant regeneration protocol for rapidly propagating Rhodiola fastigiata (Hk. f. et Thoms.) S.H.FU, a traditional Chinese medicinal plant, was developed. Shoot organogenesis occurred from the leaf explants inoculated on medium with appropriate supplements of plant growth regulators. Up to 5.3 shoots formed per leaf explant cultured on a medium containing 13.32 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 0.54 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Regenerated shoots formed complete plantlets on a medium containing 1.48 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), and mature plants were established, acclimatized, and thrived in greenhouse conditions. The regeneration protocol developed in this study provides a basis for germplasm conservation and for further investigation of medicinally active constituents of the elite Chinese medicinal plant.
42568435|Repeated attempts to genetically transform Pinus radiata embryonal masses through cocultivation with Agrobacterium tumefaciens on MSG medium were unproductive due to Agrobacterium overgrowth. Timentin at either 200 or 400 mg1- was ineffective in inhibiting bacterial growth after cocultivation. In this study, the causes of the abundant bacterial growth were investigated by comparing MSG medium with two other media (mLVand DCR) commonly used in conifer somatic embryogenesis. Statistical analysis of the growth data (optical density and number of cell-forming units) showed that bacterium grew significantly more on MSG than on mLV or DCR during the 48-h cocultivation. This enhanced growth was attributed to the higher concentration of L-glutamine in MSG. Lowering the concentration of L-glutamine in MSG to 0.5 gl- resulted in similar growth of Agrobacterium compared with the other two media. MSG was also superior for the growth of radiata pine cells, with a statistically significant difference after 14 d of culture. Hence, to avoid bacterial overgrowth during and after cocultivation, a two-medium protocol was developed in which cocultivation was carried out on mLV, followed by 5 d on mLV with 400 mgl- Timentin. Selection for transformed cells and further control of bacterial growth was then performed using MSG with Timentin and Geneticin. By sequential application of these two media, 2,096 cell colonies were selected; of these, 94 were analyzed and 49 were transgenic. These results highlight yet another factor that might be critical for the success of transformation experiments but has not been sufficiently studied until now: the growth dynamics and ability to eliminate A. tumefaciens on various plant tissue culture media.
40981337|The ability to screen the functionality of gene constructs in a transient system of appropriate tissues informs the researcher of the potential success of stable transformation. For this purpose, we developed a transient system to test the functionality of endosperm-preferred promoters in maize. Two endosperm-preferred promoters from rice (a globulin and a glutelin promoter) were employed. Ears of Zea mays L. were harvested at 17 d after pollination, surface sterilized and the endosperm excised. Using Agrobacterium tumefaciens co-cultivation and sonication, transient expression of the target genes was detected after 4 and 5 d. We demonstrate expression of CBH I and CHB II (both exo-cellulases) up to 1.7% TSP, under the rice globulin and glutelin promoters.
23326875|Limitations to large-scale propagation of purple pitahaya (Hylocereus costaricensis [F.A.C. Weber] Britton & Rose), a potential source of betalains for the food industry, can be overcome through utilization of in vitro culture technologies. In this work, successful in vitro propagation from areoles of adult purple pitahaya plants is reported. Factors affecting culture initiation, bud sprouting and growth, shoot multiplication, rooting, and acclimatization were studied. Best results for culture initiation were obtained from the central region of new joints by disinfection of large (57 cm in length) explants that were subsequently divided. Explants were sequentially treated with Extran alkaline detergent for 10 min, followed by immersion in 70 % (v/v) ethanol for 1530 s, a mixture of the fungicide Benomyl and the bactericide Agrymicin (2 gl -1 each) for 30 min, and disinfection in sodium hypochlorite (1.0 %w/v) for 15 min. Culture of sectioned individual areoles, without removing thorns, on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 15 or 30 M N 6 -benzylaminopurine (BAP) for 3 mo with monthly subcultures, followed by transfer to the same medium with reduced BAP (02 M), induced bud sprouting in over 80 % of explants, adequate growth of the shoots, with production of lateral shoots, and spontaneous rooting within 160 d. These plants were successfully acclimatized in vermiculite and peat moss (1:1), or perlite and peat moss (2:1) in the greenhouse, with over 90 % survival rate. One hundred percent of the in vitro-derived plants were successfully transferred to the field. Furthermore, these plants showed higher survival rates, larger height and increase in stem diameter than equivalent plants from the same genotype, derived from stem segments (the common clonal propagation system utilized for this species) that were simultaneously planted.
4293672|Electroporation conditions were optimized for the transfection of protoplasts isolated from an embryogenic cell line of sweet orange [Citrus sinensis (L.) Osbeck cv. Hamlin]. Electric field strength (
4293613|Three auxin-type herbicides, namely 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), (4-chlorophenoxy)acetic acid 2-(dimethylamino)ethyl ester (centrophenoxine), and quinolinecarboxylic acid (quinclorac) induced direct somatic embryogenesis in seed-derived zygotic embryo explants of sweet pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) when added to Murashige and Skoog medium with 200 mM sucrose. Optimum concentrations for embryogenesis induction were 0.40-0.45 mM and 1.15-1.30 mM for 2,4-D and centrophenoxine, respectively (in the presence of
20461758|The effects of the herbicide isoxaflutole (IFT) on tissue growth and the detection of green fluorescent protein (GFP) in transgenic embryogenic soybean tissues were evaluated using image analysis. The inclusion of this "bleaching" herbicide at 3 or 10 mg l in a standard soybean embryo proliferation medium resulted in a change in tissue color from green to non-pigmented over the course of a 4-wk experiment. Although the loss in pigmentation was observed in transgenic and non-transformed control tissues, tissue growth remained unaffected. GFP expression in three different transgenic soybean clones, representing low to moderate GFP expression levels, was easily detected and quantified using image analysis following culture of the tissues on an IFT-containing medium. Quantification of GFP in tissues from the same clones cultured in the absence of IFT, however, was difficult using image analysis. After transfer of transgenic embryogenic tissue from a medium containing IFT to a medium without IFT, the growth of pigment-containing tissue resumed. The bleaching effects from this herbicide appear to be reversible and make IFT and possibly other bleaching herbicides useful in the analysis of GFP expression in tissues, where interference from chlorophyll is problematic.
20064919|Portions (1.0-1.5 cm long) of terminal shoots from selected mature trees Olea europaea L. cv. Arbequina, micrografted in one phase onto in vitro juvenile shoots, resulted in the restoration of shoot-bud proliferation and rooting competence. Although higher in vitro survival rates were obtained after a second repeated micrografting, the reinvigoration ratio of the regenerated shoots, indicated by proliferation and rooting ability, was not improved after two phases of micrografting. Thus, one-phase micrograft allows for a successful micropropagation system for olive trees. The cuttings obtained from successive pruning of plants produced through micrografting and growth in soil showed complete restoration of rooting competence, with rooting percentages similar to those of juvenile microshoots.
40981326|Tabebuia donnell-smithii is a tropical tree species that is highly important as a forest crop due to both environmental and economic benefits. Wood from these trees is in high demand, achieving up to three times the price of wood from Pinus species. Commercial plantations of this species help to reduce the pressure on natural populations; however, plantations are few in number due to the lack of domesticated varieties and the relative unavailability of seeds. Therefore, there is an urgent need for a reliable source of plantlets suitable for commercial production. In the present work, we report the clonal propagation of T. donnell-smithii from twigs collected from elite trees. Emerging axillary shoots were used as a source of expiants. Fungal contamination was a persistent problem but was partially overcome by brief exposure to low concentrations of chlorine. The stem fragments that were used as an expiant source were cultured in woody plant medium containing 30 M zeatin. This was the best condition for inducing adventitious shoot proliferation, producing 2.8 shoots per expiant. Coconut water had an additional positive effect, increasing the number of shoots per expiant by a factor of up to 3.6. The shoots were rooted in medium containing 20 M indole-3-butyric acid. Ninety-four percent of the rooted plants survived the transfer to soil.
29736196|A method was developed to initiate multiple shoots from mature nodal explants of Sida cordifolia Linn. High frequency of regeneration was achieved on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2.0 mg l 6-benzylaminopurine, 0.5 mg l -naphthalene acidic acid, 1.0 mg l adenine sulfate, and 10% (v/v) coconut milk. Multiple shoots were initiated within 21 d and the above media was capable of inducing the formation of more than 20 shoots from each explant. Regenerated shoots were successfully rooted on half-strength MS medium supplemented with 2.0 mg l indole-3-butyric acid and 3% (w/v) sucrose. Rooted plantlets were established in soil. The regenerated plantlets showed no morphological differences from the parent material. This protocol could be useful for germplasm conservation, cultivation, and genetic improvement of S. cordifolia.
20461739|Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis of 24 in vitro regenerated rye plants was performed in order to evaluate the somaclonal variation rate in this species and to identify rye genomic regions where mutations are preferentially promoted by in vitro culture processes. Regenerated plants were obtained from cell lines derived from immature embryos and plants were regenerated by somatic embryogenesis. Twenty-three regenerants showed variation when compared against sibling plants obtained from the same cell line. A total number of 887 AFLP markers were scored, and 8.8% identified the same polymorphism in plants obtained independently from different cell lines, revealing putative mutational hot spots. Using controlled crossings and analysis of the corresponding progenies, we were able to verify the genetic stability in the next generation for only five of these polymorphisms. The nucleotide sequence of the AFLP amplicon of four of the polymorphic markers was obtained, but only the sequence of two markers was clearly identified in the databases. The sequence of marker A1-303 was identified as part of a tandemly repeated sequence, the 120-bp family, which is located at telomeric regions and is widely distributed among rye chromosomes. The marker A5-375 showed high similarity with regions of Angela retrotransposons.
20171639| The effects of NaCl and CaCl on shoot regeneration from quince (Cydonia oblonga BA L29 clone) leaves were investigated. Caulogenesis was induced on in vitro-grown leaves treated for 2 d in liquid Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 11.3 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and cultured on MS gelled medium supplemented with 4.5 M thidiazuron and 0.5 M naphthaleneacetic acid. Three experiments were performed: in the first, we compared the effects of NaCl at 0, 25, 50, 100, and 200 mM in factorial combination with 3, 9, and 27 mM CaCl. In the second, NaCl was tested at 0, 5, 10, 20, 40, and 80 mM with CaCl at 0.3, 1.0, and 3.0 mM. The third experiment was carried out with the same experimental design as the second one but replacing NaCl with NaSO. Shoot regeneration was evaluated after 50 d of culturing: 25 in darkness and 25 in white light. In the first experiment, shoot regeneration was very poor and was observed only at the lower salt concentrations. In the second experiment, the percentages of caulogenic leaves were much higher, but decreased with increasing NaCl concentration. The more pronounced negative effect of the highest NaCl concentrations appeared to be partly mitigated by CaCl at 1 and 3 mM. The presence of 3 mM CaCl, in the experiment with NaSO, appeared to be even more effective in reducing the adverse effect of sodium stress on caulogenesis. This result was attributed to the lower Cl concentration in the growth medium, which resulted from replacing NaCl with NaSO. NaCl applied at low concentrations (5 and 10 mM) in combination with 3 mM CaCl exerted a favorable effect on adventitious shoot regeneration. As regards the Na and Ca interaction, when the Na/Ca ratio was below roughly 35 and 20, with NaCl and NaSO, respectively, at least 60% of leaves showed regenerating capacity, but optimal values of this ratio were not derived. 
40663786|Melaleuca alternifolia is cultivated for the production of an essential oil useful in the cosmetic and pharmaceutical industries. Despite the economic importance of this species, there is little knowledge about its in vitro propagation. The aim of this study was to establish an efficient protocol for micropropagation of M. alternifolia. With the goal of in vitro multiplication by axillary shoot proliferation, both solid and liquid MS and WPM media were tested with supplementation with BA at 0, 0.55, 1.11, 2.22, 3.33, and 4.44 M. The best result for shoot multiplication was obtained when either 0.55 M BA was added into solid MS medium or 1.11 M BA was added into liquid MS medium, with 5.6 and 11.8 shoots per expiant generated, respectively. On solid or liquid WPM medium supplemented with 0.55 M BA, the proliferation rates were 5.5 and 4.7, respectively. Three auxins (NAA, IAA, and IBA) were tested at 0.53 and 2.64 M during the rooting stage. Several sucrose concentrations (15, 30, and 45 g L) were compared to a sucrose-free medium. Rooting performances on four culture media were then compared: MS, half-strength MS (MS/2), MS+activated charcoal (AC), and MS/2+ AC. The results showed that auxin addition to culture medium is not necessary for in vitro rooting. Rooted microcuttings from different culture media were acclimatized in a greenhouse, and the survival percentage was evaluated. All shoots cultured in an auxinfree MS medium supplemented with sucrose (30 g L) produced roots, and all plants survived during acclimatization. Activated charcoal added in rooting medium reduced rooting rates.
20461759|Leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula L.) is a perennial, invasive weed used as a model to study invasive plant behavior, because molecular tools (such as a deep expressed sequence tag database and deoxyribonucleic acid microarrays) have been developed for this species. However, the lack of effective in vitro regeneration and genetic transformation systems has hampered molecular approaches to study leafy spurge. In this study, we describe an efficient in vitro regeneration system. Three highly regenerative lines were selected by screening the in vitro regeneration capabilities of stem explants of 162 seedlings. The effects of various culture conditions on in vitro regeneration were then evaluated based on explant competence to form calluses and shoots. High rates of shoot regeneration can be obtained using a growth medium containing 1 woody plant basal medium and 1 Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal salts, 1 MS vitamins, 1.11 M 6-benzylaminopurine, 1.97 M indole-3-butyric acid, and 3% sucrose, pH 5.6-5.8. After 30 d culture, multiple shoots formed either directly from the stem or indirectly from the callus. This method is a requisite for the development of genetic transformation systems for leafy spurge and may be used to develop in vitro regeneration techniques for other species in the Euphorbiaceae.
4293540|The roots of higher plants comprise a metabolically active and largely unexplored biological frontier. Some of their prime features include the ability to synthesize a remarkably diverse group of secondary metabolites, and to adjust their metabolic activities in response to different abiotic and biotic stresses. This adjustment includes the ability to exude a wide array of micro- and macromolecules into the rhizosphere and to phytoremediate toxic metals, with the potential to affect and alter the relationships between plants and both beneficial and deleterious soil-borne pathogens. In the past, research on root biology has been hampered by the underground nature of roots and the lack of suitable experimental systems to study root-root and root-microbe communications. However, recent progress in growing roots in isolation with other elements of the rhizosphere has greatly facilitated the study of root-specific metabolism and contributed to our understanding of this organ.
29736207|Echinacea, better known as purple coneflower, has received a global attention because of its increasing medicinal value. There is enormous potential for the discovery of new medicinal compounds in this species and an immediate need for techniques to facilitate the production of high quality, chemically consistent plant material for drug development and clinical trials. In vitro tissue culture of Echinacea can play a vital role in the development of novel germplasm, rapid multiplication, and genetic modifications for an enhanced phytochemical production. Recent establishment of liquid culture techniques, large-scale bioreactors, and Agrobacterium-mediated transformation are changing the production parameters of the Echinacea species. This review provides an overview of the recent developments in in vitro technologies and challenges that remain in the Echinacea biotechnology.
20065001|Cotyledonary nodes, excised cotyledons, and hypocotyl segments of six varieties of Vigna mungo and V. radiata have been tested for their morphogenic potential on media containing a range of hormonal combinations including benzyladenine, kinetin, thidiazuron (TDZ), and zeatin. Multiple shoots developed on cotyledonary node explants in all varieties tested on basal medium containing cytokinin. Presence of both the cotyledons, either full or half, resulted in a maximum number of shoots produced. Shoot bud regeneration was achieved via meristem formation on excised cotyledons on Murashige-Skoog basal medium with B vitamins supplemented with TDZ. Mature plants had normal phenotypes. V. mungo var. PS1 and V. radiata var. Pusa105 were found to be the most responsive varieties for shoot regeneration. The histology of in vitro organogenesis was studied.
4293435|Biological nitrogen fixation is the most important process in which some prokaryotic organisms fix N
20461626|The photosynthetic and carbohydrate status of an easy-to-acclimatize (EK 16-3) and a difficult-to-acclimatize (EK 11-1) genotype of Uniola paniculata L. (sea oats), a native dune species of the southeastern US, were evaluated during in vitro culture and ex vitro acclimatization. Net photosynthetic rate was eight times greater for EK 16-3 than EK 11-1 plantlets after ex vitro transfer. In vitro-produced leaves were morphologically similar to ex vitro-produced leaves and exhibited similar photosynthetic competence. EK 11-1 plantlets exhibited greater transpiration rates at the time of ex vitro transfer than EK 16-3 plantlets. However, the small magnitude of this difference, although significant, indicated that control of water loss was probably not the main cause for poor acclimatization of EK 11-1 plantlets. Carbohydrate analysis in vitro revealed that EK 16-3 plantlets utilized leaf starch reserves more rapidly than EK 11-1 plantlets. Starch utilization correlated with the development of leaves with expanded leaf blades during in vitro rooting in EK 16-3 plantlets. After ex vitro transfer, both genotypes exhibited significant decreases of starch and soluble sugar content in shoots and roots. However, the higher photosynthetic ability of shoots in EK 16-3 resulted in greater accumulation of shoot soluble sugars than EK 11-1 after 2-wk ex vitro culture. After 6-wk in vitro rooting, there were significantly higher chlorophyll and soluble protein contents, ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (rubisco) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase activities in EK 16-3 than EK 11-1 shoots. These differences also correlated with the development of anatomical and morphological leaf features in EK 16-3 similar to those of greenhouse-produced leaves.
4293323|Pollen grains of the gymnosperm species Ephedra distachya and Pinus wallichiana germinated abundantly on the in vitro cultured placentae of the angiosperm species Nicotiana tabacum, Melandrium album and Allium moly. Some P. wallichiana pollen tubes entered the micropyles of M. album. Embryological observations of cross-pollinated M. album ovules 2 or 3 d after cross-pollination revealed the presence of pollen tube remnants within the embryo sacs. Karyological disturbances in the two- and three-celled proembryos and endosperm nuclei indicated their probable hybrid origin. In some crosses, gynogenetic haploid proembryos were also noticed.
29736186|The objective of this study was to determine if the growth of sweet orange (Citrus sinensis) (L.) Osbeck cv. 'Valencia') nonembryogenic callus could be regulated and controlled via the mineral nutrient components of the medium. The 14 salts comprising Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium were subdivided into five component groups. These five groups constituted the independent fators in the design. A five-dimensional hypervolume consituted the experimental design space. Design points were selected algorithmically by D-optimality criteria to sample of the design space. Growth of the callus at each design point was measured as % increase of fresh weight at 14 d. An analysis of variance was conducted and a response surface polynomial model generated. Model validation was conducted by mining the polynomial for design points to two rergions"MS-like" growth and MS+25% growth and comparing callus growth to predicted growth. Five of the eight selected MS-like points and three of the six MS+25% growth points validated, indicating regions within the design space where growth was equivalent to MS, but the salt combinations were substantially different from MS, and a smaller region where growth exceeded MS by greather that 25%. NHNO and Fe were identifed as important factors affecting callus growth. A second experiment was conducted were NHNO and Fe were varied, thus creating a two-dimensional slice through the region of greatest callus growth and provided increase resolution of the response.
4293159| -glucuronidase (GUS) expression driven with different promoter constructs was quantitatively and histologically compared in peanut leaf tissue following microprojectile bombardment. X-Gluc staining patterns varied with the construct used. Tissues bombarded with the pAC2GUS construct had larger foci and a greater percentage of area staining blue. pEmuGN exhibited the greatest numbers of blue spots compared to pAC2GUS and pTRA140. Histological evaluations of blue staining foci showed a diffusion gradient of blue precipitate from a central, prominently-staining cell outward to as many as seven cell layers. The intensity of X-gluc product in centrally-staining cells varied. Gold microprojectile particles were usually located within the three surface cell layers. Depending on the plasmid construct, 72-90% of the centrally-staining cells had at least one gold particle. However, the presence of GUS expression did not appear to require a microprojectile within the nucleus, which was observed in 37% or fewer of the centrally-staining cells. With the pAC2GUS construct, staining patterns varied with location within leaflets and had an "edge effect," i.e., blue spots were frequently larger at the margin versus central regions. This enhanced activity could be anticipated with an actin promoter in the more mitotically active marginal leaf cells. Total GUS activity as determined by fluorometric analyses was correlated with the percentage of X-gluc stained area. The pAC2GUS construct exhibited the highest total GUS activity among the three constructs. 
4293610| A procedure for the regeneration of 'paradise tree' (Melia azedarach, Meliaceae) plants from immature zygotic embryos via somatic embryogenesis was developed. Somatic embryos were induced from explants cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 0.45, 4.54, or 13.62 M thidiazuron. Histological examination revealed that somatic embryos were induced directly from the explants. Further development of somatic embryos was accomplished with Murashige and Skoog medium at quarter-strength with 3% sucrose. A large number of plants were regenerated from somatic embryos and successfully established in soil in a greenhouse. These plants are morphologically similar to those of seed-derived plants. This system may be beneficial for mass propagation as well as for genetic manipulation of the 'paradise tree'. 
4293828| Tylophora indica (Burm. f.) Merrill is a threatened medicinal climber distributed in the forests of northern and peninsular India. An efficient and reproducible protocol for high-frequency callus regeneration from immature leaf explants of T. indica was developed. Organogenic callus formation from immature leaf pieces was obtained by using Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 7 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 1.5 M 6-benzyladenine. On this medium 92% explants produced callus. The optimal hormone combination for plantlet regeneration was 8 M thidiazuron, at which shoot regeneration was obtained from 100% of the cultures, with an average of 66.7 shoots per culture. Histological studies of the regenerative callus revealed that shoot buds were originated from the outermost regions. For root formation, half-strength MS medium supplemented with 3 M indole-3-butyric acid was used. Plants were transferred to soil, where 92% survived after 3 mo. of acclimatization. 
20065037|Movement of pests to non-host crops due to resistance of their host plants is discussed. We report the simultaneous control of the European corn borer (Ostrinia nubilalis) and protection of transgenic rice (Oryza sativa) from the damages of this non-host pest. Indica rice Basmati 370 variety was genetically engineered via the Agrobacterium-mediated system for expression of Bacillus thuringiensis (cry1Ab and cry1Ac), hygromycin resistance (hpt) and -glucuronidase (gus) genes. Molecular analysis of R0 and R1 progeny plants confirmed the integration, transcription and translation of all transgenes, with a 100% cointegration of linked genes. Southern blot analysis revealed the integration of transgenes in the range of one to three copy numbers. Northern blots revealed the presence of intact, full-length transcripts of the cry1Ab and cry1Ac. The expression of Cry1Ab and Cry1Ac was estimated up to 0.1% of total soluble protein. Inheritance of the introduced genes to R1 progeny was found to be in agreement with the Mendelian ratio in most of the transgenic lines. Bioassays, feeding of R1 progeny, of four independent transgenic lines, showed high levels of resistance to the European corn borer. Transgenic lines showed 100% mortality 5 d after the infestation in the bioassay experiments.
41318704|The ability to create artificial gene-clusters for genetic transformation could facilitate the development of crops with multiple engineered traits, or with traits which result from the expression of multiple genes. A simple method to assemble artificial gene-clusters was developed by designing a multiple cloning site consisting of an array of homing endonuclease cleavage sites into a single vector. These enzymes are also known as intron-or intein-encoded endonucleases, and have very long recognition sequences, which makes them very rare cutters. The resulting vectors are pUGA for microprojectilemediated transformation, and pUGA2 for Agrooaciermm-mediated transformation. In addition, a series of unidirectional shuttle vectors containing various combinations of homing endonuclease restriction sites was constructed. Gene cassettes can be cloned into individual shuttles, and then transferred to either pUGA or pUGA2 to construct artificial gene-clusters. To test the feasibility of this approach, a six-gene cluster was constructed and transformed into soybean via microprojectile bombardment and into tobacco via Agrobacterium. The genes were assayed for expression in both the T and T generations for three independent transgenics. Up to five of the six genes were expressed. Additional changes to the construction of individual gene cassettes may improve the frequency with which all genes in the cluster are expressed.
4293142|Ethyl methane sulphonate (EMS) is a potential mutagen to induce lincomycin resistance in Capsicum annuum. Mutagenized cotyledons were cultured on shoot regenerating medium containing lincomycin (
42568798|Lilium candidum L., commonly known as the Madonna lily, is a wild Lilium species with medicinal properties and excellent potential as an ornamental crop, but one that has been scarcely investigated. The aim of this research was to study (1) tissue culture propagation of L. candidum bulblets, (2) early bulblet development, and (3) the effect of temperature and bulblet weight on bulblet and plant growth and meristem development. An investigation of the effect of explant type and temperature on in vitro bulblet propagation showed that scales were the most efficient expiants for in vitro propagation and that exposing the regenerating bulblets to 15C for 4 wk increased bulblet weight but reduced the number of bulblets produced. For bulblets planted in soil after 12 wk of exposure to 15C or 25C, the fastest growth was observed in the bulblets that had been exposed to 15C and that had a larger initial size. Histological examination showed that young in vitro-grown bulblets had a rudimentary meristem comprising few cells with no layer organization. After 12 wk of growth, all bulblets showed a layered meristem, regardless of bulblet size or exposure to 15C. However, an increased amount of leaf primordia was detected in larger bulblets. Furthermore, the histological examination revealed that in L. candidum, as opposed to other lily species, there had been no real "phase change" in the meristem and that the phase change from juvenile to vegetative adult occurred at a much later stage in L. candidum than in other species.
4293894|Shoot cultures of apple cv. Pinova were contaminated with faint pink pigmented yeast. Yeast isolates were identified as Rhodotorula slooffiae with standard physiological methods and molecular analysis. Growth of isolated yeasts was tested against different fungicides. The following fungicides inhibited the growth of yeast isolates, and were not phytotoxic to apple shoots at concentrations lower than the minimal phytotoxic concentrations (MPC): ProClin[REGISTERED TRADE MARK SIGN] 300, mancozeb, triforine, myclobutanil, thiabendazole, mancozeb + zoxamid, and silver nitrate. Some fungicides inhibited growth of yeasts, but were phytotoxic. These included miconazole, PPM[TRADE MARK SIGN], copper sulfate, potassium sorbate, and cycloheximide. Benomyl was not phytotoxic, but was effective o nly at high doses. Decontamination of shoots was achieved using a combination of two treatments. Shoots were first soaked in half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) liquid medium containing silver nitrate (
4292952| Embryogenic suspension culture tissue of soybean (Glycine max Merrill.) was bombarded with particles coated with plasmid DNAs encoding hygromycin resistance and -glucuronidase (GUS). One to two weeks after bombardment, embryogenic tissue was placed in a liquid proliferation medium containing hygromycin. Four to six weeks after bombardment, lobes of yellow-green, hygromycin-resistant tissue, which began as outgrowths on brown clumps of hygromycin-sensitive tissue, were isolated and cultured to give rise to clones of transgenic embryogenic material. In vivo GUS assays of hygromycin-resistant clones showed that the early outgrowths could be negative, sectored, or positive for GUS activity. Transgenic, fertile plants could be routinely produced from the proliferating transgenic embryogenic clones. Southern hybridization analyses confirmed stable transformation and indicated that both copy number and integration pattern of the introduced DNA varied among independently transformed clones. Hybridization analysis of DNA from progeny plants showed genetic linkage of multiple copies of introduced DNA. An average of three transgenic clones were obtained per bombardment making this procedure very suitable for transformation of soybean. 
20461683|Node and internode explants of Mallotus repandus were precultured on basal medium (BM: Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 3% sucrose and 0.55% Agargel) for 0-18 d before culture on shoot induction Medium (SIM: BM added with 4.44 M of benzylaminopurine) for 4 wk. The cultures were subsequently transferred to BM for 4 wk for shoot elongation. Node explants precultured on BM for 14 d before incubation on SIM were at an optimum for shoot regeneration with the response rate of 95%, compared to a 21% response for the control without preculture. Internode explants precultured on BM for 16 d responded with an optimal shoot formation response rate of 69%, whereas the control response rate was 6%. The maximum shoot regeneration rates were 3.10.3 and 2.70.4 shoots/responding explant in node and internode explants, respectively. This study demonstrates for the first time that shoot organogenesis can be induced from internode explants of M. repandus. Furthermore, the results suggest that the explants need to acquire competence before shoot organogenesis. Rooting was obtained by incubation of regenerated shoots on half-strength MS with 10.74 M of 1-naphthylacetic acid for a week before culture on half-strength MS for 4 wk. Regenerated plants were successfully transferred to soil.
4293877|The study of plant viruses and their interaction with the plant host has contributed greatly to our understanding of plant biology. The recent development of plant viruses as transient expression vectors has not only enhanced our understanding of virus biology and antiviral defense mechanisms in plants, but has also led to the use of plant viral-based vectors as tools for gene discovery and production of recombinant proteins in plants for control of human and animal diseases. An overview of the state-of-the-art of viral expression systems is presented, as well as examples from our laboratory on their use in identifying nuclear targeting motifs on viroid molecules and development of therapeutic proteins for control of animal diseases.
29736215|This is the first report where shoot regeneration in strawberry cultivar Chandler has been achieved simultaneously through both somatic embryogenesis and shoot bud formation. Direct somatic embryogenesis was observed in leaf discs which were cultured on medium containing MS salts + B vitamins + 2% glucose + 18.16 M thidiazuron (TDZ) and given both chilling and dark treatment for 2 wk at 42C followed by incubation at 252C under 16-h photoperiod for third wk. After 3 wk, these explants were then subcultured on medium containing MS salts + B vitamins + 2% glucose and incubated under 16-h photoperiod at 252C for further growth and development. Direct regeneration via de novo shoot bud formation was observed in leaf disks which were given dark treatment and were cultured on medium containing MS salts + B vitamins + 2% glucose supplemented with 9.08 M TDZ. There was a synergistic effect of photoperiod, dark, and chilling treatments on somatic embryogenesis, whereas chilling treatment had an inhibitory effect on shoot organogenesis.
20064817|A system for the regeneration of spinach (Spinacia oleracea L.) from mature dry seed explants has been established. The response of two commercial spinach cultivars, 'Grandstand' and 'Baker,' was examined. Callus proliferation was most prominent on MS medium supplemented with 9.3 M of 6-furfurylaminopurine (kinetin) and 3.39 M 2,4-dichlorophen-oxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Adventitious shoot formation was observed within 8 wk after callus was transferred onto regeneration medium. Shoot regeneration was best from callus induced on 9.3 M kinetic and 4.56 M 2,4-D. The regeneration medium contained 9.3 M kinetin, 0.045 M 2,4-D, and 2.89 M gibberellic acid (GA). Shoots were rooted on hormone-free medium, and plants grown in a greenhouse showed normal phenotype. This system is beneficial in rapid propagation of spinach plants, particularly when only a limited number of seeds are available.
25623038|A rapid and efficient regeneration procedure via direct organogenesis from mature embryo axes of ten land-races of bambara groundnut has been developed. Embryo axis cultured on hormone-free Murashige and Skoog (MS; Murashige and Skoog, Physiol Plant 15:473-497, 1962) medium produced only single plants, while multiple shoots were produced at the nodal and apical regions of explants within 3-4 wk of culture on MS medium plus B5vitamins (Gamborg et al., Exp Cell Res 50:151-158, 1968) and supplemented with cytokinins such as 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP), kinetin, zeatin, and thidiazuron alone or in combination with -naphthaleneacetic acid. BAP proved to be the most effective cytokinin tested in this study. The shootforming ability of embryo axis was influenced by BAP concentration, and optimal BAP concentration was determined. Vertical orientation of explants on the medium was significantly better than the horizontal position for shoot induction. Genotypes also showed significant differences in their regeneration in terms of percent response (28.773.83-77.7010.64%) as well as an average number of shoots per explant (5.44-12.63). Regenerated shoots elongated in the same medium and rooted upon transfer to full-strength MS medium devoid of growth regulators. Regenerated plants were successfully transferred to soil and all surviving plants were morphologically normal.
23016749|Inter-specific somatic hybrids of leaf mustard (Brassica juncea) and broccoli (Brassica oleracea) were established to introduce cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) and Verticillium dahliae Kleb. resistance from broccoli to leaf mustard. Protoplasts isolated from hypocotyls and cotyledons of inbred lines of leaf mustard and broccoli were fused using 40% (w/v) polyethelene glycol and then cultured in modified k8p medium supplemented with 0.2 mg/l 2,4-dichlorophenoxi-acetic acid, 0.5 mg/l 6-benzyladenine (BA), 0.1 mg/l naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), and 0.1 mg/l kinetin (Kin), and 0.4 M mannitol as osmoticum. At the eight- to ten-cell stage, divided cells were transferred to Kao's basal medium supplemented with 0.3 M sucrose as carbon source and 0.1% agarose, 2 mg/ l BA, 2 mg/l zeatin (ZEA), 1 mg/l NAA, and 0.5 mg/l Kin for callus proliferation. After 35 d, when small calli reached 23 mm in diameter, calli were transferred to regeneration medium containing 5 mg/l ZEA and 2 mg/l indole-3-acetic acid. The chromosome numbers of putative somatic hybrids varied from 46 to 54. A total of ten plants showed a 0.5-kb, CMS-specific band, while two regenerated plants showed a missing band similar to that of leaf mustard by polymerase chain reaction amplification using Ogura CMS-specific primers. Hybrid state was confirmed by random amplified polymorphic DNA analysis. Regenerated plants had normal petals and stamens, but only two plants produced pollen and set seed.
4293454|A protocol for in vitro shoot regeneration from cotyledon explants of Citrullus lanatus (Thunb.) Matsum. & Nakai cv. Sugar Baby is described. The cotyledons excised from 7-d-old aseptic seedlings showed the highest percentage of shoots on Murashige and
20171617| Hypocotyl explants of melon (Cucumis melo L.) are capable of regenerating multiple shoots on Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium, augmented with 4.4 M benzyladenine. Regeneration from the hypocotyl is much more rapid than the more commonly reported regeneration from cotyledonary explants, producing shoots within 2 wk compared to more than a month required for cotyledon explants. The rapid regeneration response depends on the presence of a fragment of the cotyledon remaining attached to the hypocotyl. Controls were performed to ensure that the regeneration was not due to the presence of the shoot apical bud of the melon seedling after explant production. Scanning electron microscopy revealed that microsurgery to remove the apical bud left no excess bud material. Regeneration from the proximal part of the hypocotyl was due to production of a new shoot apical meristem, observed by histology. The apical meristem can be produced before leaf primordia in regeneration from the hypocotyl, in contrast to the regeneration process from the melon cotyledon. 
41432833|Chrysanthemum is one of the most important commercial cut flowers in the world. Early-flowering cultivars are required to produce quality chrysanthemum flowers with a lower cost of production. To shorten the vegetative growth phase of chrysanthemum, three AP1-like genes from Asteraceae were constitutively overexpressed in 80 independent transgenic chrysanthemum lines. All lines were characterized by PCR and RT-PCR and demonstrated that overexpression of compositae AP1-homologs in transgenic chrysanthemum under long-day conditions had no effect on plant development compared to non-transgenic controls. Conversely, under short-day conditions, transgenic plants commenced bud initiation 2 wk earlier than non-transgenic chrysanthemum plants. Subsequently, transgenic chrysanthemum flowers showed color earlier and resulted in full opening of inflorescences 3 wk prior to non-transgenic control plants.These results open new possibilities for genetic improvement and breeding of chrysanthemum cultivars.
20064955|A rapid micropropagation system was established for Holostemma annulare (Roxb.) K. Schum., (H. ada-kodien R. Br. ex Schult; Asclepiadaceae), a rare medicinal plant. Shoot tips (0.5-0.8 cm) and terminal and basal nodes (1.0-1.5 cm) harvested from actively growing shoots of conventionally raised plants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with various concentrations of 6-benzyladenine (BA) and -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Multiple shoot formation (3.8) was observed in 68% of basal nodes cultured on medium with optimum concentration of 4.43 M BA and 0.54 M NAA after 8 wk. Terminal nodes were not suitable for inducing multiple shoots. Irrespective of the orientation (vertical/horizontal), all shoot tip explants responded with a single shoot in all the combinations of plant growth regulators tried. Effects of other cytokinins (kinetin and 2-isopentenyladenine) and auxins [indole-3-acetic acid and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA)] to enhance the regeneration potential of basal nodes were analyzed. Shoots were multiplied by subculture of basal nodes and stumps (the original explant tissue free of shoots, but with remnant axillary meristem and two or three protruding buds) in a reduced concentration of BA (2.21 M) and NAA (0.27 M). Liquid medium for multiplication was found to be ineffective due to a high degree of hyperhydricity. To make the multiplication process cost effective, culture bottles with polypropylene caps were used for multiplication. The best root induction (75%) and survival (80%) was achieved on 0.5 strength MS medium supplemented with 1.48 M IBA. Field-established plants had uniform growth habit traits in terms of height of plants and number, length, and weight of the tuberous roots.
20064984|Somatic embryogenesis in American ginseng (Panax quinquefolium L.) was investigated from three explant sources (root, leaf and epicotyl) with Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing different growth regulators. Mature roots and leaves obtained from 3- to 5-yr-old field-grown plants, and seedling leaves and epicotyls from plantlets grown in vitro, were evaluated. From root and epicotyl explants, callus development was optimal with 3,6-dichloro-o-anisic acid (dicamba) (9.0 M) and kinetin (KN) (5.0 M) as the growth regulators. When these calluses were transferred after 3 mo. to dicamba alone (9.0 M), somatic embryo formation was observed at an average frequency of 15.6% in root explants after an additional 3 mo., and 2% in epicotyl explants after an additional 6 mo. No plantlets were recovered because the embryos germinated to form shoots with no roots. From leaf explants, callus growth was optimal with -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) at 10.0 M and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) at 9.0 M. Somatic embryos developed on this medium, with the highest frequency (40%) obtained after 3 mo. from seedling-leaf explants. Calluses on mature leaves formed somatic embryos after 7 mo. with NAA/2,4-D at an average frequency of 30%. Transfer of these somatic embryos to 6-benzyladenine/gibberellic acid (4.4/2.9 M) promoted shoot development but no roots were observed. Up to 100% of germination was observed within 6 wk on half-strength MS salts containing activated charcoal (1%) and on NAA/2,4-D (5.0/4.5 M) with charcoal (1%). On the latter medium, somatic embryos enlarged and frequently gave rise to new somatic embryos after a brief callusing phase. The embryos germinated through a two-stage process, involving the elongation of the root followed by the formation of a shoot. The highest recovery of ginseng plantlets from germinated embryos was 61.0%. Following transfer to potting medium and maintenance under conditions of high humidity and low light intensity, the plantlets elongated and developed new leaves. A high percentage (50%) of these plants have been acclimatized to soil.
42568800|Nodal segment explants of Ilex paraguariensis, collected from greenhouse-grown plants, were found to contain endophytic bacteria. After culturing in bioreactors, 16 rRNA gene analyses and analytical profile index biochemical tests were used to identify these bacteria as Stenotrophomonas malthophilia. The presence of bacterial cells in the intercellular spaces of stem cortical parenchyma was detected in histological sections by scanning electron microscopy. A range of commercial isothiazolone biocides were tested for their ability to repress the growth of Gramnegative bacteria grown in liquid media during the micropropagation phase. The addition of 0.75 mll Delcide TG (5-chloro-2-methyl-4-isothiazolin-3-one + 2-methyl-4-isothiazolin-3-one, 1.05% and 0.45%, respectively) to the culture media resulted in 100% visibly clean cultures, with no suppression of shoot growth.
20171632| Cell suspensions were established from calluses with embryogenic structures obtained from young male flowers of the hybrid cultivar FHIA-21 (Musa sp. AAAB group). Different concentrations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid tested produced similar tendencies in all cases. In the subsequent phase, these cell suspensions then formed somatic embryos with best results at a cell density of 20%, forming 799.5  2.5 embryos from only 200 l of cell suspension. However, germination was best with embryos produced at 15% cell density. Plant recovery frequencies were as high as 81.5% in this case. Regenerated plants were taken to the acclimatization phase for conversion and future evaluation on somaclonal variation. 
4293794|Eighteen imbibition treatments with differing parameters of light conditions, temperature and duration were applied to jack pine seeds. After imbibition, embryos were excised and cultured in a liquid medium for 4 wk under continuous agitation. At the end of the culture period, the embryos were classified according to five categories: nodule-forming, callus-forming, nodule plus callus-forming, white (non-responsive), and necrotic. Our results showed variation in the in vitro responsiveness of the embryos for the three parameters of imbibition and interactions among them. Three statistical models were tested to analyze the data on nodule formation, and two of them showed that the interaction between time and temperature, and between time and the combined variable temperature/light, were significant, while the light and duration variables had a significant effect only as single factors. The different morphogenic responses observed might indicate specific metabolic requirements of the embryos for the different developmental pathways. Afterwards, nine imbibition treatments were selected to evaluate the effects of the three parameters on the cell cycle and absolute DNA amount per nucleus. Following imbibition the number of cells in the G0-G1 phase decreased compared to the cells in dry seed, while the number of cells increased in the G2 phase after all the treatments except one. The percentage of cells in the different cell cycle phases varied significantly among the treatments. DNA amount fluctuated from 35.5 to 40.37 pg per nucleus. Compared to dry seeds with 40.19 pg DNA per nucleus, embryos from four imbibition treatments showed a pronounced decrease in the DNA by 5.9-11.8%. This might indicate underreplication of DNA sequences and reflect DNA plasticity with regards to imbibition and environmental factors.
42568878|This study aimed to establish whether protocormlike bodies (PLBs) of hybrid Cymbidium Twilight Moon 'Day Light' could be cultured on paper bridges to remove tissue and medium browning and enhance growth. In addition, the effects of two antioxidants (ascorbic acid [AA] and -tocopherol [AT]) and activated charcoal (AC) on tissue and medium browning were evaluated. Half-PLBs were cultured on Whatman No. 1 paper bridges in 10 ml of medium containing AC, AA, or AT. The production and development of new PLBs was inferior to that on standard agar-based solid medium when half-PLBs were used. The addition of 1 g/l AC, 10 mg/l AA, or 25 mg/l AT did not affect the formation of new PLBs from half-PLBs, but tissue or medium browning was also not observed. Encapsulated PLBs developed from half-PLBs germinated on medium containing AC or antioxidants. This research provides a simple but effective chemical means, through the use of AC or antioxidants, of avoiding tissue or medium browning without negatively impacting the growth and productivity of orchid PLBs. The use of paper bridges, however, significantly reduced PLB-related growth and development parameters relative to agar-based medium.
20171629|To determine the degree of insect resistance in transgenic plants, different bioassays are used which typically use either whole plants or small pieces of leaves or stems of transgenic plants, following culture under greenhouse conditions. An in vitro insect-feeding bioassay is presented which permits the infestation of transgenic plantlets with newly hatched larvae from the striped stem borer. The bioassay consists of the germination of rice seeds in vitro using Murashige and Skoog medium in test tubes, and then infestation of each 3-4 cm long seedling with one neonate larva obtained from surface-sterilized eggs of Chilo suppressalis. The infested in vitro plantlets are kept in culture rooms at 25C for several days and then the seedling damage and the growth of the larvae are analyzed. Senia (japonica variety) homozygous transgenic rice plants were used for these experiments. The plants were transformed with either the cry1B or the maize proteinase inhibitor (mpi) genes. Both genes confer resistance to Chilo suppressalis. With non-transformed plants the larvae grew and developed normally, feeding on the small rice plantlets. In contrast, with cry1B plants, the neonate larvae died during the first days of the infestation. These plantlets recovered completely and developed similarly to the non-infested control plants. With transgenic plants transformed with the mpi gene, the neonate larvae did not die but grew more slowly compared with the controls. Thus, this in vitro insect-feeding bioassay is a rapid and easy method to detect the resistance of cry and mpi transgenic plants to stem borers such as Chilo suppressalis.
29736166|The in vitro culture responses from different explants of a race-specific resistant cultivar (Red Mexican) and a race-susceptible cultivar (Palmea) to halo-blight pathogen (Pseudomonas syringae pv. phaseolicola) were studied. Two kinds of filtrate obtained from a phaseolotoxin producer wild type and a non-producer mutant of P. syringae pv. phaseolicola race-7 were used. Callus formation of Red Mexican was significantly reduced in the presence of phaseolotoxin. Bud-shoot growth was more sensitive than callus formation to other metabolites present in the pathogen filtrate, but the presence of phaseolotoxin in the media showed a positive correlation between resistance to halo blight race-7 pathogen and bud-shoot growth. Our results indicate that differential in vitro responses are influenced by the plant genotype and by the metabolite composition and concentration of the filtrate.
4293510|Creeping bluestem (Schizachyrium scoparium (Michx.) Nash var. stoloniferum (Nash) J. Wipff) embryogenie callus growing on solid medium was used to establish a cell suspension culture in Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with
4293082|In order to identify the physiological and biochemical events leading to the negative effects of the presence of sucrose in culture medium on the photosynthetic capacity of plantlets cultivated in vitro, time course changes in photosynthesis, metabolite pool sizes, and ribulose-l,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (EC 4.1.1.39) activity were investigated in strawberry (Fragaria x ananassa Duch. cv. Kent) plantlets following their transfer to medium with or without sucrose. When the plantlets grown in medium without sucrose were transferred to a similar medium with
4293705|Degradative changes in tissue during protoplast isolation were a contributing factor to low protoplast yields in the salt-sensitive Grevillea arenaria (R. Brown) and the salt-tolerant Grevillea ilicifolia (R. Brown). Protein and malondialdehyde content decreased significantly during the protoplast isolation procedure. Acid and neutral proteases were identified, and high acid protease activities were correlated to low protoplast yields. Acid phosphatase, catalase, polyphenol oxidase and lipoxygenase activities increased in both Grevillea species with cell wall digestion. High activities of catalase and low levels of polyphenol oxidase were correlated with high protoplast yields. Levels of acid phosphatase and lipoxygenase were not good indicators of final protoplast yields. The addition of the anti-oxidant, reduced glutathione, and the acid protease inhibitor, pepstatin A, significantly increased protoplast yields. Strategies were identified to minimize deleterious degradative effects during the isolation of protoplasts, including strict pH control, testing a number of cell wall digestion enzymes, and the addition of anti-oxidative metabolites and protease inhibitors.
4293593|Cryptic gene regulatory elements are inactive at their native locations in the genome but are fully functional when positioned adjacent to genes in transgenic plants. Although they are widespread among diverse organisms, they have not yet been described in gymnosperms. tCUP is a strong constitutive cryptic promoter from tobacco that harbors transcriptional enhancers, a TATA-less core promoter, and a translational enhancer. tCUP is active in all conifer species tested including white spruce, white pine, Loblolly pine, larch, and Douglas fir. The tCUP enhancers are fully active in white spruce in combination with the tCUP or 35S core promoters. The core promoter is proportionally stronger in white spruce than in angiosperms. It is dependent on an Inr sequence at the transcription start site; however, a cryptic core promoter was found in the tCUP leader sequence that harbors another potential Inr site. The leader sequence is essential for full tCUP activity in white spruce and it can be combined with other promoters, such as the 35S promoter, to elevate activity further. Stable and constitutive expression of tCUP is demonstrated in transgenic trees of white spruce. tCUP provides an alternative system for the expression of cloned genes in conifer species.
4293475|An efficient protocol was developed to regenerate entire plants from immature embryos of elite genotypes of rye as a prerequisite to plant transformation. Three winter genotypes and one spring genotype were tested using both immature and mature embryos as explants. Four types of callus initiation media and five kinds of regeneration media were tested in all possible combinations. Immature embryos gave much higher levels of plant regeneration than mature embryos, but mature embryos could be induced to regenerate plants for all genotypes and media tested, although at low levels. A minimum stage of embryo development must be reached before embryos can be cultured successfully. Genotypic effects were less pronounced than those reported for inbred cereal species such as wheat and barley, but there was an effect of genotype on percentage of callus formation. There was a significant interaction between genotype and initiation media. Composition of the initiation media affected both the percentage of callus formation from embryos and subsequent frequencies of plant regeneration. Composition of the regeneration media had no effect on level of plant regeneration. Immature embryos of all genotypes tested could be induced to produce 90-100% callus on appropriate initiation media and all regenerated shoots from approximately one-half to three-quarters of the calluses produced.
23016695|In this study, the D-serine ammonia lyase (dsdA) gene from Escherichia coli was evaluated as a selectable marker for maize transformation. Plants are incapable of utilizing the D-form of most amino acids, and D-serine has recently been demonstrated to be phytoinhibitory to plant growth. D-Serine ammonia lyase detoxifies D-serine via a substrate-specific reaction to pyruvate, ammonia, and water. D-Serine inhibits germination of isolated maize immature embryos and growth of embryogenic callus from wild-type plants at concentrations about approx. 215 mM. Transgenic plants were recovered in the presence of D-serine in tissue culture media with dsdA as the selection marker at efficiencies comparable to using a mutated acetohydroxy acid synthase selection marker gene and selection in the presence of imidazolinone herbicides. Immature embryos infected with an Agrobacterium strain containing an acetohydroxy acid synthase gene construct without dsdA did not yield any transgenic events on the selection medium with 10 mM D-serine, indicating that D-serine provided selection tight enough to prevent escapes. Molecular analysis confirmed the integration of the dsdA gene into the genome of the transgenic plants. No adverse phenotypes were observed in the greenhouse, and expression of the dsdA marker had no affect on agronomic characteristics or grain yield in multi-location field trials. Seed compositional analysis demonstrated no significant differences in the contents of seed protein, starch fatty acids, fiber, phytic acid, and free amino acids between transgenic and non-transgenic control plants. These data indicate that the dsdA gene is properly expressed in maize and the D-serine ammonia lyase (DSDA) enzyme functions appropriately to metabolize D-serine during in vitro selection. Preliminary safety assessments indicated that no adverse afffects would be expected if humans were exposed to the DSDA protein in the diet from an allergenicity or toxicity perspective. The dsdA gene in combination with phytoinhibitory levels of D-serine represents a new and effective selectable marker system for maize transformation.
4293154| Two sugarbeet (Beta vulgaris L.) genotypes, REL-1 and REL-2, were used to measure the level of somatic embryo and shoot production from hormone-autonomous callus plated under varied nutrient medium combinations of abscisic acid with the growth regulators 6-benzyladenine, 1-naphthaleneacetic acid, or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, with eight sole nitrogen sources, or with different sucrose concentrations. Clone REL-2 produced embryos up to 35-fold more frequently than clone REL-1. Inclusion of abscisic acid at some concentrations consistently improved embryo production in all experiments and was observed to stimulate shoot production. At some concentrations, 1-naphthaleneacetic acid as well as urea and glutamine stimulated greater embryo production over the control, but only for REL-1, for which there was greater room for improvement. Three and five percent sucrose were superior to 1, 7, and 9%. Higher initial 6-benzyladenine concentration [in the range 0, 0.1-1.0 mg/L (0.44-4.44 M)] was associated with lower embryo production but greater shoot regeneration for both clones. REL-2 was significantly better than REL-1 in shoot regeneration. The range of embryo production was more than 35-fold between genotypes, whereas the range of physiological effects was no greater than 10-fold. REL-2 has been released to sugarbeet researchers because of its superior embryogenic and shoot regeneration abilities for application in biotechnology. 
4293657|Cotyledons excised from seedlings of Cajanus cajan (pigeonpea) were grown on media containing cytokinins (6-benzyladenine, zeatin, and zeatin riboside) and an allied compound, thidiazuron. With the exception of zeatin riboside, initial response in terms of induction of organized structures was very high. However, subsequent regeneration of shoots from cotyledon explants was very poor. Anatomical studies on the regenerating explants were undertaken to study the pattern of morphogenesis. Cytokinins and thidiazuron induced divisions in the epidermal and sub-epidermal cell layers leading to the formation of primary protrusions on the surface. This was followed by the development of foci of high meristematic activity either on the surface or within the primary protrusions. These foci differentiated into embryo-like structures or shoot meristem-like structures. Mostly aberrant shoots, with poorly developed apical meristems, regenerated from these structures.
4293534|The relationship between in vitro bulbification and peroxidase activities of garlic (Allium sativum L.) was studied. Two stages could be distinguished during in vitro bulb formation characterized by the peroxidase activity, isoenzymatic patterns especially of the soluble fractions, dry weight, and bulbification index (BI). The first stage, called the morphogenic stage, started after planting until 30 d of culture with a maximum soluble peroxidase activity, BI = 1-0.5 and low dry weight. At that time axillary buds preformed at the base of the leaves grew and the in vitro bulb was generated. The second stage (filling in and bulb maturation) started when the BI reached 0.5 at 30 d of the ontogenic cycle, as a result of the bulb assimilate accumulation phenomenon. During the morphogenic stage the soluble peroxidase activity was maximun and the zymograms showed higher intensity bands. The second stage presented anodic ionic peroxidases and substantial increase in staining of the anodic covalent peroxidase fraction. The putative role of the different isoforms of peroxidases in relation to the bulbification process is discussed.
25623013|A simple and efficient method for multiplication of vanilla (Vanilla planifolia) was developed using in vitro fragmented explants (IFEs) as propagules. IFEs were obtained after dissecting apices from in vitro propagated clusters of plantlets, by cutting the remaining base of these plant clusters into segments of about 1 cm in length. After 4 months of culture on multiplication medium, 100% of IFEs produced up to 15 new shoots per explant, providing an efficient additional method for in vitro propagation of vanilla that maximizes the use of available material. Cryopreservation of apices from in vitro grown plants was achieved using the droplet vitrification protocol. Maximum survival (30%) and further regeneration (10%) of new shoots were obtained for apices derived from clusters of in vitro plantlets produced from microcuttings through a three-step droplet vitrification protocol: 1-d preculture of apices on solid MS medium with 0.3 M sucrose; loading with a 0.4 M sucrose + 2 M glycerol solution for 20-30 min; and exposure to plant vitrification solution PVS3 for 30 min at room temperature. Even though the cryogenic protocol needs to be optimized to improve results, this work represents the first successful report of cryopreservation of vanilla apices.
20064868|By use of a method for regenerating wheat plants (Triticum aestivum L.) from cells from long-term suspension culture, the chromosome complement and stability of cultured cells of cv. Mustang were examined. Massive chromosome restructuring and genomic rearrangements were detected by HCl-KOH-Giemsa banding techniques. Chromosome structural variations involved mainly heterochromatin and centromeric regions. These included B genome chromosome elimination; heterochromatin amplification; megachromosomes and extrachromosomal DNA particles; translocations and deletions; telocentric, dicentric, and multicentric chromosomes; and somatic pairing and crossing over. At least 65 break-fusion sites were identified. Most of the sites were located in the B genome chromosomes (42 sites, 64.6%); 36.9% (20 sites) were located in the A genome chromosomes; and the fewest (3 sites, 4.6%) were detected in the D genome. Most of the chromosome break-fusion is in the heterochromatin and centromeric regions. The B genome chromosomes appeared to be eliminated nonrandomly, and the stability of the genome may vary among the genotypes and depend on culture duration. We also checked chromosome number of 1-year-old shoot-competent cells. Only 20% of the cells still had 2n = 42 chromosomes. Most of the cells (60%) were hyperploid. These observed variations describe the types of tissue-culture-induced variations and suggest the unsuitability of using wheat cells from long-term cultures for genetic transformation experiments.
24596343|The effects of Ca on antioxidative enzymes and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) oxidase during adventitious rooting were investigated in mung bean (Vigna radiata). CaCl significantly promoted the formation and growth of adventitious roots. EGTA (a Ca chelator) or ruthenium red (a Ca-channel blocker) significantly inhibited root formation and growth, but these inhibitory effects could be partially reversed by CaCl. Furthermore, inclusion of 5 mM CaCl significantly increased superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity by 10% at 3 h and catalase (CAT) activity by an average of 29.6% at each time point. CaCl decreased peroxidase (POD) activity by 9.4% and 21% at 12 and 24 h, respectively, and ascorbate peroxidase (APX) activity by an average of 13.9% at each time point. These CaCl-induced changes in enzymatic activities were similar to changes caused by indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). Treatment with EGTA or ruthenium red decreased SOD activity by an average of 18.4% and 15.2%, respectively; POD activity by 27.4% and 57.6%, respectively; APX activity by 10.3% and 15.6%, respectively; and CAT activity by 19.3% and 5.2%, respectively, when compared with CaCl. In addition, CaCl increased IAA oxidase activity by an average of 5.5% beginning at 6 h, whereas EGTA significantly decreased IAA oxidase activity by 29.2%, 22.9%, and 13.5% at 6, 9, and 12 h, respectively. The inhibitory effects of EGTA could be partially suppressed by addition of CaCl. These results imply that the stimulative effect of Ca on adventitious rooting is partially related to Ca-induced changes in the activities of antioxidative enzymes and IAA oxidase.
20541056|Micropropagation has been achieved in a promising larvicidal asteraceous taxon Spilanthes acmella L. using seedling leaf explants. The explants were reared on a variety of growth regulators, namely 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 1-naphthalene acetic acid, Indole-3-butyric acid, N-benzyladenine, and kinetin either alone or in combination on Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium. The best green and compact callus was obtained on 1 M NAA and 10 M benzyladenine (BA) in 15 d. The callus on subculture to the same but fresh medium after every 30 d differentiated an average of 12.900.32 shoot buds in 50% cultures. Elongation in shoot buds occurred only if they were transferred to NAA lacking MS+BA medium. An average number of 4.220.83 shoots and 150.84 shoot buds per explant were obtained in 70.3% cultures on MS + 10 M BA in 30 d. One hundred percent excised shoots rooted in MS(1/2)+0.1 M IBA within 2 wk. The plants were gradually hardened and established in soil where they flowered and set viable seeds. The regenerated plants were morphologically similar to the field grown plants and showed 100% larvicidal activity against malaria and filarial vectors.
4293431| The xylose isomerase genes (xylA) from Thermoanaerobacterium thermosulfurogenes and Streptomyces rubiginosus were introduced and expressed in three plant species (potato, tobacco and tomato) and transgenic plants were selected on xylose-containing medium. The xylose isomerase genes were transferred to explants of the target plant by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The xylose isomerase genes were expressed under the control of the enhanced cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and the ' translation enhancer sequence from tobacco mosaic virus. In potato and tomato, xylose isomerase selection was more efficient than the established kanamycin selection. The level of enzyme activity in the regenerated transgenic plants selected on xylose was 5-25-fold higher than the enzyme activity in control plants selected on kanamycin. The xylose isomerase system enables transgenic cells to utilize xylose as a carbohydrate source. In contrast to antibiotic or herbicide resistance-based systems where transgenic cells survive on a selective medium but non-transgenic cells are killed, the xylose system is an example of a positive selection system where transgenic cells proliferate while non-transgenic cells are starved but still survive. The results show that a new selection method is established. The xylose system is devoid of the disadvantages of antibiotic or herbicide selection, and depends on an enzyme which is already being widely utilized in specific food processes and that is generally recognized as safe for use in the starch industry. 
40793216|This study investigated the induction and in vitro alkaloid yield of calluses and protocorm-like bodies (PLBs) from Pinellia ternata (Thunb.) Berit (Araceae). We planned to use this material in future studies related to the mass production of medicinally valuable compounds and regulation of alkaloid metabolism. Different combinations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 6-benzyladenine (6-BA), kinetin (Kin), and a-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) were used to induce callus and PLB formation from P.ternata tuber expiants. The results showed that three physiologically distinct calluses were induced by different combinations of 2,4-D, 6-BA, and Kin used in this study. The calluses differed in color, texture, differentiation status, and alkaloid content. The alkaloid content of the three calli types ranged from 0.0175% to 0.0293%. In comparison, the alkaloid content of field-grown tubers was 0.0072%. Many reports have indicated that 2,4-D suppresses the biosynthesis of secondary metabolites; however, our results show that 2,4-D promoted alkaloid production in Pinellia calluses. The combination of NAA+ 6-BA induced PLB formation. The PLB alkaloid content of 0.0321% was 1.1 to 1.8 times higher than the alkaloid content of the calluses and 4.5 times higher than the field-grown tubers. In conclusion, the induction of calluses and PLBs with alkaloid content greater than that of field-grown tubers indicates the potential use of these tissue culture materials for bioprocessing alkaloids from P. ternata and for the study of alkaloid metabolism.
4293604| The Scientific Research Center of Yucatn (CICY, for its Spanish acronym) was founded in November 1979 as part of an effort to decentralize scientific activities from Mexico City. Several of the research programs carried out at CICY make use of plant tissue culture techniques for their development. For this article, we have reviewed results obtained in research projects oriented towards basic plant biology questions, as well as towards the micropropagation of economically important species, and the production of secondary metabolites. 
4293058|Bacterial isolates from contaminated mint shoot cultures were characterized and identified as a preliminary step in determining an elimination treatment. The 22 bacteria were characterized using biochemical and morphological tests and subjected to sensitivity tests with four antibiotics. The isolates were compared with known organisms and assigned to genera according to similarities in characteristics. Seven isolates were analyzed by fatty acid analysis carried out by a commercial laboratory. Six were classified as Agrobacterium radiobacter; eight as Xanthomonas; one each as Pseudomonas fluorescens, Micrococcus spp., Corynebacterium spp., and Curtobacterium spp.; four could not be assigned to genera. Inhibition of growth of the bacteria by most antibiotics was best at pH 7.5. Minimal inhibitory concentration and minimal bactericidal concentrations of gentamicin, rifampicin, streptomycin sulfate, and Timentin varied with genotype.
23016588|Spanish territories contain many of the hot spots of plant biodiversity among European countries. Most of the Spanish territory is found in the Mediterranean basin and in the Canary Islands, a region of great floral singularity and diversity (Macaronesian bioregion). Therefore, an important effort must be made to contribute to its conservation. Several strategies can be considered, but seed conservation under standard conditions is the most resource-efficient method. However, the application of this methodology is not always possible for recalcitrant seeds or species for which vegetative propagation is necessary or convenient under some circumstances. Micropropagation is one of the measures suggested for preserving endangered species. During the 1990s, several in vitro culture protocols for Spanish endemics were established. The main purpose of this strategy was to obtain a considerable number of individuals to reduce the loss of natural populations. Likewise, diverse slow growth protocols were developed for this material. However, these efforts usually did not lead to the establishment of in vitro collections. The advantages and disadvantages of the in vitro conservation strategy will be reviewed for some cases. The establishment of the in vitro protocols together with the development of cryopreservation techniques created the ideal conditions to generate cryogenic collections. In this paper, we review the knowledge and experience accumulated during the last decades in micropropagation, slow growth, and cryopreservation for Spanish plant wild species. Their application in the development ex situ collections and their contribution toward an integrated system to conserve threatened species will be discussed.
23016747|Particle bombardment has been used for soybean transformation for more than 20 yr, but the integration and segregation of transgene inserts in the soybean genome have not been clearly documented. Over the past 5 yr, we processed several hundred transgenic events. In each experiment, the expression cassettes of the gene of interest (GOI) and hygromycin selectable marker gene (SMG) were co-bombarded into soybean at a 1:1 molecular ratio. More than 75% of hygromycin-resistant events also carried the GOI. Molecular analysis of transgenic plants revealed that most events carried multiple inserts of the GOI and the SMG. The GOI and the SMG were linked in selfed T1 and T2 progeny. Segregation analysis of progeny indicated that, in over 98% of the transgenic events, the multiple inserts of the GOI were integrated into the same genetic locus resulting in a 3:1 segregation ratio. Furthermore, the multiple inserts of the GOI are transmitted into succeeding generations, and no recombinants were found. These data indicate that in soybean plants, co-bombarded genes are preferentially integrated and stably segregated as a single genetic locus.
4293727|Triiodobenzoic acid (TIBA), an anti-auxin, was found to inhibit both shoot and root formation in cultured excised leaf explants of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.). The shoot formation (SF) medium used required only exogenous cytokinin
4293463|Improved in vitro tissue culture systems are needed to facilitate the application of recombinant DNA technology to the improvement of sugar beet germplasm. The effects of
4293354| Propagation and conservation of four pharmaceutically important herbs, Ocimum americanum L. syn. O. canum Sims, (hoary basil); O. basilicum L. (sweet basil); O. gratissimum L. (shrubby basil); and O. sanctum L. (sacred basil) was attempted using synthetic seed technology. Synthetic seeds were produced by encapsulating axillary vegetative buds harvested from garden-grown plants of these four Ocimum species in calcium alginate gel. The gel contained Murashige and Skoog (MS) nutrients and 1.1-4.4 M benzyladenine (BA). Shoots emerged from the encapsulated buds on all six planting media tested. However, the highest frequency shoot emergence and maximum number of shoots per bud were recorded on media containing BA. Of the six planting media tested, both shoot and root emergence from the encapsulated buds in a single step was recorded on growth regulator-free MS medium as well as on vermi-compost moistened with half-strength MS medium. Rooted shoots were retrieved from the encapsulated buds of O. americanum, O. basilicum, and O. sanctum on these two media, whereas shoots of O. gratissimum failed to root. The encapsulated buds could be stored for 60 d at 4C. Plants retrieved from the encapsulated buds were hardened off and established in soil. 
40981340|Type II maize callus of the Hill genotype can be separated into regenerable and non-regenerable types based on the visible morphology of the callus. When the nonregenerable morphotype of callus initiated 6 mo or a yr earlier was treated with from 2% to 20% polyethylene glycol (PEG; 3,350 molecular weight) for three subculture periods of 21 d each, the morphotype changed to regenerable, and the callus did become highly regenerable. The PEG treatments did not improve the plant regeneration ability of the regenerable morphotype or of an old culture initiated 4 yr earlier.
20064835|The objectives of the present research were: a) to develop an efficient soybean embryogenic regeneration system characterized by a high frequency of explant response and a large number of somatic embryos per explant; b) to evaluate the factors affecting somatic embryogenesis via somatic embryo cycling; and c) to identify the origin of somatic embryos in the system. A highly improved and efficient system for soybean somatic embryogenesis was established using somatic embryo cotyledons and somatic embryo hypocotyl/radicle explants plated on -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) supplemented MS basal media. The system included somatic embryo cycling between liquid and solid medium and it consistently gave rise to a much higher frequency of explant response and a larger number of embryos per responding explant than those obtained from zygotic cotyledon explant tissues. Genotype differences were observed for response in some of the treatments with cv "Fayette" being more responsive than "J103". Histological studies revealed that somatic embryos induced in the somatic embryo cycling system originated almost exclusively from epidermal cells on both 2,4-D and NAA inductive media. The cells of the epidermis proliferated to produce somatic embryos directly without an intervening callus phase. A single-cell origin of somatic embryos was observed in cultures on a 40 mg/liter 2,4-D treatment. A large number of responding cells in the epidermis was also observed in the 10 mg/liter NAA treatment. The single-cell origin of somatic embryos from epidermal layers of the explant tissues should facilitate development of an efficient transformation system for soybean.
23016693|Salinity is one of the most serious abiotic stresses affecting crop productivity worldwide. Improving tolerance to salinity in field crops is globally important because a majority of the world population relies on salt-sensitive crops such as rice, corn, and wheat for their daily calories. Although there is no salt stress sensor yet identified, different signaling components and tolerance mechanisms have been substantiated to a great extent in a glycophyte like Arabidopsis, and more recently in a few halophytes. With the rapid advances in genetics, genomics, and biochemical and transformation tools, it is now possible to explore the genetic and molecular basis of the unusually high level of salt tolerance in halophilic plants. We will focus on a halophyte grass, Spartina alterniflora, commonly known as smooth cordgrass, which possesses all known mechanisms of salt tolerance and subsequent exploitation of its genome information for crop improvement. A number of candidate genes encoding transcription factors, ion transport, osmoprotectants, antioxidants, detoxifying enzymes, etc. have been identified. Although recent efforts to develop salt tolerant cultivars that could retain the halophytic traits through transgenesis show some promise, further exploration is needed to test the contribution of single or multiple salt stress-related genes or regulatory factors from halophilic plants, including S. alterniflora, for possible utilization in crop improvement.
23016614|In general, plant material grown in vitro has low photosynthetic ability to achieve positive carbon balances. Therefore, a continuous supply of carbohydrates from the culture medium is required, and sucrose has been the most commonly used carbon source. In this paper, we investigate the effects of different sucrose concentrations and the presence and absence of light on the endogenous levels of soluble carbohydrates and starch as well as on the proliferation and growth of Dendrobium Second Love (Orchidaceae) in vitro. The possibility of using etiolated stem segments as a means for micropropagating this hybrid was also verified. The results obtained indicated that the presence and absence of light and the sucrose concentrations used influenced the amounts of soluble carbohydrates and starch and the proliferation of D. Second Love shoots and roots. An increase in sucrose concentration caused a progressive increase in the amounts of total carbohydrates and starch. Under both light conditions, sucrose was the main sugar found in the shoots followed by glucose and fructose. The addition of sucrose to the culture medium up to 2% and 4% was advantageous to the number of shoots produced per explant and the root longitudinal growth in the presence and absence of light, respectively. Shoot and root dry matter and the number of roots formed per explant increased as sucrose concentration was raised up to 6% in both light treatments. The use of dark-grown shoot segments proved to be a useful and reliable alternative for the micropropagation of this hybrid.
20461727|Multiple shoots were induced on stem segments of an 8-y-old plant of Metrosideros excelsa Sol ex Gaertn. "Parnel". Axillary shoots produced on uncontaminated explants were excised, segmented, and recultured in the same medium to increase the stock of shoot cultures. The Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium, augmented with different concentrations of 2- isopenthenyladenine (2iP) and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), either singly or in combinations, as potential medium for shoot multiplication by nodal segments was tested. In the following experiment, equal molar concentrations of four cytokinins [2iP, kinetin, zeatin, and N-benzyladenine (BA)] in combination with equal molar concentrations of three auxins [IAA, -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA)] were tested for ability to induce axillary shoot development from single-node stem segments. The highest rate of axillary shoot proliferation was induced on MS agar medium supplemented with 1.96M 2iP and 1.14M IAA after 6 wk in culture. Different auxins (IAA, IBA, and NAA) were tested to determine the optimum conditions for in vitro rooting of microshoots. The best results were accomplished with IAA at 5.71M (89% rooting) and with IBA at 2.85 or 5.71M (86% and 86% rooting, respectively). Seventy and 90 percent of the microshoots were rooted ex vitro in bottom-heated bench (22  2C) after 2 and 4 wk, respectively. In vitro and ex vitro rooted plantlets were successfully established in soil.
4293332|Free radicals have an important role in the metabolism and development of aerobic organisms; however, their uncontrolled production leads to oxidative stress. This paper explores the possibility that free radical-mediated stress has a role in tissue culture recalcitrance. In the context of this paper, recalcitrance is considered to be the inability of plant tissue cultures to respond to culture manipulations; in its broadest terms, this study also concerns the time-related decline (i.e. in vitro aging) and loss of morphogenetic competence and totipotent capacity. Studies on a diverse range of in vitro plant systems have shown that tissue cultures produce free radicals, lipid peroxides and toxic, aldehydic lipid peroxidation products. Levels of these compounds vary in response to different tissue culture manipulations, but their production is enhanced during dedifferentation and antioxidant profiles also vary throughout different phases of culture. A hypothesis is presented which suggests that tissue culture manipulations cause major metabolic and developmental changes, some of which may predispose in vitro cultures to increased free radical formation. If antioxidant protection is compromised, oxidative stress ensues and free radicals and their reaction products react with macromolecules such as DNA, proteins and enzymes, causing cellular dysfuction and, as a result, the cultures become recalcitrant.
4293233|Leaf expiants of Sinningia speciosa were cultured in vitro on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium with various growth substances in order to regenerate shoots. On MS medium supplemented with indoleacetic acid (IAA) and kinetin, 80% of the expiants produced green callus and 25 to 30 shoots with roots per explant. On MS supplemented with IAA and N
20461588|This study describes a protocol for in vitro propagation of Chonemorpha grandiflora (Roth) S.M. & M.R. Almeida (Apocynaceae) through axillary bud proliferation and rooting. For shoot induction, the combination of 13.3 M N-benzyladenine (BA) and 2.46 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium was better than other growth regulators. Liquid medium was superior over solid medium for root formation and growth. IBA was more effective than other auxins for root induction. Addition of silver nitrate in the presence of IBA significantly increased the number, length, and branching of roots. Shoot tips encapsulated in medium containing 0.49 M IBA and 11.7 M silver nitrate exhibited 95% conversion to plantlets. This protocol enables the production of 250 plantlets from a single nodal explant within 7 mo. Plantlets showed 90% survival after acclimatization in soil and were morphologically similar to the source plant under field conditions.
20064956|Somatic and zygotic embryos of soybean cv. Jack were analyzed for soluble carbohydrate, total lipids, and protein during development. Zygotic embryos accumulated trace amounts of fructose, galactose, and galactinol, whereas somatic embryos contained only trace amounts of galactose. Somatic embryos accumulated much higher glucose levels than zygotic embryos. Both somatic and zygotic embryos contain low levels of sucrose, myoinositol, and pinitol. Raffinose and stachyose accumulated in the late developmental stages of zygotic embryos, but only stachyose was found to accumulate in the late stage somatic embryos. Zygotic embryos contained low total lipid levels up to 50 d after flowering (DAF) and then the levels increased to 16% by 55 DAF and 21% at 65 DAF. Somatic embryos had low levels of total lipids throughout development with the maximum of only 4.7%. Soybean zygotic embryos contained about 40% protein throughout development, while the protein concentration of somatic embryos decreased from 44% to 25% as maturation approached. These studies demonstrate that the composition of Jack zygotic embryos is similar to that described for other cultivars during development while the somatic embryo composition and size is markedly different. The low somatic embryo germination often noted might be due to the abnormal development as shown by a composition different from that of mature zygotic embryos. The low concentration of the raffinose series sugars might be especially important factors.
25623033|Cardamom (Electtaria cardamomum Maton) has great commercial value as a spice crop in India. A one-step protocol for direct regeneration of plants and in vitro conservation by slow growth method has been developed. A maximum of 6.5 shoots/culture were obtained in 2 mo or 15.1 shoots/culture in 4 mo on Murashige and Skoog (Physiol Plant 15:473-497, 1962) medium (MS)+5 M benzylaminopurine gelled with 0.7% agar (micropropagation medium). Rooting also occurred simultaneously on the same medium. Using one shoot tip or nodal explant, about 30,375 plants can be regenerated in a year on the micropropagation medium. In vitro conservation by slow growth method was achieved on 1/2 MS (major salts)+5 M BAP +0.7% agar (conservation medium); about 70% of the cultures survived up to 18 mo at 252C. Successful regrowth of plants on micropropagation medium was obtained by culturing nodal explants excised from 18-mo-old conserved plants. Some 96% of the plants survived the hardening treatment and grew normally in a greenhouse. If 24 cultures are conserved on the conservation medium, it is possible to regenerate at least 750 plants by using explants derived from 70% of the surviving shoots and culturing the same in micropropagation medium for 4 mo. These plants may be used for planting or as a source of explants for the next conservation cycle. On the basis of 20 random amplified polymorphic DNA and 13 inter-sample sequence repeat primers analyses, no significant reproducible variation was detected among the in vitro-conserved plants compared with the mother plants.
23255676|The ability of salicylic acid and NaCl to induce programmed cell death by disturbing ionic homeostasis was investigated using tomato suspension culture cells. NaCl (300 mM) and salicylic acid (1 mM) inhibited cell growth and caused cell death within 1 wk of exposure. Treatment with NaCl increased the production of reactive oxygen species and the permeability of plasma membrane, but it also led to a reduction in the pH of the culture medium and resulted in a disturbance in ionic homeostasis of the cells. Salicylic acid-induced cell death in tomato suspension culture was also accompanied by production of reactive oxygen species and increases in both electrolyte leakage and pH of the culture media. However, reactive oxygen species production was not significantly different in cultures treated with a lethal salicylic acid concentration and 100 mM NaCl, in which most of the cells survived. A decrease in the K + /Na + ratio was observed only in those cell cultures in which the salicylic acid treatment induced the death of cells. These results suggest that the decrease of the intracellular K + concentration and K + /Na + ratio is a common phenomenon in triggering programmed cell death by lethal concentrations of salicylic acid and NaCl.
20064872|Salix tarraconensis Pau ex Font Quer, an endemic willow species from northeast Spain, was micropropagated with nodal segments. Shoot multiplication was obtained with different cytokinins, either on Murashige and Skoog medium or woody plant medium. Best results for shoot formation were obtained on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 4.9 M of 6---dimethylallylaminopurine. Shoots showed strong apical dominance, and some cultures displayed apical necrosis. Benzyladenine gave the worst results; shoots displayed very slow growth, deformed leaves, and hyperhydricity. Good rooting of shoots was obtained with different auxins or without plant growth regulators on woody plant medium. The best results (90-100%) were obtained within 20 d. On rooting media with indole-3-butyric acid or indoleacetic acid, shoot elongation was good (35-40 mm length). Apical necrosis was observed in elongating shoots on rooting medium, but this disturbance favored axillary bud sprouting and formation of new shoots. Shoot length and quality of roots decreased gradually as the concentration of naphthaleneacetic acid increased. Plant survival was 90% 4 weeks after removal from in vitro conditions.
4292973|The influence of various osmotic agents (carbohydrates) on the morphogenesis and growth of callus of Actinidia deliciosa cv Hayward was studied. Sucrose supported the highest level of growth and the lowest was supported by the sugar alcohols used in the experiments (glycerol, mannitol, sorbitol). The growth and survival of callus were evaluated with different osmotic sources in media containing glycerol, mannitol, or sorbitol at a concentration of 0.2 M each for an extended period of eight subcultures (360 days). Two crucial points were identified: until the third subculture (135 days) the vitality seemed to be elevated; whereas the fifth (225 days) seemed to be a "point of no return" for tissues grown in glycerol and mannitol. Pretreatment with osmotic carbohydrates was shown to increase the magnitude of the morphogenetic events of callus subsequently transferred to sucrose-containing medium. Callus grown in the presence of mannitol and sorbitol showed a similar frequency of morphogenetic response. With respect to the media containing glycerol and sucrose, these induced more intense regeneration of shoots. When glycerol was present in the medium, however, we observed a synchronization of the morphogenetic response. Our results suggest that it is possible both to stimulate and to synchronize morphogenesis utilizing osmotic conditioning subcultures.
23254891|An efficient protocol for genetic transformation of rutabaga (Brassica napus var. napobrassica) cultivar "American Purple Top Yellow" was developed by optimizing several factors influencing gene delivery and plant regeneration. A two-step regeneration protocol, adapted from canola, was optimal for rutabaga regeneration using hypocotyl explants. Transient expression studies monitored by histochemical -glucuronidase (GUS) assays indicated that several factors, including Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain, cocultivation time, and cocultivation medium, affected gene delivery. For stable transformation, precultured hypocotyl explants were cocultivated with Agrobacterium cells on sterilized filter paper overlaid on callus induction medium containing 100 M acetosyringone for 6 d under a 16-h photoperiod. Selection and regeneration of transformed cells were conducted on media containing 50 mg l -1 kanamycin and 250 mg l -1 Timentin. Using this protocol, GUS- and PCR-positive transformants were obtained from 3.2 to 4.2 % of hypocotyl explants inoculated with each of the three Agrobacterium strains after 35 mo. Most transformants exhibited a normal phenotype. Southern blot analysis confirmed stable integration of the gusA transgene in T 0 plants.
4293117|In order to improve the late phases of Theobroma cacao L. embryogenesis from tissues of maternal origin, zygotic embryogenesis and somatic embryogenesis were compared, with respect to morphological, histological, and physiological parameters. Zygotic embryogenesis could be divided into three steps: (a) embryogenesis sensu stricto, (b) a growth period in which cotyledonary embryos reached their final dimensions, and (c) a maturation period in which embryos accumulated protein and starch reserves, dehydrated to a water content equal to 30%, and underwent a modification in soluble sugar composition. Monosaccharides and sucrose contents decreased to the benefit of the oligosaccharides raffinose and stachyose. The formation of somatic embryos by use of basic protocols was studied to define the limiting factors that could lie behind their poor development. Morphological abnormalities of somatic embryos, which represented 80% of the total population, were described. A histological study showed that somatic embryos lacked starch and protein reserves; moreover, their water content was much higher than that of their zygotic counterparts. Introducing a growth period into the culture protocol made for better embryo development. Adding sucrose and abscisic acid to the maturation medium was effective in increasing reserve synthesis and resulted in higher germination, conversion, and acclimatization rates.
20540988|An efficient, simple micropropagation method was developed for Alocasia amazonica using corms in semisolid and liquid cultures. Explants were cultured onto Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (Murashige and Skoog, Physiol. Plant. 15:473-497, 1962) supplemented with different cytokinins (Benzyladenine [BA, 2.22-13.32 M], kinetin [2.32-13.95 M], Thidiazuron [TDZ, 0.45-4.54 M]) and cytokinin in combination with auxins [naphthalene acetic acid (NAA, 0.54-5.37 M)/indole acetic acid (IAA, 0.57-5.71 M)/indole butyric acid (IBA, 0.49-4.9 M)]. All supplementary-induced shoot proliferation and the optimal results was on the medium supplemented with 2.27 M TDZ, which induced 5.1 shoots per explant. Among the different concentrations of sucrose (0-120 g l) tested for shoot proliferation, 30 g l was found suitable for corm cultures of Alocasia amazonica. The optimal shoot proliferation and biomass values were with the plantlets grown at 30 mol m s photosynthetic photon flux (PPF) and 25C. Liquid cultures found suitable for shoot proliferation and biomass accumulation was compared to semisolid cultures. Comparative studies of bioreactor systems [continuous immersion (with or without net) and temporary immersion in liquid media using ebb and flood] revealed that shoot multiplication and growth were greatest with the raft bioreactor system. Plantlets (cormlets) from the bioreactor were hydroponically cultured for 30 days, and 100% of plants were acclimatized successfully. The simple efficient method of production of plantlets (cormlets) is useful for large-scale multiplication of this important ornamental plant.
4293272|In vitro proliferated sentang shoots were cultured onto half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing combinations of l-naphthyleneacetic acid (NAA) and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). Sentang shoots were unable to root in the absence of both auxins. A combination of 0.5 mg NAA per and 1 mg IBA per l induced the most shoots to form roots. With the addition of 2.5 g activated charcoal per l into half-strength MS medium containing 0.5 mg NAA per l and 1 mg IBA per l, roots were more numerous and longer. Substances like gelrite and phloroglucinol and sugar content which would commonly influence in vitro rooting were inhibitory to adventitious root formation of sentang. Maximal rooting of 100% was achieved in "Culture Pack," made of fluorocarbon polymer film containing charcoal-free medium with 0.5 mg NAA per l and 1 mg IBA per l. Rooted shoots were acclimatized for 4 wk. Overall survival was 80%. These findings suggest the use of Culture Pack as the culture vessels, with 0.5 mg NAA per l and 1 mg IBA per l in half-strength MS media to effectively induce roots in sentang shoots.
4292927|The tremendous diversity in techniques, timing, and facilities used to produce woody plant microcuttings for the nursery industry can result in substantial differences in the quality and performance of the same clones, depending on the producer. Evidence suggests that relatively minor procedural discrepancies that occur during the in vitro production stages as a consequence of these different production methods can determine the survival and acceptability of the plants during subsequent production. This review tracks the influence of methodologic variables during microshoot proliferation and rooting on quality of the plant, and examines the continuing repercussions for plant performance in the ex vitro environment.
4293581| A method for the micropropagation of Zantedeschia albomaculata is presented using shoot tip proliferation onto Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with different plant growth regulator concentrations and combinations. Of the four cytokinins tested, 6-benzyladenine (BA) and thidiazuron (TDZ) were found to be more effective. An optimal concentration of BA (8.87 M) or TDZ (4.54 M) developed an average of 3.8 and 3.2 shoots per explant, respectively, but increasing concentrations of cytokinins often led to lower proliferation rate and stunted growth. Addition of auxins to the MS medium supplemented with 8.87 M BA slightly enhanced multiple shoot formation in the explants. Multiplication of six cultivars of Zantedeschia genus comprising different flower types and colors were tested and achieved using only one regeneration medium (MS + 8.87 M BA + 2.46 M IBA). Different MS medium strength, air temperature (15, 20, 25, and 30C) and light quality [fluorescent, red + blue, red and blue light provided by a LED (light-emitting diode) system] were used (without phytohormone) with the aim of stimulating in vitro shoot and root development. Half-strength MS or MS and cultures maintained at 25C were found to be equally suitable for shoot tip culture of Z. albomaculata. Shoot elongation as well as fresh and dry weight were significantly increased when cultures were kept under red or blue light. 
4293275|Plant regeneration via somatic embryogenesis was developed in two groundnut varieties. Somatic embryogenesis was induced from immature leaflets on MS medium with different concentrations of the auxins 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) in combination with 0.5 mg/l of the cytokinin BA. The highest frequency of somatic embryo formation occurred on MS medium fortified with 20 mg 2,4-D per l. Of the two auxins tested individually 2,4-D was more effective for induction of embryogenesis as well as production of embryos. Embryo development and maturation was achieved on MS medium supplemented with
4293650| In vitro propagation of Pelecyphora aselliformis, a Mexican cactus which is considered rare and is highly valued in the commercial market, was initiated using seeds as explants. The longitudinal explants from seedlings germinated in vitro were cultivated on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 8.8 M benzyladenine (BA) or 4.6 M kinetin at pH 7.0. After 120 d, each explant gave rise to five shoots and this number of shoots increased 20-25% after subculture. The hyperhydricity was similar in both media, but callus formation was lower on the medium with BA. The shoot development, in terms of epicotyl length, and fresh and dry weight after 6 wk, was also recorded. The epicotyl length was similar on shoot-forming media but the quality of shoots was better on media containing BA. In about 1 yr, 500-600 well-defined shoots were obtained. The rooting of shoots was very slow and a vigorous radical system was observed after 1 yr of culture. 
41318714|Stem nodal expiants of Paphiopedilum philippinense hybrids (hybrid PH59 and PH60) directly formed shoots when cultured on a modified half-strength Murashige and Skoog (1962) basal medium supplemented with a combination of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D; 4.52 and 45.25 M) and l-phenyl-3-(l, 2,3-thiadiazol-5-yl)-urea (TDZ; 0.45 and 4.54 M) for 6 mo. On hormone-free basal medium, the percentages of expiants with shoots were 33.3% and 0% and the shoot numbers per expiant were 1 and 0 in hybrid PH59 and hybrid PH60, respectively. In hybrid PH59, 4.52 M 2,4-D plus 0.45 M TDZ induced a higher percentage of expiants with shoots and shoot number per expiant than did the hormone-free treatment. In hybrid PH60, although 4.52 M 2,4-D and 0.45 M TDZ promoted shoot formation, the highest shoot number was found with 4.52 M 2,4-D alone. Plantlets, each having several roots, were obtained from regenerated shoots after transferring onto hormone-free basal medium for 3 mo. The plantlets were potted in sphagnum moss, and acclimatized well in a greenhouse.
42568880|The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of forced ventilation and CO enrichment (360 or 720 mol mol CO ) on the in vitro growth and development of Pfaffia glomerata, an endangered medicinal species, under photomixotrophic or photoautotrophic conditions. P. glomerata nodal segments showed substantial differences in growth, relative water content and water loss from leaves, photosynthetic pigments, stomatal density, and leaf anatomical characteristics under these different treatments. CO enrichment led to increased photosynthetic pigments and reduced stomatal density of in vitro cultivated P. glomerata. A lack of sucrose in the culture medium increased 20-hydroxyecdysone levels, but the increase in CO levels did not further elevate the accumulation of 20-hydroxyecdysone. All growth increased in a CO-enriched atmosphere. In addition, CO enrichment, with or without sucrose, gave a lower relative water loss from leaves. This finding indicates that either a photoautotrophic or photomixotrophic system in a CO-enriched atmosphere may be suitable for large-scale propagation of this species.
20171637|Tissue browning that frequently results in the early death of bamboo shoots in vitro correlated directly with polyphenol oxidase (PPO, EC 1.10.3.1) activity and inversely with titratable acidity. It was unrelated to the level of endogenous phenols. During the course of culture, timing of PPO activity paralleled that of explant browning. Browning was highest among shoots cultured in a medium of pH 8, which was consistent with the pH optimum of the bamboo enzyme. The pH optimum was first determined with the crude enzyme, then verified with two purified isozymes. Stability of the bamboo PPO was also highest at pH 10. PPO activities of the severely browning Dendrocalamus latiflorus, the moderately browning Phyllostachys nigra, and the relatively non-browning Bambusa oldhamii were inhibited strongly by ascorbic acid, cysteine, sodium diethyldithiocarbamate, and sodium sulfite. But characterization of bamboo PPO according to enzyme inhibitors was not possible because enzyme extracts of the three species gave varied responses to the traditional substances. Nutrient medium addenda of some PPO inhibitors, namely ascorbic acid, cysteine, kojic acid, and thiourea, mainly enhanced browning. However, ferulic acid at 3 mM and lower concentrations reduced the number of brown shoots per culture, although not the percentage of cultures that browned. Polyvinylpyrrolidone failed completely to suppress browning. The two purified isozymes showed different temperature optima for PPO activity: 60C and 65C. The purified isozymes displayed a substrate preference for dopamine, or a cathecol oxidase characteristic.
20064962|Chicory root, stem, and leaf tissues have the propensity to regenerate organogenetic nodules following a wounding treatment. Using histological methods, we described this phenomenon on leaves of Cichorium intybus L. cv. 'Witloof' cultivated in vitro. Nodule morphogenesis and bud regeneration from nodules were characterized with the assistance of light and transmission microscopy techniques. Semithin and ultrathin sections of leaves and nodules were prepared from nodule induction to bud regeneration phases. Starch and inulin in differentiating tissues were histochemically detected in semithin and handmade sections. Our study demonstrates that nodules are formed in direct contact with vascular bundles of the leaves. The nodules consist of organized structures: a vascular center is surrounded by a large parenchyma, which is delimited by a periderm of multiple cork cell layers. Inside the vascular center near phloem tissues, a secretory network of articulated pseudolaticifers develops. From parenchymatous cells, in the vicinity of vascular centers, endogenous buds can be induced. In this region, several cords of vessel initials formed the vascular connection between neoformed buds and vascular centers. Simultaneously, transfer cell specialization occurs near the neoformed vascular strands. Vascular centers play a major role in this kind of organogenesis. Sugar metabolism appears to be closely related to nodule morphogenetic events.
20541054|In vitro propagation of northern red oak (Quercus rubra) shoots was successful from cotyledonary node explants excised from 8-wk-old in vitro grown seedlings. Initially, four shoots per explant were obtained on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 4.4 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA), 0.45 M thidiazuron (TDZ), and 500 mg l casein hydrolysate (CH) with a regeneration frequency of 64.7% after 3 wk. Subculturing explants (after harvesting shoots) to fresh treatment medium significantly increased shoot bud regeneration (16.6 buds per explant), but the buds failed to develop into shoots. A higher percentage (73.3%) of the explants regenerated four shoots per explant on woody plant medium (WPM) supplemented with 4.4 M BA, 0.29 M gibberellic acid (GA), and 500 mg l CH after 3 wk. Explants subcultured to fresh treatment medium after harvesting shoots significantly increased shoot regeneration (16 shoots per explant). Shoot elongation was achieved (4 cm) when shoots were excised and cultured on WPM supplemented with 0.44 M BA and 0.29 M GA. In vitro regenerated shoots were rooted on WPM supplemented with 4.9 M indole-3-butyric acid. A higher percentage regeneration response and shoot numbers per explant were recorded on WPM supplemented with BA and GA, than on MS medium containing BA and TDZ. Lower concentrations of BA and GA were required for shoot elongation and prevention of shoot tip necrosis. Each cotyledonary node yielded approximately 20 shoots within 12 wk. Rooted plantlets were successfully acclimatized.
4293712|Among the established plant cell lines, tobacco BY-2 cell line is unique, as it can be highly synchronized by established procedures. Because of this reason, the cell line has become invaluable for various studies, particularly on cell cycle issues. The importance of several characteristics of the cell line, some of which have not been handled thus far, is described in this article. We also include some preliminary characterization of an auxin-autotrophic cell line 2B-13 derived from the BY-2 cell line. Thus, the repertoire using the BY-2 cell line in plant sciences is expanding. The importance of this cell line could increase further as the expressed sequence tag (EST) database of the cell line became publicly available recently. The scientific achievements on this cell line that have been accumulated in recent years are being compiled and will be published as the 53rd volume in the monograph series of Biotechnology in Agriculture and Forestry (Nagata et al., 2004); readers are referred to this source.
25623040|We studied the fulfilment of assumptions of normality and homogeneity of error variance, prior to application of analysis of variance (ANOVA), for in vitro clonal propagation data. We assessed the use of data transformations and mean values for situations when the original data did not satisfy the required assumptions. The purpose of the study was to establish whether the use of original, transformed or mean values had any effect on F values, significance levels and clonal heritability values. The F values, significance levels and values of clonal heritability obtained showed analysis of variance to be reliable, despite deviations with respect to normality and homogeneity of variance and despite the fact that samples sizes were unequal. Original data may be used for ANOVA applied to measured variables such as number of shoots per explant, length of tallest shoot, number of 1-cm segments per explant and also derived variables such as the multiplication coefficient. Frequency data can be used for analysis of variance of categorical-type variables such as apical necrosis and percentage of responsive explant. For shoot colour variables, the distributions were very skewed and the variances were very different, but even though the sample sizes were not identical in all cases, lack of homogeneity of variance did not significantly affect F values, significance levels or clonal heritability values, and thus analysis of variance may be applied to the original data. The use of original and frequency data makes interpretation of the results easier than when transformed data are used and also allows us to calculate variance components more accurately than when using mean values, which do not provide as much information. Clonal heritability values from transformed data and mean values showed differences of less than one hundredth compared with those from original data. BoxCox-transformed data showed slightly lower heritability values than those corresponding to original data, whereas clonal heritability values from both mean data and angular-transformed data were slightly higher than those obtained using original data. In clonal variability studies with single growth medium, nutritional conditions that encouraged highly unequal growth or characteristics among clones gave rise to data that were unlikely to satisfy the conditions of normality or homogeneity of variance.
20065009|Transient expression of the -glucuronidase (GUS) gene has been studied in leaf-derived embryogenic callus of sweetpotato Ipomoea batatas L. (Lam.) by electroporation. The influence of several factors including electric field strength, buffer composition, time course of transient GUS gene expression, DNA concentration, enzyme, and polyethylene glycol (PEG) treatment was examined on GUS gene expression (number of blue spots). Maximum GUS gene expression (an average of 90 blue spots/fifty mg fresh weight callus tissue) was observed after 48 h when callus pieces were preincubated with electroporation (EPR) buffer for 1 h, followed by electroporation with a single electric pulse of 500 V/cm discharged from a 960-F capacitor in the presence of 20 g DNA/ml and 8.3 l NaCl (3 M). Changing the electroporation buffer conductivity (by varying the buffer composition with low-high salt concentrations), had only slight effect on the number of blue spots. Similarly, the time course study of GUS gene expression revealed that GUS activity could be detected 12 h after electroporation with a maximum activity after 72 h (112 blue spots). Increasing the amount of DNA from 5 to 50 g/ml in the EPR buffer had a slight effect on the expression frequency (from 20-110 blue spots, and 112 blue spots with 20 g/ml). The number of blue spots was increased by enzymatic wounding of callus pieces for 10 min and by addition of 200 l PEG 4000 (15%) before electroporation. These results suggest that intact cell electroporation can be used for producing transgenic sweetpotato tissue.
4293017|We have identified a callus associated protein (CAP) as a new molecular marker for proliferative growth and early cellular differentiation in higher plants. Antiserum directed against the Sorghum callus associated protein (CAP) was employed to isolate a cDNA clone (CAP-C2) from an expression library prepared from mRNA from actively dividing cell suspension cultures of Nicotiana tabacum L. cv. xanthi. The derived amino acid sequence contained structural features of eukaryotic transcriptional factors, including three putative zinc fingers, three activator domains, and a nuclear localization signal. A fusion protein formed between part of the CAP-C2 polypeptide and Escherichia coli beta-glucuronidase specifically accumulated within the nuclei of transfected protoplasts, suggesting a nuclear localization for the CAP protein. Increased levels of expression of CAP in vivo were observed in actively proliferating tobacco tissues, whereas expression in vitro was induced when mature, differentiated explants proliferated into callus or cell suspensions. A 6.2 kb unstable mRNA and two low-abundance nuclear proteins (p66 and p68) containing epitopes encoded by CAP-C2 accumulated in plant tissues undergoing proliferative growth but were absent in mature, differentiated tissues. The corresponding genes were also present in Nicotiana sylvestris and Petunia hybrida.
4293372|In our wide-ranging research on in vitro propagation of some monocotyledonous plants, two Commelinaceae species were studied: Tradescantia fluminensis var. foliis variegatis and Tradescantia pallida. Initial cultures were established successfully using nodal and apical meristems that produced single shoots, many roots, and no callus, by utilizing growth regulator-free MS medium. Addition of growth regulators did not increase the activity of explants that produced single or multiple shoots, atypical roots, and no callus. Consecutive cultures were possible using the apical and nodal meristems of the previous generation. The behavior of the different generations in culture did not change and was similar to the initial cultures. Their growth capacity was maintained over many months, also on a growth regulator-free medium. In both species, the chromosome number in the root tips of the mother plant and all morphologically stable in vitro plantlets confirmed a constant ploidy level, in T. fluminensis 2n = 72, and in T. pallida 2n = 24.
4293546|The objectives of this research were to investigate the genetic parameters associated with the in vitro formation of somatic embryos in soybean and to determine the effect of light intensity on the embryogenic capability of F
23321165|The evaluation of the genetic stability of Prunus Ferlenain plants regenerated from cryopreserved apices was investigated. The analysis of plants recovered from frozen material was performed at the phenotypic (developmental competence), cytological (chromosomal preparations) and molecular level [random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP)]. No genetic change was detected among the plantlets regenerated from frozen apices in comparison to the non-frozen material, including leaves of the mother tree kept in an orchard and vitroplantlets regenerated from non-frozen apices. This result suggested that the procedure used for Prunus cryopreservation could be used for long-term conservation. The relevance of each strategy for the genetic stability evaluation of the cryopreserved material is discussed.
20541016|An efficient protocol for in vitro propagation of the valuable ornamental and medicinal plant Bush germander (Teucrium fruticans L.) was developed through axillary shoot proliferation. A Murashige and Skoog agar medium supplemented with benzylaminopurine (6.6 M), -naphthaleneacetic acid (0.053 M), and sucrose (3%) significantly improved the production of multiple shoots directly from nodal segment explants, resulting in an average of 2.8 shoots per segment with an average of 6.8 nodes per shoot that would be potential newly formed explants. The new shoots were developed without a marked decrease in the average height of the shoots. Shoots treated with 2.5 M indole-3-butyric acid showed the highest average root number (7.9) and the highest percentage of rooting (94%). Plantlets were hardened off and transferred to jiffy pots for acclimatization under greenhouse conditions, resulting in a 100% survival rate.
4293711|Plant proteins, when used as dietary protein, are generally incomplete in nutrition due to their deficiency in several essential amino acids, for example, lysine and tryptophan in cereals and methionine and cysteine in legumes. Attempts to breed crops with increased levels of lysine and methionine have been less than satisfactory. Modern biotechnology offers alternative approaches for rectifying this nutrition deficiency. In the past decade, several transgenic strategies aimed at modifying the amino acid composition of plant proteins and enhancing the content of specific essential amino acid(s) for nutrition improvement have been developed and tested. These include synthetic proteins, modification of protein sequences, over-expression of heterologous or homologous proteins, and metabolic engineering of the free essential amino acid pool and protein sink. The progress and potential of these approaches and studies are reviewed. As plant proteins are the primary source of all dietary protein consumed by humans and animals and are inexpensive to produce in comparison with meat, improving their quality will make a significant contribution to our future food needs. The research and development in this area of interest is making promising progress towards this endeavor.
4293678|In order to establish a protocol for somatic embryogenesis of annatto, Bixa orellana L., seeds (70 d after anthesis) from field-grown orchards had their coats dissected off, and immature zygotic embryos were excised aseptically from immature seeds collected from field-grown trees and used as explants. Embryos were cultured onto MS medium supplemented with or without different combinations of plant growth regulators and activated charcoal. Direct somatic embryogenesis was induced on explants incubated either in Murashige and Skoog (MS), 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), and/or kinetin-supplemented media after 25 d of culture. The highest frequencies of embryogenesis and embryos per explant were obtained on medium containing
41496444|In vitro carotenoid pigment production in callus cultures of Calendula officinalis L. was investigated using two basal media, semi-solid versus liquid media and varied concentrations of sucrose, ammonium, and nitrate nitrogen. Of the two explants that were evaluated, floret explants were best for callus induction using Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2.0 mg 1 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid under complete darkness. Carotenoid pigment induction was significantly augmented when the sucrose concentration was increased. Low sucrose concentrations in the culture medium deferred the onset of pigment induction and reduced the overall levels of carotenoid pigments produced. The highest amount of carotenoid pigments was observed when the callus was grown on the MS medium without ammonium nitrogen. The quantity of carotenoids was slightly elevated in cultures grown on semisolid medium than those grown in liquid medium. In vitro carotenoid production was optimized by modifying the concentration of ammonium nitrogen to nitrate nitrogen in the culture medium and enhancing the sucrose concentration.
40663763|A root-derived callus line of Panax sikkimensis that stably accumulates anthocyanins was established by small cell aggregate selection method. The selected line showed a growth index of 221.36 and an anthocyanin content of 2.76 mg/g fw (7.076% dw) in 50-60 d of growth on a modified MS medium containing 4.5 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid and 1.2M kinetin under 16-h light and 8-h dark photoperiodic conditions. Incubation under continuous light increased the growth index to 435.57 but led to a marginal dilution of anthocyanin content to 2.192 mg/g fw (6.928% dw). The purple-red pigment had absorption maximum at 528 nm. The selected callus line has shown sustained growth and productivity for more than 6 yr now.Interestingly, pigment accumulation in the selected line did not hinder the ginsenoside production in the callus tissue (0.9-1.2% fw).
4293421|Adventitious buds were induced from immature embryos of Picea chihuahuana, a species from the north of Mexico. The medium was Schenk and Hildebrandt supplemented with benzyladenine and kinetin, alone or in combination with naphthaleneacetic acid and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Adventitious buds were obtained through a wide range of growth regulator concentrations, mainly from the cotyledonary region. Kinetin was more effective than benzyladenine in shoot induction. The optimum shoot induction medium contained
4293064|Tissue cultures on properly solidified Gelrite media generally showed superior shoot proliferation and rooting, as well as shoot and root vigor and callus development to those on TC agar. Vitrification, or hyperhydricity, was observed in both Gelrite and agar media and minimized by increasing the gel concentrations. Rigidity of Gelrite media depended on combined levels of MS macrosalts, basal nutrient formulations, sucrose concentration, pH, and Gelrite concentration. Most MS macrosalts increased hardness of Gelrite gels; NH
20065036|The effects of auxin concentration and photoperiod on rooting were examined with a view to establishing a rooting regime for Betula pendula shoots cultured in vitro. Optimum concentrations of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) were determined: the effects of a 16-h photoperiod and a pretreatment of 8 d total darkness were examined. Maximum rooting rates and rooting densities (root number) were achieved using relatively low levels of IBA (0.39-0.74 M). Both the dark and the light regimes produced roots, higher yields occurring with the latter. Maximum rooting percentage was reached after 30 d growth in the light-treated cultures.
25623032|The leaves of Quillaja brasiliensis, a native tree species of southern Brazil, accumulate saponins which have adjuvant activity in vaccines. An efficient micropropagation system for Q. brasiliensis was developed. Plants were obtained from aseptically germinated seeds. High rates of germination were observed on filter paper and aseptic medium substrate (sucrose and light exposure did not affect the germination response). Stem nodal segments were inoculated into Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine. Each explant produced multiple shoots, which elongated satisfactorily on the same medium. Elongated shoots were rooted in a modified MS medium with or without auxins. Best rooting responses were observed in medium containing 10 mg 1 indole-3-acetic acid under continuous exposure. The rooted explants were acclimatized and successfully transferred to soil, yielding approximately 95% survival after 10 mo. Leaf content of immunoadjuvant saponins in micropropagated plants was not affected by auxin type used for rooting and was comparable to that of field-grown trees. The results indicate that Q. brasiliensis represents an alternative and readily renewable source of biomass for the production of bioactive saponins.
4293680|Hairy roots of Brugmansia candida were exposed to different elicitors, such as pectinase, B. candida root homogenate, Hormonema ssp. homogenate, and the acetate control buffer. Pectinase increased intracellular hyoscyamine (200-300%) and the release of both alkaloids up to 1500% (scopolamine) and 1100% (hyoscyamine). However, the increment observed in both alkaloids in roots with the acetate control buffer was superior than with pectinase, obtaining increases of 700% in hyoscyamine and 200% in scopolamine. The B. candida root homogenate enhanced the accumulation (50-600%) and specific production of both alkaloids (ca. 150%). Hormonema ssp. homogenates induced different responses according to the original medium in which the fungus was cultured. The effect of each elicitor is discussed.
41432839|Bambusa balcooa is one of the most commercially important bamboo species. Regeneration of this species by sexual means is impossible because no seeds are set after flowering. Vegetative propagation is hindered due to bulky propagules, low rooting ability of the culm and branch cuttings, and seasonal specificity. This makes in v/irobased methods of regeneration important. This paper describes an efficient micropropagation protocol for multiplication of B. balcooa from nodal explants. Nodal segments were surface sterilized with 0.1% mercuric chloride for 10 min, and cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 4.4 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP), 2.32 M kinetin (Kn), and gelled with 0.2% w/v gelrite. Eighty-five percent of explants could be established in vitro with 90% of these achieving bud break. In vitro-formed shoots were successfully multiplied in MS liquid medium supplemented with 6.6 M BAP, 2.32 M Kn, 2.5% v/v coconut water, and 100 mg1; wyo-inositol. Subculturing shoots every 3 wk yielded a consistent proliferation rate of 4.11-fold without decline in vigor. Shoot clusters, containing 5 to 8 shoots, were rooted with 87.5% success in 1/2 MS supplemented with 5.71 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), 4.9 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), and 5.37 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) within 3 wk. Plants regenerated in this manner were acclimatized in the greenhouse and under a shade net with 88% success.
20064906|Fully habituated organogenic and nonorganogenic sugarbeet calluses reacted to application of the synthetic auxin [3-benzo(b) selenienyl] acetic acid by changes in growth and ethylene production. Treatment of fully habituated cells of periwinkle with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid led to the decrease of free cytokinin contents (isopentenyl adenine, zeatin riboside, and zeatin) during the late exponential phase of growth. The polyamine contents were also modified and the capacity to biotransform secologanin into ajmalicine was decreased. Treatment of the habituated periwinkle cells with zeatin greatly increased the amount of a polypeptide of 16 kDa; this response was more marked than that displayed by the auxin-dependent line. These data show that hormone-independent calluses and cell suspensions can retain some sensitivity to growth hormones. However, differences of responses were observed between the auxin-dependent lines and the habituated lines.
4293936|Suspension culture of cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.) has been an inefficient method for production of somatic embryos owing to problems with embryo maturation and conversion. Embryogenic callus of cv. Green Long was induced on semi-solid Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing
20461733|The International Association for Plant Biotechnology (IAPB) was founded in 1963 at the first truly international conference on plant tissue culture, which was organized by Philip R. White. White was a devoted internationalist and was strongly committed to global scientific cooperation. He felt that the time had come for the international tissue culture community to organize so that it could meet regularly and provide a forum to its members for the exchange of ideas and information of mutual interest and use. The various activities of the IAPB since its founding--the publication of its newsletter, its journal, and the proceedings of its quadrennial congresses--faithfully document the remarkable advances in plant biotechnology that were made possible by the successful integration of tissue culture and molecular biology. In particular, the congress proceedings serve as time capsules, providing a wealth of information about the best of science and the most prominent scientists of the time. The history of the IAPB is indeed the history of plant biotechnology.
4293290|A simple protocol for garlic in vitro management is described. It comprises a single medium for all developmental stages and genotypes tested, and the use of immature bulbs as source of axillary buds. Although genetic variability exists among the different accessions tested, for both the multiplication rate and bulblet size, acceptable values of multiplication were reached for all the accessions, and values of bulb formation approached 100% in the shoots produced.
4293889| Adventitious shoot induction and elongation was compared between root and petiole explants of Kentucky coffeetree (Gymnocladus dioicus L.) explants treated with a factorial combination of benzylaminopurine (BA) and thidiazuron (TDZ). Petiole explants initiated more adventitious shoots compared to root explants. Up to 83% of petiole explants initiated shoots compared to 67% of root explants. Maximal shoot induction was approximately 12 or five shoots per responding explant for petiole and root explants, respectively. For both explant types, TDZ was more effective than BA for shoot induction. There was an interaction between BA and TDZ on shoot induction in petiole explants, with the greatest percentage of explants forming shoots and the highest number of shoots initiated on the combination of 0.5 M TDZ plus 10 M BA and 1.0 M TDZ plus 5 or 10 M BA. In contrast, increasing concentrations of BA inhibited shoot initiation in root explants with and without TDZ. While BA inhibited shoot initiation in root explants, it promoted shoot initiation in petiole explants. In contrast, TDZ was equally effective at inducing shoots in root and petiole explants. This suggests that root and petiole explants of Kentucky coffeetree could be a useful model system for studying the differences in apparent mode of action between TDZ and BA on adventitious shoot initiation. 
20171605| Use of Hypericum perforatum L., commonly known as St. John's wort, has increased recently due to the pharmaceutical potential of hypericin, found in its leaves. Hypericin has been reported to effect a natural treatment for mild and moderate depression by increasing the concentration of neurotransmitters in the central nervous system. We have developed a novel cell culture system for in vitro growth and production of this species, suggesting a possible technology for large-scale production of hypericin. Leaf explants grown in Murashige and Skoog salts supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (0.90 M) and kinetin (0.11 M) gave maximum percentage callus formation compared to other medium treatments evaluated. Hypericin localization in cell phase and leaves was found to vary, with cell phase accumulating hypericin in special organelles and leaves accumulating it in vacuoles. Light and dark conditions, with cell aggregate size, played important roles in growth and hypericin production in cell suspension cultures. 
4293802|Black grama (Bouteloua eriopoda) and fourwing saltbush (Atriplex canescens) are important grass and shrub species in arid rangelands of the northern Chihuahuan Desert. They are naturally colonized by dark septate endophytic fungi that cannot be eliminated by seed disinfestation. Plants were regenerated from both species and appeared to be fungus-free in axenic cultures. Analysis of callus and regenerated plants of both species using dual staining with light and scanning electron microscopy revealed fungal endophytes intrinsically associated with cells, roots and leaves of regenerated plants that are also associated with native plants. Fungal layers and biofilms prevent direct exposure of callus, root or leaf tissues to the external environment. Micropropagation is a valuable tool for identifying key fungal endophytes that enhance drought tolerance in native desert plants.
4293071|The transfer of light-cultured green normal (N) and white habituated (HNO) sugarbeet callus to darkness reduced the growth of N callus and improved growth and delayed necrosis in the HNO callus. The decrease of dry matter of N callus under darkness was accompanied by a reduced content of carotenoids and by decreased CO
4293653|The species, Kniphofia leucocephala is extant at only one location, Langepan, KwaZulu-Natal in South Africa, where the population is threatened by afforestation and possibly grazing. Consequently, a continuous culture system was established as part of a program for the propagation and re-introduction of plants into the wild. The efficiency of the system in terms of shoot multiplication and, particularly, the frequency and rate of root initiation was strongly influenced by the concentration of benzyladenine in the shoot multiplication medium. The optimum shoot multiplication medium for subsequent root initiation contained
20461536|Coconut is one of the most recalcitrant species to regenerate in vitro. Although previous research efforts using plumule explants have resulted in reproducible somatic embryogenesis, efficiency is only 4 or 10 somatic embryos per plumule without or with a brassinolide treatment, respectively. In order to increase the efficiency of somatic embryogenesis in coconut, two different approaches were evaluated and reported here: secondary somatic embryogenesis and multiplication of embryogenic callus. Primary somatic embryos obtained from plumule explants were used as explants and formed both embryogenic callus and secondary somatic embryos. The embryogenic calluses obtained after three multiplication cycles were capable of producing somatic embryos. The efficiency of the system was evaluated in a stepwise process beginning with an initial step for inducing primary somatic embryogenesis followed by three steps for inducing secondary somatic embryogenesis followed by three steps for embryogenic callus multiplication, and finally production of somatic embryos from callus. The total calculated yield from one plumule was 98 000 somatic embryos. Comparing this to the yield obtained from primary somatic embryogenesis results in about a 50 000-fold increase. When compared to the yield previously reported in the literature with the use of a brassinolide treatment, it is about a 10 000-fold increase in yield. The present protocol represents important progress in improvement in the efficiency of coconut somatic embryo production.
4293596|Somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration have been achieved in Nothapodytes foetida, which is known for its rich source of anti-cancer and anti-AIDS alkaloids. Callus cultures were initiated from immature zygotic embryos cultured on Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 6-benzyladenine (BA), and kinetin. MS medium devoid of plant growth regulators favored the development of globular somatic embryos that differentiated further into plantlets. Plantlet regeneration efficiency was effectively increased on MS medium supplemented with BA. Over 90% of the in vitro plantlets survived when transferred to the soil. Alkaloids were detected in different stages of somatic embryos, regenerated plantlets, and different parts of the 2-yr-old regenerated plants. The somatic embryos contains camptothecin (0.011% dry weight, DW) and 9-methoxycamptothecin (0.0028% DW). Two-year-old field-grown plants obtained from somatic embryos were analyzed and contained higher levels of camptothecin (0.20% DW) and 9-methoxycamptothecin (0.097% DW) accumulated in roots, followed by stem and leaves. Alkaloids were quantified and identified by TLC and HPLC.
4292951|In wheat, plants may be regenerated from microspores via direct embryogenesis or organogenesis or embryogenesis from callus. Light and scanning electron microscopy were used to carefully study morphogenesis of microspore-derived plants from anther culture on modified 85D12 starch medium and to determine whether the plants were formed via organogenesis or embryogenesis. Our results indicate that plants are formed via embryogenesis from microspores. Evidence for embryogenesis included the formation of the epidermis and a suspensorlike structure (21 days after culture), followed by initiation of an apical meristem, differentiation of the scutellum, and embryo elongation. At 28 days in culture, the embryo possessed a well-developed scutellum and axis with suspensor. Embryogenesis was further confirmed by coleoptile and radicle elongation during germination when the embryos were cultured on medium supplemented with kinetin with or without coconut water. In this system, an average 67 microspores per responsive anther began cell division but only 3.69 embryos were formed per responsive anther after 6 wk. Adventitious embryos could be induced if the embryos, once formed, remained on initiation medium for 10 wk instead of being transferred to regeneration medium. Developmental stages which may be amenable to changes that could enhance plant production were identified. The potential to use this information to enhance plant production is discussed.
42568804|Croton floribundus Spreng., a native plant from South America, was utilized for in vitro micropropagation and phytochemical analyses. The effects of the addition of naphthaleneacetic acid and indole butyric acid, on the production of shoots and leaves, as well as volatile constituent production, were determined. The combination of naphthaleneacetic acid and indole butyric acid at a ratio of 1:1 led to the production of the maximum number of leaves and longest shoots after a 60-d subculture period. Analyses of leaf dichloromethane extracts using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry showed that monoterpenes and sesquiterpenes were the main chemical classes present in both in vivo and in vitro conditions. Use of these plant growth regulators in the medium-induced quantitative changes in the major monoterpenes (neral, geranial, limonene, and carvone). In vitro leaf extracts produced compounds such as carvone as well as a large amount of trans--farnesene, with the highest production of carvone (16.8%) being produced on medium supplemented with 1.0 mgL naphthaleneacetic acid. These results suggested the occurrence of biotransformation reactions of limonene and farnesyl cations in culture.
20541009|Somaclones exhibiting variations with flower characteristics were recovered from the tissue-culture-derived plants of Doritaenopsis. Two molecular techniques, random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and methylation-sensitive amplification polymorphism (MSAP) analyses, were used to characterize the somaclones. RAPD analysis, using 100 randomly selected primers, failed to differentiate variants and normal plants, even though some primers (six out of 100 primers) exhibited 6-10 distinct banding patterns. However, MSAP analysis revealed the differences in the DNA methylation patterns in the normal and variant plants which were correlated with phenotypic variation. In all, 311, 337, 366, and 343 fragments were obtained with normal and V1, V2, and V3 variant plants, respectively; each representing recognition site cleaved by either or both of the isoshizomers were amplified using 12 combination of primers. A total of 36 (11.6%), 77 (22.9%), 73 (19.9%), and 47 (13.7%) sites were found to be methylated at cytosine in the genomes of normal and V1, V2, and V3 variant Doritaenopsis plants. This study demonstrates usefulness of MSAP to detect DNA methylation events in tissue cultured Doritaenopsis plants.
4293548| St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum cv. Anthos) is a medicinal plant with historical and anecdotal evidence of efficacy as an anti-depressant. Recent research has demonstrated an active biosynthetic pathway leading to the production of the mammalian neurohormone melatonin in St. John's wort plantlets. The objective of the current study was to assess the physiological role of melatonin and related indoleamines in plant morphogenesis. In the initial experiments, two of the indoleamines, serotonin and melatonin, were supplemented to the culture medium. In subsequent research, six inhibitors of auxin and indoleamine action or transport, 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid, p-chlorophenoxyisobutyric acid, p-chlorophenylalanine, D-amphetamine, fluoxetine (Prozac), and methylphenidate (Ritalin), were included in a culture medium in the presence or absence of the auxin, indoleacetic acid (IAA). The rate of de novo root and shoot organogenesis and the endogenous concentrations of auxin and indoleamines were determined in cultured explants. Significant reductions in de novo root regeneration were found to correspond with decreases in the pool of both IAA and melatonin. An increase in the endogenous concentration of melatonin was correlated with an increase in de novo root formation, and increased serotonin levels corresponded to increased shoot formation on the explants. Our findings provide the first evidence that a balance of the endogenous concentration of serotonin and melatonin may modulate plant morphogenesis in vitro. 
20171630| A reproducible system for gene transfer in lentil through particle bombardment is presented. Lentil cotyledonary nodes excised from germinated seedlings were bombarded with a plasmid containing a mutant acetolactate synthase gene (ALS) from tobacco conferring resistance to sulfonylurea herbicides. Putative transgenic shoots regenerated on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and chlorsulfuron (5 nM for first 4 wk followed by 2.5 nM for the remainder of the culture period) were micrografted and successfully transferred to soil. T and selfed progeny plants were screened using metsulfuron herbicide leaflet painting. The non-transformed escapes died and transformed plants survived the test. The surviving plants were phenotypically normal and produced viable seeds. The presence and stable transmission of the trangene into genomic DNA of screened T transformants was confirmed by PCR and Southern hybridization. This method for producing transformed plants will allow new opportunities for lentil breeding to produce improved cultivars. 
4293232|The effect of culture temperature on the morphogenetic response of Arachis hypogaea was studied. Cotyledons were cultivated on MS medium supplemented with
4293029|Induction of somatic embryogenesis, shoot organogenesis, and subsequent plant regeneration in niger seem to be dependent on genotype, choice of explant, and composition of media growth regulators. Two distinct regeneration protocols have been developed for somatic embryogenesis and shoot organogenesis. Somatic embryogenesis was induced from epicotyls and cotyledonary explants (9 to 35%) (but not from hypocotyls and roots) in presence of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid, and 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxypropionic acid. These embryos matured in MS medium containing Kinetin plus naphthalene acetic acid (NAA), Kinetin plus Zeatin, and Kinetin plus abscisic acid (ABA). Matured embryos could be germinated on LS and MS basal media without hormones. Non-embryogenic callus initiated on Linsmaier and Skoog's (LS) medium from cotyledons of six different genotypes produced shoots (9 to 32%) on Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium fortified with 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP,
20064834|A profitable system for the establishment of morphogenic callus cultures and indirect shoot induction and development was accomplished from nodal shoot segments obtained from adult and micropropagated plants of kiwifruit (Actinidia deliciosa [Chev.] Liang and Ferguson, var. deliciosa) cv. "Hayward". The effects of medium composition, cytokinin levels, dilution of salts, and type of callus derived from the cultured primary explants were studied. Medium composition as well as type of callus greatly affected organogenic responses.
4293627|US Senator Christopher Bond joined Dr. Roger Beachy at the podium during the SIVB 2001 Congress Plenary Session on Opportunities and Challenges in Plant Biotechnology to Benefit Health and Sustainability, on June 17, 2001 in St. Louis, MO. Senator Bond presented an advocate's view regarding the benefits of plant biotechnology development. The strengths of the biotechnology regulatory system were extolled. The opportunities of this new technology to produce more and nutritionally superior food, additional plant-based medicines and vaccines, plant-based renewable sources of energy, and renewable industrial products were outlined. The benefits to the environment by adopting plant biotechnological innovations were discussed. Developing public policy regarding this new technology should be based on facts, science and reason.
20064895|Calluses from five asparagus genotypes, G14, G32, G171, G203, and G447 and hybrid Jersey Giant (JG) were incubated at three temperature regimes (24, 27, and 30 C) on embryo induction medium to assess somatic embryo development and conversion to plantlets. The calluses from three genotypes (G14, G32, and G171) were not responsive, failing to produce somatic embryos at any temperature regime. For three responsive genotypes (G203, G447, and JG), both incubation temperature and genotype significantly affected the numbers of somatic embryos produced. The calluses produced the most and the least numbers of total, bipolar, and globular embryos when incubated at 27 C and 24 C, respectively. When incubated at 27 C, G203 produced the highest numbers of total and globular embryos,
4292918| We have used microprojectile bombardment of tobacco pollen to study the DNA sequences involved in the expression of pollen-expressed genes. Promoter-reporter gene fusions constructed with the promoters of three different pollen-expressed genes from tomato (LAT52, LAT56, and LAT59) and either the -glucuronidase or luciferase reporter genes were assayed by bombarding hydrated tobacco pollen with the gene constructs precipitated onto tungsten microprojectiles. Reporter gene expression can be assayed within 30 min, with the maximal level of expression between 6 and 12 h after bombardment. By constructing and assaying promoter deletion derivatives, we have been able to delimit regions of the promoters that are necessary for high level expression in pollen. We also demonstrate that results with this transient expression system parallel the expression levels seen in pollen from stably transformed transgenic plants. The microprojectile bombardment assay can be used to rapidly test constructs for pollen expression before Agrobacterium-mediated plant transformation. Furthermore, it may be possible to adapt the microprojectile bombardment technique to achieve stable transformation of pollen. 
20065033|Factors influencing the conversion of isolated mature zygotic embryos of Pinus radiata D. Don into plantlets were investigated. Nutritional factors were critical to this conversion. The optimum medium strength was half-strength medium consisting of modified Quoirin and Le Poivre salts (von Arnold and Eriksson, 1981) and Schenk and Hildebrandt (1972) vitamins. Sucrose (3%), glucose (2-3%) and fructose (2-5%) could serve as carbon sources for this conversion. In general, a few significant benefits were found with the addition of organic nitrogen sources tested on the development of isolated embryos into plantlets. Nearly all plant growth regulators tested were not beneficial for this conversion, and some of them had a negative effect. Only gibberellic acid (GA at 0.58 M) seemed to stimulate embryos to germinate a little bit earlier in comparison with the control. Submerging the cotyledons of the isolated embryo into the agar-gelled medium led to better growth in comparison with the control. Embryos cultured in liquid medium grew better but the germination percentage was apparently lower compared with agar-gelled medium. Liquid medium with sponge support could increase the percentage of germinated isolated embryos, but the embryo growth was not comparable to the liquid medium only. The addition of polyethylene glycol 6000 to the liquid medium seemed to increase the germination percentage and had no adverse effect on the growth of isolated embryos. Light could influence embling growth in different ways.
20064808|Repeated grafting of 0.2-cm shoot tips from fruiting-age trees of Citrus reticulata Blanco 'Ponkan' mandarin and C. sinensis Osbeck 'Liu Tseng' sweet orange onto freshly germinated 'Troyer' citrange [Poncirus trifoliata (L.) Raf. X. C. sinensis Osbeck] seedlings in vitro resulted in progressive restoration of rooting competence and vigor of regenerated roots and shoots. The restored traits were retained through the course of the investigation and suggested a phase reversal phenomenon.
20461589|This study describes a protocol for the regeneration of complete plantlets of Terminalia arjuna from nodal explants of mature trees. Shoot multiplication from nodal explants was achieved by culturing on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing different concentrations of 6-benzyladenine (BA), thidiazuron or kinetin, or BA in combination with -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The best shoot multiplication response was obtained from nodal explants grown on modified MS (half-strength major salts and Fe-EDTA) medium containing 4.44 M BA and 0.53 M NAA. Seasonal variations significantly affected the proliferation potential of nodal explants and best proliferation was observed from explants collected during April to May. Microshoots were rooted on half-strength MS medium with 4.92 M IBA. The rooted shoots were acclimatized successfully.
4292950|Nodal segments from in vitro cultured Petunia hybrida were grown under varying cultural conditions. The origin of nodal explants influenced vitrification. Basal segments formed a higher percentage of vitreous shoots than did the upper nodes. A method was developed for including polyethylene glycol with Gelrite to obtain gelled media of varying water potentials. Media water potential from -0.31 to -1.2 MPa had no effect on controlling the level of vitrification. Gelrite promoted vitrification but GIBCO agar, alone or in combination with Gelrite, reduced its occurrence. Lowering media NH
20064918|Hancornia speciosa fruit is highly desired for the juice and ice cream industry in tropical regions. A rapid reduction in germination ability of H. speciosa seeds has been a problem for its large-scale cultivation. This paper describes an in vitro technique that may lead to an alternative propagation method for H. speciosa. Shoot apices and nodal segments from aseptically germinated young embryos were cultivated in vitro on Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium supplemented with growth regulators. Shoot multiplication was maintained by sequential subculture of shoot tips and nodal segments. N-benzyladenine was the most effective cytokinin for the induction of shoot growth. N-furfurylamino-purine, at various concentrations, yielded multiplication rates sevenfold lower than the highest multiplication rate found with N-benzyladenine. Increased root initiation rate and root elongation was observed with the presence of -(indole-3) butyric acid in the half-strength Murashige and Skoog culture medium, especially at 10 M. N-benzyladenine strongly inhibited rooting, even in the presence of -(indole-3) butyric acid. The in-vitro-raised rooted plantlets were acclimatized to greenhouse environment through progressive reduction in relative humidity and later transplanted to the field.
4293550| A protocol for regeneration and micrografting of shoots of lentil (Lens culinaris Medik) was developed. Multiple shoots (4-5) were regenerated from cotyledonary node explants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 8.8 M 6-benzylaminopurine. In vitro regenerated shoots were micrografted on rootstocks with 96% efficiency. The successful grafts were transplanted to pots in Redi-earth, hardened off and were grown to maturity with 100% success. The success of the micrografting was independent of the nature and concentration of growth regulator used in shoot initiation medium and the time period for induction of shoots. The protocol was successful with several cultivars of lentil. The advantages of micrografting over in vitro rooting are discussed. 
4293553|Shoot multiplication of Zingiber officinale cv.
40793156|Catharanthus roseus L. (G) Don. is an important dicotyledonous medicinal plant that produces anticancer compounds, which are used for the treatment of a wide variety of cancers. We have quantified vinblastine (a major dimeric anticancer compound) in various in vitro raised tissues; embryogenic and nonembryogenic calli, three different embryogenic stages (proliferated, matured, and germinating embryo), somatic embryo derived plantlets and in ex vitro grown plantlets by using high performance liquid chromatography. Of the various obtained callus lines and embryogenesis stages, maximum vinblastine content was found in leaf callus and in germinating embryos. The leaves of somatic embryo-derived plantlets contained more vinblastine than did Catharanthus leaves developed ex vitro. The yield of vinblastine was monitored for 30 wk. The production of vinblastine appeared to be age dependent and tissue specific; the finding of our analyses is discussed in detail.
4293241|An in vitro coculture system has been established to study interactions between roots and aphids. Eight aphid species (Aphis spiraecola P., Trama rara M., Macrosiphum euphorbiae S., Rhopalosiphum padi L., Sitobion avenae F., Rhopalosiphum maidis F., Metopolophium dirhodum W., and Pemphigus populivenae F.) were reared on six species of hairy root cultures, Carthamus tinctorius L. cv N10, Tagetes patula L., Trichosanthes cucumerina L. var anguina, Hyoscyamus muticus L., Nicotiana tabacum L., and Beta vulgaris L. subsp. vulgaris. All species of aphids survived on root cultures for at least 2 d. Three cocultures have been maintained aseptically for periods ranging from 2 mo. to over 2 yr. The coculture of R. padi on C. tinctorius cv N10 (N10-Rp) was used to study morphological and biochemical responses of roots under aphid herbivory. Aphid herbivory caused browning of cultures, reduced root vegetative growth, and increased production of polyacetylenes in C. tinctorius cv N10 roots. Our results suggest that this coculture system may improve our understanding of interactions between aphids and plant roots.
20064856|Microspore-derived embryos from Brassica napus cv. Topas (low erucic acid) and Reston (high erucic acid) were subjected to treatment with abscisic acid (ABA) during late-stage embryo development and then dried under controlled relative humidities to mature dry seed levels of moisture. Exogenously medium-supplied ABA arrested growth and development, reduced moisture content, increased total fatty acids on a dry weight basis, and stimulated synthesis of proteins in microspore-derived embryos. ABA also resulted in a higher proportion of 22:1 in cv. Reston (high 22:1) and increased the level of fatty acid unsaturation in cv. Topas (low 22:1). The accumulation of two proteins that co-migrated with cruciferin and napin on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and two-dimensional gels were also promoted by exposure to ABA, and the degree of accumulation was dependent on the concentration and time of application of ABA. Controlled desiccation of microspore embryos, used to simulate normal maturation and dehydration of zygotic embryos during seed development, did not seem to cause an increase of either storage proteins, total fatty acids, or 22:1 (in cv. Reston), suggesting that dehydration is not a prerequisite for these processes, at least in cultured Brassica embryos.
20461581|Sour orange (Citrus aurantium L.) rootstock has historically been a widely utilized citrus rootstock throughout the world due to its wide soil adaptability and superior horticultural performance. However, quick-decline isolates of citrus tristeza virus (CTV) have demolished entire industries of sour orange rootstock in some countries, including Brazil and Venezuela. CTV is presently destroying millions of trees of sour orange rootstock in Florida and threatens the citrus industries of Texas and Mexico, where sour orange is the predominant rootstock. Efforts to replace sour orange rootstock are combining traditional breeding and biotechnology approaches, including somatic hybridization and transformation. Molecular techniques have confirmed that sour orange is probably a hybrid of mandarin and pummelo. A major focus of our program continues to be the somatic hybridization of superior mandarins with pre-selected pummelo parents. Here, we report the regeneration of allotetraploid somatic hybrid plants from seven new mandarin + pummelo combinations and one new sweet orange + pummelo combination. All new somatic hybrids were confirmed by leaf morphology, ploidy analyses via flow cytometry, and random amplified polymorphic DNA analysis to show nuclear contributions from both parents in corresponding hybrids. These new somatic hybrids are being propagated by tissue culture and/or rooted cuttings for further evaluation of disease resistance and horticultural performance in field trials.
4293607|This lecture was delivered June 26, 2002, Orlando, FL, upon giving of the Society for In Vitro Biology (SIVB) Lifetime Achievement Award to Dr. Gordon H. Sato. Dr. Sato was born in Los Angeles, CA, and his family was relocated to Camp Manzanar, CA as a result of internment of American citizens of Japanese descent after the bombing of Pearl Harbor. His undergraduate training was at the University of Southern California and he obtained a Ph.D. degree at the California Institute of Technology in 1955 with Nobel Prize winner Max Delbruck. After post-doctoral training, he was Professor of Biochemistry at Brandeis University. From 1970 to 1983, Dr. Sato was Professor of Biology at University of California-San Diego. In 1982, he became director of the W. Alton Jones Cell Science Center in Lake Placid, NY. Dr. Sato is a member of the National Academy of Sciences, and has served as SIVB President and Editor-in-Chief of the SIVB journal, In Vitro Cellular and Developmental Biology - Animal. Since 1993, Dr. Sato has devoted himself full-time to the humanitarian effort called 'The Manzanar Project,' named after the camp where his family was interned. The Manzanar Project (http://www.tamu.edu/ccbn/dewitt/manzanar/default.htm) is a global action project offering simple, practical and effective solutions to the planet's most critical problems that include reduction of poverty, hunger, environmental pollution, and global warming through seawater aquaculture and silvaculture in deserts. Its working prototype is located in the Republic of Eritrea. After delivery of this lecture, Dr. Sato was named a 2002 Laureate of the Rolex Awards for Enterprise (http://www.rolexawards.com). The Rolex awards are given to visionary individuals whose unique work impacts the entire planet and human condition.
4293243|Hairy root cultures of Artemisia annua L. were cultivated in three different mist bioreactors, each fitted with three stainless steel meshes. The growth rates in the three 2.3-L mist bioreactors differed. After 25 d, the growth index (final dry weight/initial dry weight) of the roots was 42 in a nutrient mist bioreactor, 61 in an inner-loop nutrient mist bioreactor, and 68 in a modified inner-loop nutrient mist bioreactor. Under a misting cycle of 3/30 (ON 3 min/OFF 30 min) for 25 d, dry weight reached 13.6 g/L of medium in the modified inner-loop nutrient mist bioreactor in which nutrient could be supplied without dilution of mist by air flow.
41432445|Astragalus membranaceus is one of the most widely used traditional medicinal herbs in China, but the time required to generate a useful product in the field production is long. The growth of adventitious root cultures was compared between cultures grown in solid, liquid, or a 5-L balloon-type bubble bioreactor. The maximum growth ratio (final dry weight/initial dry weight) was determined for adventitious roots grown in the bioreactor. Studies carried out to optimize biomass production of adventitious roots compared adventitious root growth from various inoculum root lengths, inoculum densities, and aeration volume in the bioreactors. The maximum growth ratio occurred in treatments with a 1.5-cm inoculum root length, with 30 g (fresh weight) of inoculum per bioreactor or with an aeration volume of 0.1 vvm (air volume/culture medium volume per min). The polysaccharide, saponin, and flavonoid content of roots from bioreactor-grown cultures were compared to roots from field-grown plants grown for 1 and 3 yr. Total polysaccharide content of adventitious roots in the bioreactor (30.0 mg g"  dry weight (DW)) was higher than the roots of 1-yr-old (13.8 mg g"  DW) and 3-yr-old (2. mg g"  DW) plants in the field. Total saponin (3.4 mg g"  DW) and flavonoid (6.4 mg g"  DW) contents were nearly identical to 3-yr-old roots and higher than that of 1-yr-old roots under field cultivation.
20461734|Salinity limits the production capabilities of agricultural soils in large areas of the world. Both breeding and screening germplasm for salt tolerance encounter the following limitations: (a) different phenotypic responses of plants at different growth stages, (b) different physiological mechanisms, (c) complicated genotype  environment interactions, and (d) variability of the salt-affected field in its chemical and physical soil composition. Plant molecular and physiological traits provide the bases for efficient germplasm screening procedures through traditional breeding, molecular breeding, and transgenic approaches. However, the quantitative nature of salinity stress tolerance and the problems associated with developing appropriate and replicable testing environments make it difficult to distinguish salt-tolerant lines from sensitive lines. In order to develop more efficient screening procedures for germplasm evaluation and improvement of salt tolerance, implementation of a rapid and reliable screening procedure is essential. Field selection for salinity tolerance is a laborious task; therefore, plant breeders are seeking reliable ways to assess the salt tolerance of plant germplasm. Salt tolerance in several plant species may operate at the cellular level, and glycophytes are believed to have special cellular mechanisms for salt tolerance. Ion exclusion, ion sequestration, osmotic adjustment, macromolecule protection, and membrane transport system adaptation to saline environments are important strategies that may confer salt tolerance to plants. Cell and tissue culture techniques have been used to obtain salt tolerant plants employing two in vitro culture approaches. The first approach is selection of mutant cell lines from cultured cells and plant regeneration from such cells (somaclones). In vitro screening of plant germplasm for salt tolerance is the second approach, and a successful employment of this method in durum wheat is presented here. Doubled haploid lines derived from pollen culture of F hybrids of salt-tolerant parents are promising tools to further improve salt tolerance of plant cultivars. Enhancement of resistance against both hyper-osmotic stress and ion toxicity may also be achieved via molecular breeding of salt-tolerant plants using either molecular markers or genetic engineering.
4293056|A procedure for bulb formation from onion, garlic, and shallot explants is described. Explants from cut stem bases were cultured in shoot induction medium composed of Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with or without
20541052|The investigation deals with in vitro clonal propagation of L. aestivum L. (summer snowflake), a threatened Amaryllidaceae plant species in Bulgaria used in the pharmaceutical industry as raw material for production of galanthamine-based medicines. Plants of known origin and with different alkaloid profile were taken from the living collection of the Institute of Botany, Sofia. Bulbs were used to initiate in vitro cultures and 24 clones were multiplied. The influence of the clone origin on the propagation coefficient, shoot and bulblet morphology, alkaloid profile and content of galanthamine, lycorine, and four related alkaloids was evaluated. Clones kept stable alkaloid profiles and for most of them, high regeneration rates were noted. Galanthamine content of some clones was commensurable with that of Bulgarian populations of L. aestivum of commercial importance. Five clones: four galanthamine-type and one lycorine-type were selected as promising for further investigation.
4293861|Leaf structure along the successive stages of Early French artichoke Cynara scolymus L. micropropagation was characterized using light and transmission electron microscopy. The mesophyll presents disorganized spongy and palisade parenchyma with large intercellular spaces and a few small chloroplasts in the leaves of plants cultured in vitro. In addition, both epidermal surfaces of such leaves invariably show a cell wall of the same thickness with a very thin cuticle and open stomata. In the root differentiation stage in vitro, structural changes take place in the leaves that are favorable for survival in the acclimatization stage: conspicuous cuticle, greater cell wall thickness, functional stomata, better mesophyll organization, developed vascular bundles, and the presence of sclerenchymatous tissue are observed. These features found in later in vitro stages are maintained in the following ex vitro stages, some becoming more evident. Our results demonstrate that the structural changes required to ensure appropriate acclimatization of micropropagated artichoke plants begin at the root differentiation stage, which can reduce in vivo acclimatization time and achieve greater survival of transferred plants.
4293587|A method of micropropagation through multiple shoot formation from axillary buds of mature tree and rootstock growths of Crataeva adansonii (DC.) Prodr. (a multipurpose tree) has been developed. Factors affecting multiplication rate included season, age of explant source, explant type, type of bud, position of bud on the foliage twig, type of medium, various additives, and explant implantation on the medium. The maximum number of buds was produced from the sixth to 10th axillary buds taken from foliage twigs of 40-50-d-old rootstock growth in the months of October to December. At this time of the year the contamination was minimum. Optimum response was recorded on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 6-benzyladenine (BA;
4293827|The notion that the introduction of alien RNA into an organism can cause the silencing of endogenous genes and transgenes came to light in plants during the last decades of the 20th century. It was based on revealing virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) and on the protection against pathogenic viruses by pre-infection with less pathogenic plant viruses or components of such viruses as well as on co-suppression phenomena. The breakthrough in RNA silencing research was the discovery of Mello, Fire and associates that double-stranded RNAs (dsRNAs) can silence specifically homologous genes in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. The discovery in C. elegans, published in 1998, immediately initiated studies in protozoa, metazoa, fungi, and plants, and similar RNA silencing mechanisms, albeit with some notable differences, were subsequently revealed in almost all eukaryotic organisms in which they were looked for. Investigators dealing with the different organisms were well aware of each others' results and a very active field of study emerged within a few years. Investigators of plant RNA silencing benefited from the findings in other organisms, especially in C. elegans, Drosophila, and mammals, where the protein complexes involved in RNA silencing, such as the Dicer complex and the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC), were studied intensively. The study of RNA silencing in plants followed two avenues. In one avenue the process of initiation of endogenous dsRNA was followed, also the fate and the impact of dsRNA that was introduced into plant cells was investigated. It was found how this dsRNA is cut into ~21 nt fragments and the derived ssRNA of ~21 nt may guide the RISC to cleave specific mRNA sequences. In the other avenue the formation of 'hairpin,' or 'stem loop' RNA sequences, from transcripts of genomic sequences, was investigated. The 'maturation' of these RNA structures into mature microRNA was studied and the possible roles of endogenously formed and introduced microRNAs in the regulation of expression of plant genes were gradually revealed. This review will update the findings in these two avenues.
4293033| Exogenous putrescine (5 mM) had little effect on root or shoot formation in aseptically isolated hypocotyl segments of leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula L.) grown on full-strength B5 medium. Unexpectedly, putrescine inhibited root and shoot formation in hypocotyl segments grown on B5 medium diluted 10-fold. In the full-strength medium, root and shoot formation were inhibited by 0.5 mM concentrations of DL--difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) and DL--difluoromethylarginine (DFMA). DFMO and DFMA are inhibitors of the ornithine decarboxylase and arginine decarboxylase pathways, respectively, of putrescine biosynthesis in plants. Exogenous putrescine (0.5 to 5 mM) did not reverse either the DFMO- or DFMA-induced inhibition of shoot formation. However, the DFMA-induced inhibition of root formation was partially reversed by exogenous putrescine. The auxin, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), reduced the inhibitory effects of DFMO+DFMA (applied together) on both roots and shoots. In the first few days of culture, the endogenous levels of putrescine and spermidine, but not of spermine, increased in the presence of IAA. The levels of putrescine and spermidine in the tissues did not correlate well with either root or shoot production in the later stages of organ formation; especially in tissues treated with IAA. These results show that there were no obvious correlations between polyamine levels and organogenesis in leafy spurge hypocotyl segments, although residual putrescine or spermidine or both in the tissues at the time of excision may be indirectly involved in the early stages of root formation. 
42568809|We developed an efficient Agrobacterium-mediatQd transformation protocol for spinach (Spinacia oleracea L.) that uses root-derived callus. Evaluation of this protocol was based on the systematic evaluation of factors that influence transformation efficiency. Four of the five factors that were tested significantly affected the transformation efficiency, including spinach cultivar, Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain and density, and the duration of co-cultivation. Transgenic spinach plants were generated based on optimized conditions, consisting of callus expiants of the cultivar Gyeowoonae, A. tumefaciens strain EHA105 with OD of 0.2, a co-cultivation period of 4 d, and 100 M acetosyringone supplemented in the inoculation and co-cultivation media. After co-cultivation with A. tumefaciens, expiants were cultured in low-selective and then non-selective conditions to enhance the growth of putative transgenic expiants. Visualization of the fluorescent marker, enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP), was used to select transgenic expiants at several stages, including callus, somatic cotyledonary embryo, and plantlet. The best results for fluorescence visualization screening were obtained at the somatic cotyledonary embryo stage. On average, 24.96  6.05% of the initial calli regenerated shoots that exhibited EGFP fluorescence. The putative transgenic plants were subjected to -glucuronidase (GUS)-staining assay, phosphinothricin acetyltransferase (PAT) strip test, and molecular analyses to assess the transgene incorporation into plant genome and its expression. All EGFP-positive plants tested were confirmed to be transgenic by GUS-staining assay, PAT strip test, and molecular analyses. The transformation system described in this study could be a practical and powerful technique for functional genetic analysis and genetic modification of spinach.
4292937|Cereal leaf protoplasts are extremely difficult to culture (recalcitrant) in vitro. There have been few reports of division and the protoplasts typically exhibit excessive enlargement and vacuolization with reduced cell wall deposition. Inasmuch as leaf base explants are capable of callus formation in vitro, protoplasts derived from this tissue must have lost the ability to divide as a consequence of changes induced by the wall-digestion process. We review evidence suggesting that the inhibition of mitosis in these protoplasts is a consequence of a cascade of events initiated at the plasma membrane. The enzyme treatment necessary for wall removal triggers membrane depolarization and other changes that can lead to the initiation of lipid peroxidation and oxidative stress. Mitotically inactive cereal leaf protoplasts are unable to mount a protective response to these degradative processes. Consequently, the resulting membrane perturbations and permeabilization give rise to secondary effects on the cytoskeleton and the cell wall. These effects include reduced or absent microtubules as well as reduced and uneven wall deposition. Such abnormalities are observed in cereal leaf protoplasts and are sufficient to account for recalcitrance because the occurrence of mitosis is strongly dependent on a normal cell wall and cytoskeleton.
4293364|DNA shuffling is a technique being utilized for in vitro recombination of a single gene or pools of homologous genes. The genes are fragmented into randomly sized pieces, and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) reassembly of full-length genes from the fragments, via self-priming, yields recombination due to PCR template switching. After these PCR products are screened and the interesting products sequenced, improved clones are reshuffled to recombine useful mutations in additive or synergistic ways, in effect mimicking the process of natural sexual recombination. Proteins can be 'bred' with the appropriate individual properties and then their 'progeny' screened for the desired combination of traits. DNA shuffling is a powerful tool enabling rapid and directed evolution of new genes, operons and whole viral genomes.
4292941|Somaclonal variation for quantitative traits could affect the practical utilization of regenerants in cotton improvement. Three groups of experimental lines were derived to analyze variation, including one control group from the explant-source cultivar and two groups of R
20461640|Nodular meristematic callus was induced on the basal cut surface of apical shoot explants of salvia cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 4.5, 13.5, or 22.5 M thidiazuron (TDZ). Cultures were incubated in the dark for 1 wk and then transferred to light conditions for 4 wk. A higher percentage of explants developing callus was observed on medium containing either 4.5 or 13.5 M TDZ, although explants on 4.5 M developed larger calluses. The callus was maintained on medium containing 4.5 M TDZ and 0.45 mM ascorbic acid. Shoot differentiation, after each of three successive maintenance passages, was induced from callus grown on medium containing either 4.4 or 8.8 M benzyladenine (BA). A greater number of shoots were harvested from callus differentiated on BA (4.4 or 8.8 M) medium with 0.45 mM ascorbic acid added. Shoots developed roots on MS medium supplemented with 4.9 M of indole-3-butyric acid. The addition of ascorbic acid to the shoot differentiation medium enhanced rooting, number of roots per shoot, and survival rate. Approximately 75% in vitro plantlets were acclimatized to ex vitro conditions. Histological investigations confirmed both adventitious meristem initiation during the callus induction phase, and subsequent organogenic shoot development on the differentiation medium. The novel protocol for the meristematic callus induction and plant regeneration in this study may be useful for biotechnological applications for salvia improvement via genetic transformation or mutagenesis and in vitro propagation approaches.
4293079|Chickpea was micropropagated by axillary shoot proliferation (ASP) and modified single node culture (MSNC) methods. Maximum propagule proliferation occurred on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium enriched with
4293346|We have established an in vitro system for the induction and study of nodulation in Pachyrhizus erosus (jicama) via a hairy root-Rhizobium coculture. In vitro-grown P. erosus plantlets were infected with Agrobacterium rhizogenes (ATCC No. 15834) and two hairy root lines were established. Hairy roots were grown in a split-plate system in which compartment I (CI) contained MS medium with nitrogen and different sucrose levels (0-6%), while CII held MS medium without nitrogen and sucrose. Nodule-like structures developed in transformed roots grown in CI with 2-3% sucrose, inoculated with Rhizobium sp. and transferred to CII. Nodule-like structures that developed from hairy roots lacked the rigid protective cover observed in nodules from plants grown in soil. Western blot analysis of nodules from hairy roots and untransformed roots (of greenhouse-grown jicama) showed expression of glutamine synthetase, leghemoglobin and nodulins. Leghemoglobin was expressed at low levels in hairy root nodules.
4293753|The cucurbit family includes a number of valuable crop species (melon, cucumber, squash/pumpkin, watermelon). Much of this review is concerned with transgenic resistance to viruses, shown to be the major application of biotechnology in the cucurbit family. Progress made with the production of transgenic cucurbit crops is discussed. Published data on field tests of transgenic cucurbits are reviewed, showing that much progress has been made with multiple virus-resistant cucurbit crops which can be productive without chemical control of insect virus vectors. Modes of virus resistance in transgenic cucurbits are discussed, as is the bio-safety of such crops. For the first time a detailed analysis has been made of world-wide and US field test applications for cucurbit crops. World-wide, most field test applications were for melon (54%), followed by squash (32%). World-wide most field test applications were for virus resistance (84%), and most applications (77%) were in the USA. Two transgenic multiple virus-resistant squash crops have been deregulated (released for sale). Additionally, the analysis shows that there are transgenic multiple virus-resistant crops in all major cucurbit species already available, for which several different companies have applied for field tests. This would imply that such crops are ready to be marketed should conditions permit, which would have an impact world-wide in reduction of ecological damage due to chemical control of the insect viral vectors.
20065000|TDZ (N-phenyl-N-1,2,3-thidiazol-5-ylurea) is a substituted phenylurea compound which was developed for mechanized harvesting of cotton bolls and has now emerged as a highly efficacious bioregulant of morphogenesis in the tissue culture of many plant species. Application of TDZ induces a diverse array of cultural responses ranging from induction of callus to formation of somatic embryos. TDZ exhibits the unique property of mimicking both auxin and cytokinin effects on growth and differentiation of cultured explants, although structurally it is different from either auxins or purine-based cytokinins. A number of physiological and biochemical events in cells are likely to be influenced by TDZ, but these may or may not be directly related to the induction of morphogenic responses, and hence, the mode of action of TDZ is unknown. However, the recent approaches applied to study the morphogenic events initiated by TDZ are clearly beginning to reveal the details of a variety of underlying mechanisms. Various reports indicate that TDZ may act through modulation of the endogenous plant growth regulators, either directly or as a result of induced stress. The other possibilities include the modification in cell membranes, energy levels, nutrient uptake, or nutrient assimilation. In this review, several of these possibilities are presented and discussed in light of recently published studies on characterization of TDZ-induced morphogenic effects.
4293416| Excised tissues from transverse young stem sections of Lilium longiflorum were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with growth regulators at various concentrations. After 45 d in culture, the presence of -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) in the culture medium at 5.4 M resulted in bulblet formation while 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) at 2.2 M resulted in root formation. The presence of IBA (indole-3-butyric acid) in the culture medium at 1.0 M resulted in shoot formation while plantlet formation occurred when IBA was added at a concentration of 2.0 M. When l-phenyl-3-(1,2,3-thiadiazol-5-yl)-urea (TDZ) was added to the culture medium at 1.1 M, protocorm-like bodies (PLBs) formed, while 2.2 M resulted in shoot formation (on abaxial and adaxial surfaces). The presence of NAA and TDZ in the culture medium at 5.4 M and 0.4, 1.1 or 2.2 M, respectively, resulted in somatic embryo formation while NAA- and 6-benzylaminopurine- (BA) containing culture medium formed callus or bulblets. The establishment of different regeneration systems when explants are exposed to various growth regulators demonstrates that the choice of growth regulator combinations and concentrations are of significance in determining the morphogenetic response and plant regeneration capacity. 
4293040| Aiming at the genetic improvement of garlic cultivars, a cell suspension protocol was established which includes the induction of friable callus, establishment of cells in liquid medium, plating, regeneration, and bulb formation. Calluses of various textures from compact to friable and from green to yellowish were obtained by culturing explants excised from inner leaves of garlic bulbs on Marashig-Shoog (MS) medium with 2,4 dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4-D), (1.1 mg/liter [5.0 M]), picloram (1.2 mg/liter [5.0 M]), and kinetin (2.1 mg/liter [10 M]). Friable callus occurred on MS-A contained 2,4-D alone (1.0 mg/liter [4.52 M]) and this callus was used to develop cell suspension cultures, which were maintained in liquid MS-B medium with a 2,4-D/benzyl adenine (BA) (0.5 mg/liter [2.25 M]: 0.5 mg/liter [2.22 M]) ratio. High plating efficiency was obtained on MS-C medium with different naphthalene acetic acid/BA combinations. Regeneration occurred after transfer of the caulogenic mass to MS-C medium containing 10 mg/liter (74.02 M) and 20 mg/liter (148.04 M) adenine for 60 days, followed by transfer to adenine-free medium. Plantlets transplanted to soil showed normal phenology. Shoots grown on modified MS medium supplemented with indolylbutryic acid (3.0 mg/liter [14.7 M]) stimulated bulb formation by 30 days in culture. 
23321159|Embryogenic callus induction and plant regeneration systems have long been established for creeping bentgrass (Agrostis palustris Huds.), but little research has been reported on optimal medium for embryogenic callus induction and plant regeneration in velvet bentgrass (Agrostis canina L.), colonial bentgrass (Agrostis capillaries L.), and annual bluegrass (Poa annua L.). The present study compared 14 callus induction media and eight regeneration media for their efficacies on embryogenic callus induction and plant regeneration in these four species. The embryogenic callus initiation media contained the Murashige and Skoog inorganic salts and vitamins supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid or 3,6-dichloro-anisic acid and 6-benzyladenine. L-Proline or casein hydrolyzate was included in some media to stimulate embryogenic callus formation and plant regeneration. The frequencies of embryogenic callus formation ranged from 0% to 38% and exhibited medium differences within each of the four species. Callus induction media, plant regeneration media, and genotypes affected plant regeneration rates, which varied between 0% and 100%. The embryogenic callus induced on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 500 mg l-1 casein hydrolyzate, 6.63 mg l-1 (30 M) 3,6-dichloro-anisic acid and 0.52.0 mg l-1 (29 M) 6-benzyladenine had much higher regeneration rates than those formed on other callus induction media. Embryogenic callus of annual bluegrass had higher regeneration rates than those of bentgrass species. MSA2D, a media containing 2 mg l-1 (8 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 100 mg l-1 myo-inositol, and 150 mg l-1 asparagine, was effective in promoting embryogenic callus formation in creeping bentgrass but not in colonial and velvet bentgrasses and annual bluegrass.
20541006|Apple rootstock MM106 shoots, raised in vitro, rooted at 96.7% after culture on a medium supplemented with an auxin for 5 d in darkness followed by culture on a second medium without growth regulators for 25 d in light. In control conditions (in absence of auxin in the first medium), these shoots did not root. Putrescine (PUT), spermidine (SPD), cyclohexylamine (CHA), and aminoguanidine (AG) enhanced rooting when applied during the first d of culture in the absence of IBA; on the contrary, -difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) added to the first medium with IBA inhibited rooting. The endogenous levels of indole 3-acetic acid (IAA) and indole 3-acetylaspartic acid (IAAsp) increased up to a maximum concentration at days 2 and 3, respectively, in initial rooting conditions. PUT, when added with IBA, did not affect the typical IAA and IAAsp increase; when applied alone, it provoked an increase of their levels. Similar results were recorded with CHA. SPD, AG, and DFMO did not induce an increase of IAA and IAAsp in nonrooting conditions. The levels of endogenous PUT increased to a maximum at day 2 in rooting conditions; it was slightly affected by exogenous PUT and CHA application but reduced by SPD, AG, and DFMO. In rooting conditions, if the first medium was supplemented with SPD or AG, a small increase in peroxidase activity was observed, similar to that obtained with PUT treatment. The present work indicates an involvement of polyamines in the control of rooting and an interaction with auxins during the physiological phase of rooting. The consequence of this relationship was a different rooting expression, according especially to the content of these regulators in the culture medium.
4293322|Shoot cultures of Hedyotis corymbosa, a C3 species, and sugarcane, a C4 species, were used to examine the effects of various CO
20064846|Aeration of tissue cultured rare Australian plants Conostylis wonganensis S. D. Hopper (Haemodoraceae); Diplolaena andrewsii Ostenf.; Drummondita ericoides Harvey (Rutaceae); Eremophila resinosa F. Muell. (Myoporaceae); Eucalyptus 'graniticola' (Myrtaceae); Lechenaultia pulvinaris C. Gardner (Goodeniaceae); and Sowerbaea multicaulis E. Pritzel (Liliaceae) has been found to reduce vitrification in sensitive species as well as significantly improving shoot quality and transfer to soil in most study species. A simple 7-mm hole with a double-layer insert of filter paper in the polypropylene screw lids of the culture vessel decreased shoot vitrification over a 4-wk culture period. The method has implications for facilitating the tissue culture of other rare Australian plants and reducing the occurrence of this developmental abnormality.
29736169|This study describes the development of electrofusion techniques using the 'donor-recipient' model for the production of cybrids between common cultivated winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cv. Jinghua No. 1 and a phylogenetically remote, sexually incompatible grass species, Italian ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum Lam.), which belong to two different subtribes: Triticinae and Loliinae. Wheat protoplasts were metabolically inactivated by iodoacetamide before fusion, while protoplasts of Italian ryegrass were X-ray irradiated before protoplast isolation. The suspension cells were directly used to optimize the inactivation parameters. By exploring the minimum irreversible membrane breakdown strength, the electrofusion parameters were optimized just a few minutes before electrofusion began. A total of 108 green plantlets were obtained, and about half of the green plants uncontrollably necrotized. Among all green plants, 14 were rooted normally and transplanted in growth chamber or field and developed to maturity. All these transplanted plants were male sterile with smaller and off-white anthers. Seeds were obtained by crossing with Jinghua No. 1. Three transplanted regenerants possessed the characteristics of glume facing the rachis, which was the taxonomic characteristic distinguishing the two subtribes of Triticinae and Loliinae. Although Southern blot hybridization analysis of 33 randomly selected regenerants using a wheat ribosomal DNA probe (pHA71) did not find any differences to wheat, analysis using two mitochondrial probes B342 (cox I), 490 (Pro II) and one chloroplastidic probe pHvc P5 revealed that 31 plants were 'true cybrids' by showing ryegrass-specific band(s) or new band(s). It also showed that the mitochondria and chloroplasts were not coexistent as the restriction fragment length polymorphism band of Italian ryegrass was not detected by the mitochondrial probes 7 (26s), B342 (cox I), pHJ2-7-1 (cox II), B30 (atp9), and the chloroplast probe pHvc P5. To regenerate the cybrids, the regeneration capacity of the recipient (wheat) was crucial in this study.
4293563|To improve the efficiency of somatic embryogenesis of isolated scutella from commercial wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars, two factorial experiments were conducted to examine effects of days post anthesis (DPA), days of spike storage (DSS) at 4 C, and sucrose concentrations (SC) on the percentage of scutella producing mature embryos and the number of mature embryos produced per responsive scutellum. In the first experiment, scutella isolated from spikes collected at 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 16 DPA and stored at 4 C for 7, 10, 13, and 16 d were placed on embryo induction medium [Murashige and Skoog plus
4293505|Lilies are one of the most valuable bulbous ornamental cut flower crops and are commercially propagated by conventional scaling, which results in varied bulb quality. This article demonstrates the effectiveness of using specific organ sources in conjunction with the thin cell layer (TCL) system to establish successful organogenic and somatic embryogenic pathways in Lilium longiflorum. TCLs derived from different explant sources, such as receptacle, leaf, young stem, stem node, bulblets, pseudo-bulblets, shoot and somatic embryos, respectively, can be manipulated to form different organs. Furthermore, the choice of plant growth regulator and medium additives such as activated charcoal and sucrose strongly affect the success of the process. This article further highlights that transient transgene expression derived from either particle bombardment or Agro-infection is both strong and repeatable, as a result of the direct exposure of competent cells to the gene introduction method, resulting in a reduction of escapes. The ability to manipulate and control organogenesis through a TCL system, coupled with repeatable, efficient transformation opens up the possibility of micropropagating members of this genus with new and available characteristics, producing superior plants of high quality.
23016598|In vitro methods provide opportunities for propagating and preserving endangered plant species when seed-based methods are not adequate. Such species include those that produce few or no seeds, as well as species with recalcitrant seeds. Tissue culture propagation methods can be used to produce such plants for reintroduction, research, education, display, and commerce. They can also be the basis for tissue banking as a way to preserve genetic diversity when seeds cannot be banked. With some recalcitrant species, embryo banking, a method which also utilizes in vitro culture for recovery germination, is possible. The number of endangered species that will require in vitro methods is estimated to be at least 5,000 worldwide. Further information is needed to identify these species, and the ongoing collection of information into databases on endangered species and recalcitrant species will help provide this. The costs of these methods are higher than for traditional propagation and preservation, but they may be necessary for species under higher threat. The multiplication rate of a culture, as well as the rates of rooting and acclimatization, has a major effect on the number of transfers needed for producing plants or tissue for banking, and improvements that will increase the efficiency of these steps can help lower costs. Further research into factors affecting the growth of tissues in vitro, as well as coordination of efforts among institutions with infrastructure for in vitro work, should facilitate the application of in vitro methods to the endangered species that cannot be propagated or preserved using seeds.
41496504|Efficient shoot regeneration and Agrobacterium mediated genetic transformation systems were developed for Bacopa monnieri L. (Scrophulariaceae), a plant well known for its medicinal properties. Leaf expiants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with different concentrations of 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP), and in combination with either indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) or napthalene-3-acetic acid. A combination of BAP (17.80 M) and IAA (2.28 M) maximized shoot initiation (85.2  2.43) with greatest shoot length (2.8  0.22), and was obtained directly from leaf expiants without an intervening callus phase. Leaf segments from in vitro grown plants were co-cultivated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens LBA4404 harboring pCAMBIAHOl with -glucuronidase (uidA) and hygromycin phosphotransferase (hpt) genes. The co-cultivated expiants were transferred to selective shoot induction and elongation medium. The elongated hygromycin-resistant shoots were subsequently rooted on MS medium supplemented with 4.9 M indole-3 -butyric acid and 25 mg/l hygromycin (SSRM). Successful transformation was confirmed by monitoring histochemical GUS activity during shoot elongation and PCR analyses using uidA-and hpt-specific primers. Integration of hpt into the genome of transgenic plants was also verified by Southern blot analysis. The highest transformation efficiency achieved was 70.6%, with an average of 10.40.15 transgenic plantlets per expiant using the present transformation system. Therefore, these highly efficient and rapid regeneration and transformation systems create significant potential for engineering of B. monnieri with a view to detailed biomolecular analyses or for further enhancement of its medicinal properties. blot analysis. The highest transformation efficiency achieved was 70.6%, with an average of 10.40.15 transgenic plantlets per expiant using the present transformation system. Therefore, these highly efficient and rapid regeneration and transformation systems create significant potential for engineering of B. monnieri with a view to detailed biomolecular analyses or for further enhancement of its medicinal properties.
4292943|Cultures of Digitalis obscura L. were established from axillary buds of mature plants or leaves of seedlings obtained under aseptic conditions. Explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium containing benzyladenine and/or naphthaleneacetic acid. Shoot proliferation from axillary buds was not affected by seasonal fluctuations in the stock plants and increased relative to the cytokinin concentration, but auxin reduced the multiplication rate. Differentiation of somatic embryos and adventitious buds from cultured leaves required naphthaleneacetic acid alone or combined with benzyladenine, respectively. Cardenolide pattern and content of the regenerated plants were determined by high performance liquid chromatography and radioimmunoassay, respectively. Several cardenolides of series A and C were identified in the regenerants; no significant differences were found in the cardenolide patterns. Digoxigenin derivatives were found in all clonally propagated plants, but the amount of these glycosides was much higher in those obtained from axillary buds. This is the first report on micropropagation of D. obscura from mature plants.
41318719|Plants were regenerated by shoot multiplication from four clones of Melia azedarach L. during 12 mo. of subculturing. One hundred and one of these plants were examined by randomly amplified polymorphic DNA analysis. All regenerated plants showed at least one polymorphism. However, no chromosome number alterations were observed. The pattern of variation obtained by principal coordinated analysis showed a random distribution of variation among regenerated plants and their controls, indicating that genetic alterations were not cumulative during in vitro culture. Similar results were found using Shannon's index, which revealed that 50% of the observed diversity resided among plants coming from the same subculture generation. This high intraclonal variation does not provide a clear scenario for predicting the amount of culture time required to preserve genetic fidelity in commercially micropropagated M. azedarach plants. Our work suggests that other mechanisms, such as chimerism, contribute to intraclonal heterogeneity in vitro.
4293104|The androgenic ability of four Medicago sativa L. genotypes (Boynitza 5, Byala, 494, and 3815) was tested. Callus and organogenesis were induced in all lines studied. The percentage of anthers producing calluses and organogenesis showed wide variation (calluses-from 11% up to 77%; organogenesis-4.8% to 15.2%). It has been established that genotype, nutrient medium composition, and stage of pollen development considerably affected both callus production and organogenesis. Androgenesis in M. sativa could be achieved via callus and direct embryogenesis. About 500 morphologically different regenerants were obtained. Wide variability in chromosome number of regenerated plants was observed by cytological studies. Haploid, dihaploid, as well as mixoploid plants were obtained.
4293091|A protocol based on shoot cultures of 1-mo.-old seedlings was developed for rapid asexual multiplication of eucommia, the source of an antihypertensive medicinal. The expiant is an excised shoot tip, 3-5 mm tall. MS basal medium supplemented with 1 mg/liter BA is employed to establish primary cultures and subsequently multiply shoots. Shoots are subculturable on the same medium and can be increased at a rate of 7.5 new shoots per 2-shoot sector every 3 wk. Rooting is achieved in a Gelrite medium with the MS salts reduced to 1/3 strength and the BA replaced by 0.1 mg/liter NAA. The method is not directly applicable to mature trees. Applicability will require expiants from rejuvenated sources, possibly attainable by the method of repeated grafting of shoot apices onto juvenile rootstocks, repeated subculturing of shoots, or culturing shoot apical meristems.
4293236| The influence of a variety of parameters was investigated on polyethylene glycol (PEG)-mediated transient nptII and gus gene expression in mesophyll protoplasts of Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype, Estland, in order to develop a suitable transient gene expression system. The investigation revealed that a combination of 20% PEG, incubation time of 15 min, 20-30 g plasmid concentration per ml along with 50 g carrier DNA m/l, and inclusion of calcium and magnesium ions during transfection followed by a culture period of 24 h registered maximum NPTII activity. Of the various promoters used for driving expression of the gus gene, the ubiquitin promoter from A. thaliana was the most efficient followed by 35S promoter of the CaMV and the actin promoter of rice. For comparison, similar studies in protoplasts of rice, wheat, and Brassica also revealed the differences in strength of these promoters. Arabidopsis ubiquitin promoter was the most effective in Brassica, and the rice actin 1 promoter was the most effective in rice and wheat. 
4293658| Shoot apex, nodal, and leaf explants of Stevia rebaudiana Bertoni can regenerate shoots when cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 6-benzyladenine (BA; 8.87 M) and indole-3-acetic acid (5.71 M). Rooting of the in vitro-derived shoots could be achieved following subculture onto auxin-containing medium. A survival rate of 70% was recorded at the hardening phase on the substrate cocopeat. The presence of the sweet diterpene glycosides, viz. stevioside and rebaudioside, was confirmed in the in vitro-derived tissues of Stevia using HPTLC techniques. Callus cultured on agar-solidified MS medium supplemented with BA (8.87 M) and indole-3-butyric acid (9.80 M) showed the highest sweetener content. 
4293482|Plant survival ex vitro requires functioning stomata, adequate cuticular wax composition and deposition, and normal morphological development. Light intensity, CO
42568808|Low frequency of green plant production and albinism limits the use of isolated microspore culture (IMC) in cereal breeding programs. The present study was conducted in triticale and bread wheat IMC to increase the production of green plants and minimize albinism. NPB-99 + 10% Ficoll induction medium was supplemented with mitochondrial or plastid antioxidants, in a completely random design, to evaluate their contribution to successful microspore embryogenesis and green plant production. Each group of antioxidants was tested independently: first in triticale and then validated in various spring wheat genotypes. While the response differed by wheat genotype, induction medium supplemented with proline (10 mM) yielded a greater number of embryos/embryo-like structures and green plants in both triticale and wheat. No differences were found with respect to albinism in triticale or wheat except for the cv. Sadash. Among plastid antioxidants tested, glutathione (2 M) proved to be the best antioxidant to increase embryo and green plant production. Salicylic acid also helped to reduce the number of albino plants in triticale and the wheat genotype SWS366. Overall, induction medium supplemented with proline or glutathione enhanced microspore embryogenesis in both triticale and wheat and increased the number of green plants in the recalcitrant genotypes.
20065035|Jasmonic acid (JA) effects on in vitro tuberization of potato nodal explants cvs. Sangre and Russet Burbank were tested under liquid and solid media conditions and 0, 8, and 16 h photoperiod. Explants taken from stock plants grown on 2.5 M JA-supplemented medium tuberized first, particularly in darkness. The most pronounced benefits of the JA pretreatment were recorded under 16 h photoperiod, which is known to inhibit tuberization. Cultivar Sangre benefited from the JA preconditioning of stock plants more than Russet Burbank. Russet Burbank required the JA supplement in tuberization media to reach the same degree of stimulation. Overall, microtubers produced either from JA preconditioned stock plants or on the JA-containing tuberization media were more uniform and larger than from other treatments. Eight hours photoperiod was by far the best treatment for the production of high-quality uniform microtubers. JA conditioning of stock plants prior to taking explants for tuberization is being proposed as a treatment enhancing the quality of microtubers.
20171618| Regeneration of adventitious shoots of pothos (Epipremnum aureum Linden and Andre) 'Jade' was obtained using leaf and petiole explants prepared from shoot tips of 3-yr-old greenhouse-grown plants. Explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with thidiazuron (TDZ), 6-(4-hydroxy-3-methy-trans-2-butenyl-amino)purine(zeatin) or N-isopentenylaminopurine (2iP) individually with -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) in 18 combinations. Callus was initiated from cut surfaces and along the midrib or major vein of leaf sections. Shoot regeneration from leaf and petiole explants occurred in 30 d on medium containing 1, 5, or 10 M TDZ with 0.5 or 1.0 M NAA except petioles on medium with 10 M TDZ and 1.0 M NAA where regeneration failed. More time (50 d) was needed for shoot regeneration when explants were cultured on medium containing either 2iP or zeatin with NAA. Regeneration frequencies were up to 20% and 50% for leaf and petiole explants, respectively. Shoot numbers per responding explant attained 30 for leaf and petiole explants on medium containing TDZ but only one to four on medium containing either 2iP or zeatin. These results indicate that TDZ is a more effective cytokinin for in vitro regeneration of pothos than either zeatin or 2iP. Shoots elongated readily and rooted well on MS basal medium without plant growth regulators. Plantlets acclimatized rapidly and grew vigorously in the greenhouse after transfer to pots containing a commercial potting medium. 
4292949|Micropropagated plants both from angiosperms (bamboo, birch, eucalyptus, tamarind, teak, willow) and gymnosperms (Douglas-fir, loblolly pine, Monterey pine, and redwood) have been established in the field. Plantlets were regenerated from juvenile explants (via adventitious or axillary buds) as well as explants from mature trees [apical and axillary buds (nodal segments)]. Plantlets regenerated from adventitious buds tend to show early maturation traits (Douglas fir, loblolly pine, Monterey pine). A population of selected clones showed superior performance and yield over seedlings derived from the same trees. Increased biomass production was obtained with plantlets derived from tissue culture of Eucalyptus spp. when compared to seedlings. No morphologic variation was observed in micropropagated plants. Plantlets derived from tissue culture grew very uniformly. Early flowering was observed with plantlets derived from tissue culture (tamarind, teak).
4293308|Somatic embryos initiate and develop directly from single mesophyll cells in in vitro-cultured leaf segments of orchardgrass (Dactylis glomerata L.). Embryogenic cells establish themselves in the predivision stage by formation of thicker cell walls and dense cytoplasm. Electron microscopy observations for embryos ranging from the pre-cell-division stage to 20-cell proembryos confirm previous light microscopy studies showing a single cell origin. They also confirm that the first division is predominantly periclinal and that this division plane is important in establishing embryo polarity and in determining the embryo axis. If the first division is anticlinal or if divisions are in random planes after the first division, divisions may not continue to produce an embryo. This result may produce an embryogenic cell mass, callus formation, or no structure at all.
4293788|Scientific photography is an important facet of plant tissue culture. The aim of photography in plant tissue culture should be to illustrate clearly the developmental stages occurring in vitro. However, the photographic results presented in publications are often poor, and morphogenetic responses are often not clearly documented. Plant tissue culture is a very visual science, and the valuable tool of photography is often not used properly. If the morphogenetic responses are not well documented, an important part of the research is missed, and the report ends up having limited scientific value. Simple methods for improving the results of photography in plant tissue culture are discussed, along with photographic equipment, photomacrography, stereophotomicrography, suitable backgrounds for photography, use of a digital scanner, and the construction of photographic plates.
4293105| Curculigo orchioides is an endangered anticarcinogenic herb. It is available only during the monsoon season, which lasts approximately 4 mo. each year. In vitro culture of the plant can ensure its availability throughout the year. Leaf explants of Curculigo orchioides cultured on a Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium without cytokinins produced a limited number of plantlets that originated directly from the cut end of the midrib. 6-Benzyladenine (BA) (0.44-6.66 M) was needed to produce plantlets from rhizome explants. A higher concentration of BA (2.22-4.44 M) resulted in nodular callus that when transferred to cytokinin-free medium formed shoots. The shoots were rooted on media supplemented with either (0.54-5.37 M) of 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) (0.57-5.71 M) of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), or (0.49-4.90 M) indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). Plantlets were kept in sterile sand for 3-4 d and then transferred to soil. 
41318709|Flower buds and anthers of the short-day plant Pharbitis nil were treated either with thermic shock (7 or 35C) or osmotic/trophic shock (12% sucrose) for 24 h. Expiants were transferred either to Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) with addition of 6-benzylaminopurine (BA; 4.4 M) and 6% sucrose or to the same growth medium containing 22 M BA and 3% sucrose. Both media were supplemented with a-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA; 0.55 M). Osmotic/trophic shock stimulated the occurrence of shoots on flower buds grown on medium containing 22 M BA. Thermic shock (7 and 35C) inhibited this process on both types of expiants. Regenerated plantlets were transferred to MS medium supplemented with 6% sucrose, gibberellic acid (GA 1.44 M), NAA (0.55 M) and Ca (O.66mg1).After 3 -4 wk they were able to produce flowers without photoperiodic induction.
42568712|Previously, Panax ginseng var. Mimaki C.A. Meyer had been shown to accumulate genetic mutations during long-term propagation of a callus culture over a period of 20 yr. In this study, we analyzed the mutation types and frequency in a 2-yr-old P. ginseng callus culture and compared it with the 20-yr-old callus culture, and leaves of cultivated plants. We analyzed the sequence variability between the Actin genes, which are a family of housekeeping genes; phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) and dammarenediol synthase (DDS), which actively participate in the biosynthesis of ginsenosides; and the somatic embryogenesis receptor kinases (SERK), which control plant development. The frequency of point mutations in the Actin, PAL, DDS, and SERK genes in the 2-yr-old P. ginseng callus culture was markedly higher than in cultivated plants, but lower than in the 20-yr-old callus culture. Most of the mutations in the 2-yr-old P. ginseng calli were AG and TC transitions, as in the 20-yr-old calli and intact P. ginseng plants. The number of nonsynonymous mutations was higher in the 2-and 20-yr-old callus cultures than the number of nonsynonymous mutations in cultivated P. ginseng. Interestingly, the total number of NG or NC substitutions in the analyzed genes was 1.6 times higher than the total number of NA or NT substitutions. Using a methylation-sensitive DNA fragmentation assay, we showed the level of methylcytosine to be higher in the DNA of the 20-yr-old P. ginseng calli that than in the DNA of the 2-yr-old cultures.
4293238|A system for micropropagation of Epimedium grandiflorum Morr. from rachis expiants was developed. Expiants were cultured onto Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal salts medium supplemented with (per L) 100 mg myo-inositol, 2 mg pyridoxine-HCl, 2 mg nicotinic acid, 0.40 mg thiamine-HCl, 30 g sucrose, and 2 g Phytagel. The medium also contained 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) at 0.1, 0.2, or 0.25 mg/L (0.5, 0.9, or
20461735|Polyamines are ubiquitous polycationic compounds that mediate fundamental aspects of cell growth, differentiation, and cell death in eukaryotic and prokaryotic organisms. In plants, polyamines are implicated in a variety of growth and developmental processes, in addition to abiotic and biotic stress responses. In the last decade, mutant studies conducted predominantly in Arabidopsis thaliana revealed on obligatory requirement for polyamines in zygotic and somatic embryogenesis. Moreover, our appreciation for the intricate spatial and temporal regulation of intracellular polyamine levels has advanced considerably. The exact molecular mechanism(s) through which polyamines exert their physiological response remains somewhat enigmatic and likely serves as a major area for future research efforts. In the following review, we discuss recent advances in the plant polyamine field, which range from metabolism and mutant characterization to molecular genetics and potential mode(s) of polyamine action during growth and development in vitro and in vivo. This review will also focus on the specific role of polyamines during embryogenesis and organogenesis.
29736182|Plant regeneration of Prunus salicina (Japanese plum) using mature seeds was studied and evaluated. Shoots were effectively induced from hypocotyl slices of mature seeds on media containing cytokinins. Among three plant growth regulators evaluated, thidiazuron (TDZ) was the most effective for shoot induction overall. Shoots were also induced using 6-benzylaminopurine (BA), but the effectiveness was reduced at low concentrations. Low regeneration was induced using kinetin. Three plum varieties were evaluated and the regeneration appeared to be genotype dependent. Induced shoots elongated, roots formed, and plantlets developed upon transfer of the shoots to the rooting medium. Primary shoots, when sub-cultured on fresh induction medium, produced multiple shoots, and such multiplication could continue for more cycles. The plantlets were transferred to soil, and the full plants were readily recovered in a greenhouse. The regeneration process was relatively fast as plants could be recovered in 4 to 5 mo. after the culture initiation.
4292955|Plant regeneration via somatic embryogenesis was obtained in peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) from axes of mature zygotic embryos. The area of greatest embryogenic activity was a 2-mm region adjacent to and encircling the epicotyl. Somatic embryogenesis was evaluated on Murashige and Skoog media supplemented with a variety of auxin treatments. Maximum production occurred on medium supplemented with
20064972|A method of propagation through nodal culture was developed for Virginia round-leaf birch, Betula uber (Ashe) Fernald. Nodal cultures of Virginia round-leaf birch had the greatest shoot elongation on woody plant medium supplemented with 7.5 M benzyladenine and 2.9 M gibberellin-3. Shoot elongation was significantly greater when benzyladenine was combined with gibberellin-3 than with benzyladenine alone. In conjunction with propagation, anatomical changes in cuticle and stomata were examined at different stages of culture. Changes in stomatal length, stomatal density, cuticle thickness, and palisade parenchyma layers were noted during the various stages of culture. Propagation through nodal culture provides a feasible method by which Virginia round-leaf birch can be propagated and maintained. The same techniques may be applicable to other endangered hardwood species.
4293700|Germination of coconut (Cocos nucifera L.) zygotic embryos was tested in liquid or solid medium. Percent germination was greater when embryos were cultured in solid medium, particularly when embryos were placed with their micropyle end facing upwards in relation to the vial orientation, independently of orientation in relation to gravity. This occurred because solid medium allowed embryos to be positioned with their micropyle end exposed to the ambient atmosphere of the vial. Germination of embryos facing upwards was suppressed when the ambient atmosphere was replaced with N
23016607|Cotton ovule cultures have obvious advantages over whole plants when experimental protocols call for inhibitors, radio-labeled precursors or controlled environmental conditions to be tested. The responses of ovule expansion growth and attached fiber elongation to external factors require accurate measurement techniques. This paper presents a new method for digital image analysis of the growth area of cotton ovules with fibers at high resolution. The method was characterized under constant conditions and during dynamic responses to different levels of ABA (abscisic acid) treatment. The growth area was treated as area occupied within the outline of the Petri dish image of the growing ovule with fibers. Growth area increase showed the same trends as fiber length increase and was significantly correlated with the fiber length increase under different levels of ABA treatment (r2 = 0.97). This new analysis method provides a simple, noninvasive, and more accurate approach for growth analysis in the cotton ovule culture system. Using this method, the effects of ABA on expansion growth of ovule with fibers were characterized.
20064858|The morphogenetic capacity of mature Juniperus oxycedrus L. leaves cultured in vitro has been studied, noting nutritive, hormonal, and environmental factors inducing differentiation and development of adventitious shoots. Bud primordia formed directly from the leaves. Highest bud differentiation rates were obtained when the explants were cultured for at least 21 days on a modified Schenk and Hildebrandt solidified medium containing 0.5 M benzyladenine under a 16-h photoperiod. Maximum bud development and elongation was achieved on cytokinin-free medium containing 4% (wt/vol) sucrose and 0.05% (wt/vol) activated charcoal. Regenerated shoots were excised and induced to root on media with auxin. Rooting percentages up to 100% were obtained in the presence of 2.5 M naphthaleneacetic acid and 4% (wt/vol) sucrose. The inclusion of activated charcoal in the root induction medium drastically reduced the number of rooted shoots. Following conventional procedures, plantlets were ultimately established in soil.
4293647|We have developed a highly efficient two-stage protocol for induction of multiple shoots from single node in vitro shoot tip explants of Decalepis hamiltonii. It was found that phenylacetic acid (PAA) had a synergistic effect on shoot multiplication when treated with
4293310|A protocol is described for rapid multiplication of Piper barberi Gamble (Piperaceae) through shoot tip and nodal explant cultures. Nodal explants with a single axillary meristem showed three times better response with respect to shoot proliferation when compared to shoot tip explants. The best shoot proliferation response of nodal explants was observed with a cytokinin combination of
4293506|The present state of genetic control of in vitro responses of wheat and of the prospects of its improvement and practical use are presented. The genetic factors affecting different stages of callus induction and of organogenesis in immature embryos are discussed. The dominant genotypic role in the in vitro processes and the cytoplasmic influence on the latter are shown. Genotype x environment and nucleus x cytoplasm interactions were observed. Some unsolved problems needing further investigations of cereals at the tissue culture level are pointed out.
24596341|To improve micropropagation and acclimatization of turmeric (Curcuma longa L.), we evaluated the effects of media volume, plant density, macronutrient ion concentrations, cationic ratios [NH]/[K], and sucrose concentration. Multiplication was highest with low bud density. Yield of new plants was highest with high bud density, the most sucrose, the highest concentration of macronutrients, and the greatest volume of medium. However, maximum plant size required low-density, reduced sucrose and elimination of NH. The largest plants grew quickest during greenhouse acclimatization when macronutrients were lowered to 20 mM. In a follow-up experiment, media volume was set at 40 mL with 5% sucrose with NH reduced to 5 mM, and the effects of varying P, Ca, Mg, KNO, and bud densities were assessed. The largest plants were produced at low density. More importantly, at high density the optimal concentrations of P, Ca, Mg, and KNO predicted plant size that was nearly equal to the maximum value from low-density cultures in the prior experiment. Growth of plants during greenhouse acclimatization was increased by modifications of in vitro medium with plants cultured with 3.32 mM P, 4.5 mM Mg, and 37 mM KNO predicted to grow most rapidly. The effect of starter fertilizer in the greenhouse mix was much less than the effects of P, Mg, and KNO in vitro. These results showed (1) optimal media formulae for different stages of micropropagation and (2) process-related factors such as plant density and media volume affected the optimal nutrient concentrations.
25623017|Wetland species mat rush (Juncus effusus L.) is an important economic plant, but no information is available regarding plant regeneration, callus induction, and its proliferation from in vitro seed grown plantlets. The present study investigates the effects of growth regulator combinations and medium innovation on tissue culture system of five mat rush varieties. Addition of N6- benzyladenine (BA) and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium showed significantly positive effect on callus proliferation, plant regeneration, and its multiplication compared to the medium devoid of BA. The highest callus induction frequency (80.95%, 90.48%, 75.40%, 70.83%, and 83.33%) was observed in MS medium containing 0.5 mg L (2.2 M) BA in Yinlin-1, Nonglin-4, Gangshan, Taicao, and Taiwan green, respectively. Various growth regulator combinations with successive subculture (medium replacement) were found essential to develop organogenic calluses and to regenerate shoots. The combination of 0.1 mg L BA (0.4 M) and 2 mg L 2,4-D (9.0 M) in MS medium was found best for callus proliferation for all the varieties under trial. The plant regeneration required two steps involving successive medium replacements as well as optimal hormonal balances. Successful plant regeneration (over 70%) was observed only by transferring the organogenic callus from regeneration medium I [MS medium containing 0.5 mg L BA (2. M) and 1.0 mg L kinetin (KT; 4.6 M)] to the regeneration medium II [MS medium containing 0.5 mg L BA (2.2 M), 1.0 mg L KT (4.6 M) and 3.0 mg L indoleacetic acid (IAA; 17.1 M)]. Our results confirmed the importance of the ratio of auxin (IAA) to cytokinin (BA and KT) in the manipulation of shoot regeneration in J. effusus L. The maximum plant survival frequency and multiplication rates (90.97% and 5.40 and 94.23% and 8.25) were recorded in the presence of 0.5 mg L BA (2.2 M) in the 1/2 MS multiplication medium for the varieties of Nonglin-4 and Taicao, respectively. About 100% survival rate was also observed for all the varieties in soil conditions. The efficient plant regeneration system developed here will be helpful for rapid micropropagation and further genetic improvement in J. effusus L.
4293632| This paper investigates maintenance and proliferation of somatic embryogenesis systems for Ulmus minor and U. glabra. Proliferation occurred with subculture of embryogenic calluses. The calluses were mainly formed by friable nodules composed of meristematic cells organized into proembryogenic cell masses (PEMs) and thin-walled vacuolated parenchymatic cells. Cotyledonary embryos, with procambial strands and differentiation of their vascular tissues as well as visible root meristems, were identifiable after 18 d of culture on a proliferation medium with 0.44 M benzyladenine (BA). The shoot meristem was only occasionally well developed. Somatic embryo multiplication from elm embryogenic calluses is a clearly asynchronic system, and PEMs as well as embryos at all stages of development are observed simultaneously at the end of subculture period. Factors affecting the proliferation of elm embryogenic callus, such as culture medium, carbon source and genotype, were studied. Basal medium (MS) or medium supplemented with 0.44 M BA produced the highest number of somatic embryos. Somatic embryo production was higher with sucrose or glucose than with maltose, and significant differences were also found among the four embryogenic lines tested. The use of liquid medium with filter paper support is an essential step for the survival of isolated somatic embryos during the germination stage. The addition of 0.22 M BA to liquid MS medium was the best treatment for germination and plantlet conversion of elm somatic embryos. 
20064904|Nutrient limitation and inhibitor accumulation have been shown to impede the development of somatic embryos of carrots in batch cultures. To improve the development of embryos, semicontinuous cultures with daily medium replenishment were performed. An image analysis system capable of identifying normal and abnormal embryos was used to facilitate the kinetic study. At a high daily medium replenishment rate of 20%, the biomass production was also higher, but not the embryo concentration. Total embryo and torpedo embryo concentrations were both higher at a 10% medium replenishment rate than at 5% and 20%. The profiles of embryo concentrations under three medium replenishment rates appeared similar until a late stage of cultivation; however, statistical analysis of the morphological features distribution revealed that significant differences were discernible earlier. For the formation of mature embryos, the optimal daily medium replenishment is judged to be in the range of 10-20%. In this study, more than 20 000 embryos were classified and counted. The information on population kinetics and statistical comparison were made possible by the availability of our image analysis system.
23321157|Lepidium sativum L., commonly known as 'garden cress', possesses variable proportions of benzylcyanide and benzylisothiocynate which contribute towards its activity against Bacillus subtilis and Micrococcus pyogenes. The plant is also used as an antifertility and antiovulatory drug. Various juvenile (cotyledonary leaves, hypocotyl, radicle) as well as mature explants (leaf, shoot apex, nodal segments) callused on Murashige and Skoog's medium (MS) supplemented with naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) + N6-benzyladenine (BA) + casein hydrolyzate (CH). Regeneration from hypocotyl callus and nodal segments occurred after NAA/BA was replaced with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA)/kinetin (Kn). Lepidine was monitored at regular intervals. Significant amounts of lepidine was detected in in vitro-regenerated plants obtained from juvenile and mature explants. The yield, however, was variable, depending upon the source and type of explant used. High lepidine was detected in 8-wk-old hypocotyl callus. Amongst regenerants, maximum lepidine was obtained from the plantlets at the vegetative stage.
4293276|Lignosulfonates (LIGNs) are low-cost by-products from the paper industry and are already commercialized as fertilizers. Because earlier laboratory and glasshouse assays had shown a beneficial effect of LIGNs on rooting and general plant vigor, their incorporation in several plant tissue culture types was examined here. The present assays indicated that well-chosen concentrations of LIGNs, whether they were chelated with Ca or Fe, stimulated growth of a normal and an habituated sugarbeet callus, improved multiplication rate and vigor of a shoot-proliferating poplar cluster, and increased the rooting percentage of holly, ginseng, and poplar shoots. Complementing the exogenous rooting auxin with LIGNs enhanced the increases of endogenous levels of indoleacetic acid and its aspartate conjugate in the basal parts of poplar shoots at the rooting inductive phase. Although LIGNs exerted some effects in the absence of the growth regulators, they could not replace them. Their possible mode of action is discussed.
41318708|A method of plant regeneration from hypocotyl segments of Platanus acerifolia Willd. has been developed. Hypocotyl slices were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with a range of combinations of cytokinins [6-benzyladenine (BA) or kinetin] and auxins [indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), indole-S-acetic acid, a-naphthaleneacetic acid or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid] for adventitious shoot induction. The highest regeneration frequency was obtained with MS medium containing 2.0mg1 (8.88M) BA and 0.5mg1 (2.46 M) IBA. Adventitious buds and shoots were differentiated from hypocotyl-derived callus or directly from the wounded sites within 4-8 wk. The regenerated shoots were elongated and proliferated efficiently on multiplication medium. Complete plantlets were transplanted to the soil and grew normally in the greenhouse after root formation on rooting medium for 4 6wk.
4293910| This study reports a protocol for successful micropropagation of Decalepis arayalpathra (Joseph and Chandras) Venter. (Janakia arayalpathra Joseph and Chandrasekhran; Periplocaceae), a critically endangered and endemic ethnomedicinal plant in the southern forests of the Western Ghats which is overexploited for its tuberous medicinal roots by the local Kani tribes. Natural regeneration is rare and conventional propagation is difficult. Conservation of the species through micropropagation was attempted. The nodal explants of greenhouse-raised plants, were more desirable than cotyledonary nodal explants of aseptic seedlings. The basal nodes (73%) of 12-16-wk-old greenhouse-grown plants cultured in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 12.96 M 6-benzyladenine (BA), 2.48 M 2-isopentenyladenine (2-ip) and 2.68 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) formed 16-17 cm long unbranched robust solitary shoots in 8 wk. Cotyledonary nodal explants cultured in the same medium showed multiple shoot formation and axillary branching. But the shoots were thin, fragile and not suitable for mass propagation. Single nodes of a solitary shoot subcultured on MS medium containing 2.22 M BA and 0.24 M 2-ip together produced 9.8  0.3 nodes from 18.0  0.6 cm long shoots within 5-6 wk. The basal nodes of the shoots so formed were repeatedly subcultured to increase the stock of propagules while the 2.5-3.0 cm terminal cuttings were used for rooting. The best root induction (68%) and survival (86%) was achieved on half-strength MS medium supplemented with 1.07 M NAA. Field-established plants showed uniform growth and phenotypic similarity to parental stock. 
4293797|Methyl jasmonate (MeJA) interacted significantly with both indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) to influence cell growth of cultured Onosma paniculatum cells. Cell growth decreased with increasing concentrations of MeJA from
4293399|The effects were studied of light intensity, culture method and cytokinins on plant formation from callus-derived rhizomes of Cymbidium ensifolium var. misericors. The results demonstrated that one piece of rhizome produced seven shoot buds in 45 d when cultured in 1/2 MS basal liquid medium supplemented with
40981345|A simple procedure has been described for simultaneous determination and improved yield of three pentacyclic triterpenoidsbetulinic, oleanolic, and ursolic acidsfrom callus cultures of Lantana cmara. Cell biomass was obtained from leaf disk expiants cultured on Murashige and Skoog (Physiol Plant 15:473-497, 1962) medium supplemented with 5 M 6-benzylaminopurine, 1 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, and 1 M -naphthaleneacetic acid. Optimum separation of the three compounds was achieved by reverse-phase high-pressure liquid chromatography on a C column with 80:20 (v/v) acetonitrile/water as mobile phase. With this route, a yield of 3.1% betulinic acid, 1.88% oleanolic acid, and 4.12% ursolic acid per gram dry weight was obtained from cultures. Leaves from the parent plant, used as control, showed total absence of betulinic acid, and the quantities of oleanolic and ursolic acids present in them were only marginally higher than that found in in vitro-raised cultures. Presence of the three compounds was further confirmed by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry.
20540993|Thidiazuron induces a variety of effects in foliar explants of K. pinnata cultured in vitro. Of these, the induction of an organized hypertrophic growth at the vein ending on the proximal side of leaf disks is a significant morphogenetic effect. This polarized hypertrophy is considered an exclusive auxin-mediated response, as the effect is completely reversed by auxin efflux inhibitor 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid. With the magnitude of hypertrophic growth from individual disks taken as a manifestation of putative auxin levels, the occurrence of a gross, decreasing bioactive auxin gradient from median-basal to peripheral locations across the leaf plane has been observed.
4293846|A procedure for protoplast isolation and plant regeneration of St. John's wort has been developed to utilize cell-to-cell variability for optimum production of valuable medicinal compounds. Calluses, induced from hypocotyl segments of St. John's wort seedlings, were used for protoplast isolation, induction of sustained cell division, and ultimately, plant regeneration. Callus-isolated protoplasts at a density of
4293792|Considerable progress has been accomplished in the cellular and molecular biology of Brassica species in the past few years. Plant regeneration has been increasingly optimized via organogenesis and somatic embryogenesis using various explants; with tissue culture improvements focusing on factors such as age of the explant, genotype, and media additives. The production of haploids and doubled haploids using microspores has accelerated the production of homozygous lines in the Brassica species. Somatic cell fusion has facilitated the development of interspecific and intergeneric hybrids in the sexually incompatible species of Brassica. Crop improvement using somaclonal variation has also been achieved. The use of molecular markers in marker-assisted selection and breeding, transformation technology for the introduction of desirable traits, and a comparative analysis of these as well as their future prospects are important parts of the current research that is reviewed.
29736219|Murashige and Skoog's (MS) basal medium with benzylaminopurine (BA), kinetin (KN), zeatin (Z), and thidiazuron (TDZ) were tested for induction of multiple shoots from mature-tree-derived axillary meristems of Pongamia pinnata. Sprouting of buds was 64% on medium devoid of plant growth regulators (PGR). Incorporation of BA, KN, or Z was ineffective in enhancing sprouting frequency or induction of multiple shoots. Sprouting was completely suppressed in the presence of TDZ. Caulogenic buds appeared in nodal meristems of these explants after withdrawal of TDZ. The number of shoot buds was more on explants precultured in higher concentrations. At higher concentrations of this PGR, a swelling developed at the axil. Multiple shoot primordia appeared and differentiated from this swelling after culturing these explants on MS medium for six passages of 2 wk each. Shoots were harvested and cultured on 0.45 M TDZ for further proliferation. Primary explants after harvesting of shoots were identified as 'stump'. Reculturing of stumps on 0.45 M TDZ produced more shoots. This step was followed for six cycles to obtain additional shoots in each cycle. Shoots maintained on 0.45 M TDZ elongated and rooted (70%) on growth regulator-free medium. Rooted shoots (65%) survived transfer to a sand/soil mixture. This report describes the protocol for micropropagation of P. pinnata using mature-tree-derived nodal meristems. Recycling of mature stock to produce a stream of useable shoots for subculturing and eventual stabilization is of great value and can possibly be generalized as an isolation protocol especially for woody species. Repeated proliferation of caulogenic buds from the same origin may also find application in rescue of endangered germplasm.
4293094|The influence of culture flask closures, i.e., cotton plugs and rubber and aluminum-foil caps, on headspace gas composition and growth of leaf petiole callus-derived GF 677 cell suspensions was comparatively tested. Oxygen concentration always remained comparable to that of the lab atmosphere and CO
4293108| Ginkgo biloba L. is an important landscape tree, is resistant to insect, fungi and other pests, and produces a number of chemicals that have pharmaceutical properties (termed ginkgolides). Studies were initiated to establish an in vitro culture protocol for Ginkgo. Explants (intact embryos, embryos with cotyledons removed, and cotyledon tissue) were removed from disinfested seeds and cultured on Murashige and Skoog minimal organics medium with various combinations of either 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and either kinetin or benzyladenine (BA). Cultures were incubated in the light and morphological development was recorded. Both embryo and cotyledon explants produced callus (cotyledon tissue produced the most callus). Ginkgolides A and B were detected in callus tissue extracts. Intact embryo cultures initiated on media with 2,4-D plus NAA for 5 wk produced shoots and roots when transferred to media with 4.5 M 2,4-D alone for an additional 5 wk. Plants were transferred from the 2,4-D media to pots and maintained in the greenhouse. 
4293935| In researching the application of genetic transformation to lily breeding, callus formation from cultured explants and plant regeneration from induced calluses were examined in 33 Lilium genotypes, 21 species, three Asiatic hybrids, two LA hybrids, two Longiflorum hybrids, three Oriental hybrids, and two Trumpet hybrids. Seed, bulb scale, leaf, or filament explants were placed on a medium containing 4.1 M 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid (picloram; PIC) and cultured in the dark. After 2 mo., callus formation was observed in 30 genotypes, and a formation frequency of more than 50% was obtained in 24 genotypes. Bulb scale and filament explants showed great ability to form calluses, whereas seeds had poor ability. Most of the induced calluses were yellow and had a nodular appearance. When subcultured onto the same fresh medium, twofold or more increases in callus mass were obtained in 1 mo. for 15 genotypes. Callus lines showing sustained growth 1 yr after the initiation of subculture were examined for their ability to produce shoots on a medium without plant growth regulators (PGRs) and a medium containing 22 M 6-benzyladenine (BA). Shoot regeneration was observed in all genotypes examined, and a regeneration frequency of over 80% was obtained in 20 genotypes. Initial explants used for callus induction and callus type (nodular or friable) had no effect on shoot regeneration. Most of the regenerated shoots developed into complete plantlets following their transfer to a PGR-free medium. 
4293365|This review focuses on how microspore-derived (MD) embryos and cell suspension cultures of oilseed rape have been used to advance our understanding of the biochemistry and molecular biology of lipid biosynthesis in plants. Both types of cultures are easily maintained and circumvent the difficulties associated with using developing seeds for investigations of lipid biosynthesis. Developing MD embryos exhibit a similar storage lipid accumulation profile and fatty acid composition to developing seed. The use of dihaploids derived from plantlets of MD embryos have accelerated breeding programs and have proven useful in the detection of recessive mutations. MD embryos and MD cell suspension cultures have been particularly useful in investigating the properties of key enzymes involved in triacylglycerol (TG) bioassembly. MD cell suspension cultures, however, offer the advantage of being able to study lipid metabolism in the absence of cellular differentiation. TG accumulation can be induced in MD cell suspension cultures by increasing the sucrose concentration of the growth medium thereby providing a useful system to investigate gene expression and the proteomics of lipid biosynthesis.
4293157| A sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua) nodule culture system was developed and integrated with genetic transformation by microprojectile bombardment. Nodule cultures were established from seedling hypocotyls and proliferated in liquid medium containing 0.1 mg (0.45 M) thidiazuron (TDZ) per l and 0.01 mg (0.045 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) per l. Shoots differentiated from the nodules in liquid media containing (per l) 1 mg (4.4 M) benzyladenine (BA), 0.5 mg (2.2 M) BA, and 0.01 mg (0.054 M) naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), or 0.5 mg BA, 0.01 mg NAA, and 0.05 mg (0.23 M) TDZ under the light. Differentiating shoots required 4 wk of dark treatment for further development on semisolid medium containing 1 mg BA per l. Elongated shoots were harvested and the basal ends were soaked in a solution containing 10 mg (49.2 M) indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) per l before being planted in potting mix for ex vitro rooting. Roots formed and leaves expanded in 2 wk. Sweetgum nodules were stably transformed by microprojectile bombardment with a 7.4-kb plasmid, pTRA 140, harboring CaMV 35S-HPH and CaMV 35S-GUS. Evidence that nodules growing in the presence of hygromycin B were stably transformed was provided by polymerase chain reaction analysis and -glucuronidase activity. Sweetgum shoots differentiated in liquid medium in the presence of hygromycin B. Shoots transferred to solid medium lacking hygromycin B elongated and displayed -glucuronidase activity in their expanding leaves and stems. Southern analysis confirmed the presence of the GUS gene in nodules and shoots. Transgenic shoots initiated roots and showed leaf expansion 2 wk after being planted in potting mix. 
20065032|A protocol has been developed for plantlet regeneration from seed callus of Bixa orellana L. Seeds demonstrated a high percentage of callus induction (63.8  7.3%) and a high yield (356.3  14.7 mg per seed) of white friable callus on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 5.0 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 2.5 M N-benzyladenine (BA) within 6 wk of culture in the dark. Callus induction frequency was greater under 24 h dark as compared to 16 h light/8 h dark photoperiod or 24 h light photoperiod. Increased myo-inositol (MI;
4293527|Random amplified polymorphic DNA analysis was used to determine the occurrence and extent of variation in rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants regenerated from anther culture. Androclonal variation in morphologically uniform progenies was detected using 40 10-mer oligonucleotide arbitrary primers. Among 27 plants from nine anther culture-derived lines, variation was detected in three plants from two lines by two primers, namely UBC 160 and UBC 209. Primer UBC 160 amplified a polymorphic band on one of the three progenies from DH-34, while UBC 209 detected polymorphisms on two out of three progenies from line DH-58. Apart from these, the amplification products were monomorphic across all the regenerants from anther culture-derived plants. Out of 40 tested primers, no difference in the banding pattern was observed in three seed-derived plants. The significance of possible androclonal variation at the DNA level in rice doubled haploid breeding and genetic mapping is discussed.
20461541|An efficient in vitro shoot propagation method for Vaccinium cylindraceum Smith by axillary bud proliferation was developed in this study. Cultures of V. cylindraceum were established on a Zimmerman and Broome medium supplemented with increasing concentrations of N-[2-isopentyl] adenine (2-iP), using nodal and shoot-tip explants from three different islands. Best shoot production was obtained when nodal segments were cultured in the medium supplemented with 12.3 and 24.6 M 2-iP. Shoots were rooted in vitro in the same media without 2-iP and cultured ex vitro in Jiffy 7 pellets. About 99% of the rooted plants survived.
20064940|Comparative studies of carnation micropropagation under four different ventilation rates showed that using gas-permeable filters, with gelled or liquid media and modifying the volume of culture medium, it was possible to establish a suitable hydric state to obtain good proliferation rates with gelled and liquid medium, as well as optimal acclimatization of micro-cuttings. The following parameters were measured: ventilation rate, gas exchange coefficients, relative water loss, increase of agar concentration, micropropagation rates, percentage of hyperhydricity, and acclimatization rates. Our results confirm that it is possible to avoid hyperhydric plants cultured in liquid medium with the use of ventilated culture vessels through the control of the water relations during the multiplication phase and, at the same time, keeping the micropropagation rate.
20064916|The Antirrhinum majus Tam3 element was introduced into Arabidopsis thaliana protoplasts and plants in order to assess the influence of an in vitro culture phase such as protoplasts and callus culture on the mobility of this transposable element in this plant species. The constructs used contained the Tam3 element inserted in between the CaMV 35S promoter and the gus- or hpt-coding region, allowing a direct selection of excision candidates. From the different approaches used, only a long-term callus culture allowed us to detect Tam3 activity. No Tam3 activity could be detected in protoplasts or protoplast-derived microcolonies. Our data are compared with those previously reported for Tam3 in tobacco and petunia.
20064809|The effects of sucrose concentration, addition of ammonium nitrate, and exposure to N-benzyl-adenine (BA) on multiplication potential with shoots derived from shoot cultures of 17- to 20-yr-old Douglas fir trees [Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirb.) Franco] were compared. Each of these conditions, when compared independently, affected recurrent shoot multiplication and influenced shoot development, as measured by the abundance of shoot apices. Sucrose concentration was influential, the use of
4293898|Leaf-tip necrosis of micropropagated statice plantlets is a serious problem in commercial laboratories in Taiwan. Endophytic bacteria were detected in plantlets obtained from commercial laboratories with a leaf-tip necrosis problem. Endophytic bacteria were detected in flower stalks collected from four different statice farms at frequencies ranging from 61 to 100%. All plantlets regenerated from flower-stalk explants that tested free of endophytic bacteria did not develop leaf-tip necrosis. The most frequently detected endophytic bacteria were Pasteurella multocida, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, and Alcaligenes sp. Most endophytic bacteria in statice plantlets were eliminated by the subculture of plantlets on medium with augmentin, cefotaxime, or augmentin plus cefotaxime. Those plantlets freed from endophytic bacteria by subculture on antibiotic-amended medium did not develop leaf-tip necrosis. Our results show that leaf-tip necrosis of micropropagated statice plantlets is associated with endophytic bacteria, and that the disease can be controlled by using explants pre-tested to be free from endophytic bacteria or by the subculture of affected plantlets on antibiotic-amended medium.
20065006|Leaves of Phlox paniculata L. were bombarded with BA-coated gold microprojectiles with the Biolistic PDS/1000-He gene gun. Increasing the concentration of BA from 0.01 to 0.1 mg/l increased the mean number of adventitious shoots from 7 to 16 shoots per leaf. Bombardment of cotyledons of Pinus pinea L. (Italian stone pine) with BA-coated gold particles significantly reduced the frequency of shoot organogenesis by about 40%. However, induced shoot regenerants from bombarded explants of both P. paniculata and P. pinea were longer (&gt1 cm) than those derived from control explants after 3 and 5 wk following bombardment, respectively.
40981344|A novel, efficient, and simple protocol was developed on in vitro mass propagation and acclimatization of Gerbera jamesonii Bolus cv. Sciella, an ornamental plant with attractive flowers. Shoot tip was used as the primary expiant for in vitro establishment in which Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with a low level of NAA (0.5 mgl) and BAP (1.5 mgl) promoted earliest axillary bud initiation within 5 d in 91.6% of the inoculants. Five axillary buds were initiated from a single expiant within 13d after inoculation. A very high rate of shoot multiplication (14 shoots per inoculated axillary bud) and proliferation was achieved when MS medium was fortified with a relatively higher level of BAP (2 mgl) and 60 mgl ADS within 27 d of multiple shoot culture. A maximum number of well-developed roots per plant was observed in MS medium with 0.5 mgl IAA in the next 26 d. In the easy low-cost acclimatization process of 20 d, a combination of sand, soil, cow urine, and tea leaves extract (1:1:1:1; v/v) ensured 95% survival rate. Sixty-one well-acclimatized plants were obtained from a single shoot tip within 86 d. The sustained multiple shoot culture for 15 mo paved the way toward the conservation of genetic resources as well as beneficial economics. The clonal fidelity study of micropropagated and sustained cultured clones using ISSR primers ensured the continuous supply of quality propagules retaining genetic uniformity. The in vitro-generated plants performed better over conventionally propagated plants in the field condition.
4293403|Triploid watermelon (Citrullus lanatus [Thunb.] Matsum. & Nakai) Arka Manik cultures exhibited a general pale color and yellowing of lower leaves by 3-4 wk following subculturing to fresh medium. Protecting the medium from light by covering the surface with sterile aluminum foil significantly improved leaf color and chlorophyll content by 50-60%. Raising the concentration of
4293497|Somatic embryos of grapevine (Vitis vinifera L.) 'Chardonnay' were produced from liquid suspension cultures. Mature somatic embryos were blot dried briefly in the laminar flow hood and germinated directly in Magenta GA-7 Vessels[TRADE MARK SIGN] containing one of the following potting media: (1) sand, (2) commercial potting mixture (CPM), or (3) CPM overlaid with sand. Each vessel containing 20 ml of distilled water and the potting medium was sterilized by autoclaving for 30 min and cooled overnight before inoculating the somatic embryos. Five somatic embryos were placed in each vessel under aseptic conditions. The vessels were closed and incubated at
4293817|Meristematic clusters were induced from daylily scape explants (pedicel-scape junction) in the presence of the growth retardant Paclobutrazol on semisolid agar medium. Liquid shake culture was used to proliferate meristematic clusters. Highly efficient regeneration of adventitious shoots occurred on clusters after subculture on a 0.8% agar strength semisolid medium with the addition of activated charcoal. Paclobutrazol and sucrose levels in the media were found to significantly affect starch accumulation, growth value, and dry weight percentage of liquid-cultured meristematic clusters. The use of liquid shake cultures for mass proliferation of meristematic clusters followed by regeneration of adventitious shoots on semisolid agar culture could be an efficient system for large-scale micropropagation of daylily.
20064923|The rate of metabolism and biosynthetic processes make in vitro cultures very sensitive to environmental changes, and therefore subject to physiological and morphological alterations leading to senescence in the short term. The effects of three different calibrated atmospheric compositions were studied during in vitro culture of Prunus avium shoots. At 0.034% CO-21% O (vol/vol), which stimulate the natural atmosphere, the highest growth rate and chlorophyll content were recorded. When grown at 0.09% CO-8% O (vol/vol), a favorable condition for photosynthesis and growth, cultures showed a higher percentage of dry matter and elevated ethylene production, but total chlorophyll was lower. These shoots were also highly lignified and fibrous with red pigmentation along the leaves and stems. At 0% CO-21% O (vol/vol), in contrast, growth and ethylene formation were inhibited; chlorophyll content was lowest in comparison with the other two environmental conditions, but regreening of tissues was observed after the first half of the culture period. Senescence symptoms, as indicated by decreased chlorophyll, appeared after about 18 d of culture for tissues grown in CO-containing atmospheres. These experiments provided evidence that in CO-enriched cultures biomass production steadily increased even when chlorophyll decreased. A possible role of CO in promoting tissue-senescence through activation of photooxidative events and ethylene synthesis is discussed.
41318705|Seventeen breeding lines of soybean, Glycine max (L.) Merrill, and cv. Jack, from relative maturity groups 0.3-7.5 were assessed for their ability to undergo somatic embryogenesis. The goal of this study was to determine which lines had high embryognie capacity. We also sought to understand the relationship between relative maturity and embryogenesis. Embryos from immature cotyledons were initiated on solid MS medium with varying levels of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Qualitative and quantitative measures of initiation, proliferation, differentiation, and maturation were recorded. The breeding lines differed significantly with respect to percent induction, number of embryos induced, and quality of induced embryos. After 1 mo. of proliferation, two early maturing lines, the control, Jack, and NK-5, had the best overall performance. High percent response of proliferating embryos was positively associated with lower maturity groups. Relatively high concentrations of 2,4-D (compared with that used in proliferating medium, e. g., 226 M; 50 mgI1) in the initiating medium reduced numbers of embryo clusters per cotyledon initiated and percent initiation, and the concentration of 2,4-D affected the proliferation of somatic embryos in a breeding line-dependent manner. The breeding lines differed significantly in the time to produce mature somatic embryos. There was a positive correlation between immature embryo quality and number of differentiated somatic embryos produced.
4292974| A protocol for clonal propagation of eastern white cedar (Thuja occidentalis L.) was enhanced by optimizing the shoot multiplication stage using unbranched in vitro-produced shoots. This was achieved by careful selection of different medium components. An optimum range of 10 to 14 axillary shoots was obtained when shoots were cultured on half-strength Quiorin and LePoivre medium containing 10 M filter-sterilized zeatin for 3 wk. Transfer of the treated shoots to cytokinin-free medium containing 0.05% activated charcoal improved both the number and quality of the axillary shoots produced. Maximum axillary bud induction was also accomplished when shoots were pulsed in 1 mM liquid, filter-sterilized zeatin for 3 h, and then transferred to half-strength Quiorin and LePoivre, charcoal-containing medium. Inclusion of 4% sucrose improved the number of axillary shoots obtained. Half strength of the major salts produced an optimum response. Shoots obtained from different cultures (1 to 5 yr old) responded similarly to the applied cytokinin; however, newly induced shoots (4 mo. old) gave a significantly higher response. 
4293254|Photoautotrophic (sugar-free) micropropagation has been examined for many different plant species. One of the advantages of photoautotrophic micropropagation is the low risk of contamination, which facilitates the use of large culture vessels, and thus contributes to the reduction in production cost. In this article, pathogenic and nonpathogenic contaminations are discussed, and guidelines for development of large-scale, pathogen-free, photoautotrophic micropropagation systems are introduced. A preliminary experiment was conducted for producing pathogen-free plantlets by large-scale photoautotrophic micropropagation. Addition of AgNO
20065019|Recombinant DNA technology has great potential to enhance and extend the advantages of conventional plant breeding, and increase the production and productivity of crops to meet the increasing demand for food and food products in the future. Judicious application of this technology provides opportunities for alleviating some of the major constraints to crop productivity under subsistence farming conditions in the developing countries. Considerable progress has been made in developing strategies for the production and deployment of transgenic crops. However, biosafety concerns have been raised regarding the deployment and release of genetically engineered plants. This debate has divided the farming and consumer communities over acceptability of genetically modified foods. There is a need for a through investigation regarding the fate of transgenic plants in the environment, and their interaction with wild relatives and non-target organisms. The production and release of transgenic plants should be based on experience and sound scientific reasoning. The regulatory requirements for deployment of transgenic crops should be streamlined and harmonized, in order to achieve sustainable food production, poverty reduction, and environmental protection in resource-poor countries in the semi-arid tropics.
41496434|A protocol is described that supports the production of transgenic sugarcane plants ready for transfer to soil within 3 mo from culture initiation. Biolistic gene transfer into cross-sections of immature leaf whorl expiants followed by direct somatic embryogenesis resulted in the stable genetic transformation of the commercially important sugarcane cultivar CP 88-1762. Accelerating the production of transgenic sugarcane plants not only saves time and effort but will likely also minimize somaclonal variation. Southern blot analysis revealed simple transgene integration patterns ranging from one to five hybridization products. NPTII-ELISA confirmed that most of the transgenic plants expressed the transgene stably in vegetative progeny. Using a minimal, linear expression cassette (MC) without vector backbone sequences for the biolistic gene transfer and reducing the amount of MC to 10 ng per shot may have led to simple transgene integration and stable transgene expression. Therefore, this protocol has great potential for the generation of commercial transgenic sugarcane events.
41432837|Sodium thioglycollate is a reducing agent used in microbiological growth media to enhance the growth of anerobic, microaerophilic, and facultative organisms, and in eukaryotic tissue extraction buffers to inhibit damaging oxidative reactions. Sodium thioglycollate was added to a semi-solid pollen germination medium to evaluate its effects on in vitro pollen germination and pollen tube elongation, based on the assumption that conditions within stylar tissues are less aerobic than in ambient conditions. We observed significant increases in the percent germination and pollen tube elongation of both crop and weedy mustard family species, on a medium containing 2.2 mM sodium thioglycollate.This suggests that sodium thioglycollate may be a useful amendment to semi-solid media and to solutions that are used to study pollen vigor, physiology, or gene expression, and to bioassay sensitivities of different species or genotypes to diverse physical and chemical factors.
20064994|A fungal elicitor extracted from Aspergillus oryzae (Ahlb.) Cobn mycelia promoted the production of shikonin derivatives in Onosma paniculatum Bur et Franch cell suspension cultures. Elicitor treatment also increased
4293131|The patterns of hyoscyamine and proline accumulation were studied in Agrobacterium-tmnsformed 'hairy root' cultures of Hyoscyamus muticus to determine if proline is a metabolic precursor of hyoscyamine. Root cultures were stressed osmotically with mannitol and the subsequent growth, hyoscyamine levels, and proline levels were measured after each transfer to fresh experimental medium for a total of four transfers. H. muticus 'hairy roots' were also treated with
20461621|An efficient protocol for in vitro propagation of the valuable medicinal plant, Wasabia japonica (Miq.) Matsumura is described through shoot tip proliferation and direct regeneration. Multiple shoots were induced from shoot tips cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) semi-solid medium containing various concentrations (0.5-50 M) of N-benzyladenine (BA), thidiazuron, kinetin, and zeatin. A comparison was made on shoot multiplication between semi-solid and liquid culture media. Well-developed shoots were obtained using full-strength MS semi-solid medium containing 5.0 M BA. However, the greatest shoot proliferation was achieved on either full- or half-strength MS liquid media supplemented with 5.0 M BA for 4 wk (15.3  0.9 and 15.0  0.7 shoots per explant, respectively), and on half-strength MS liquid medium for 6 wk (25.8  1.3 shoots per explant) in culture. In contrast, the maximum number of shoots per explant on full-strength MS semi-solid medium was achieved with either 5.0 M BA (10.4  0.6 shoots per explant) or 10.0 M kinetin (10.9  0.8 shoots per explant). Fresh weight of explants and length of shoots derived from full-strength MS liquid medium (1055  77 mg and 34.2  1.0 mm, respectively) were significantly higher than those derived from full-strength MS semi-solid medium (437.6  17.3 mg and 15.4  0.7 mm, respectively). Quarter-strength MS liquid medium had no significant difference in shoot proliferation when compared to quarter-strength MS semi-solid medium. Elongated shoots were separated and rooted on half-strength MS semi-solid media fortified with 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), or indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) ranging from 0.1 to 10.0 M. Root formation was greatest with IBA when compared with IAA and NAA. One hundred percent of shoots were rooted on half-strength MS medium with 5.0 M IBA, while vigorous roots were obtained with 10.0 M IBA. Micropropagated plantlets were successfully established in soil with 95% survival rate after hardening.
4292920| Microscope cultures of Brassica napus cv. Topas undergo high frequency embryogenesis in vitro; however, the majority of microspore-derived embryos do not develop directly into plants but usually undergo abnormal development including the formation of secondary embryos on the hypocotyls. The present studies show that older embryos or embryos cultured at higher temperature (25 C) were more likely to undergo secondary embryogenesis whereas embryos cultured at 20 C or pretreated at 5 to 10 C for 28 days developed more readily into normal plants. Compared with embryos cultured at 25 C, those cultured at 20 C gave a threefold increase in normal plant production. Pretreatments at cooler temperatures (5 to 10 C) resulted in an additional two-to threefold increase in the recovery of normal plants. Higher osmoticum during pretreatment improved embryo survival at low temperatures but generally inhibited normal plant development. Abscisic acid was ineffective or deleterious. 
4293481| In a short period of time, a large number of adventitious shoots were regenerated from longitudinal sections of in vitro-germinated seedlings of the endangered Mexican cactus, Turbinicarpus laui. The induction medium consisted of Murashige and Skoog salts, supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) in a wide range of combinations. The most effective concentrations of growth regulators for shoots initiation were 8.8-13.32 M BA with 0-2.68 M NAA. After 3-4 mo., individualized shoots were rooted on half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium and then transferred to soil to acclimatize under greenhouse conditions. In vitro strategies play a key role in the conservation and propagation of this commercially important endangered species of cactus. 
4292917| The Holistic technique transforms cells by bombardment with DNA-coated microprojectiles. It has been used to transform plants, microbes, and organelles. We adapted a standard Biolistic PDS-1000 device for use with animals and have successfully transformed tissues in live mice. The firefly luciferase gene was introduced into mouse skin and ear tissue. One day after transformation 344  74 and 1648  254 pg of luciferase were detected in skin and ear samples, respectively. Expression of the gene product was transient but detectable up to 7 days after bombardment. A further modification of the device allowed transient transformation of liver tissue in vivo. Liver contained 293  122 pg of luciferase 1 day postransformation. Expression of the gene in liver tissue was unchanged at Day 3 but declined to low levels by Day 5. This new device allowed a fourfold increase in gene expression in ear tissue extending a minimum of 14 days. This technology is applicable to a broad range of tissues and organs in situ and makes it possible to test numerous reporters and the tissue specificity of promoters. It may also be useful in protocols for somatic cell therapy. 
4293517|Micropropagation of Arnica montana L. using Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
20064966|Genomic DNA isolated from embryogenic cultures of two mango cultivars, 'Hindi' and 'Carabao,' that had been selected for resistance to the culture filtrate of Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, was analyzed using Randomly Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD). In vitro selection caused changes in RAPD markers in the selected embryogenic cultures with respect to the unchallenged control cultures and the stock plants. The differences involved both the absence and the presence of additional RAPD markers in the resistant lines, although the former was most commonly observed. The absence of differences between the unchallenged control of either cultivar and DNA from the leaves of parent trees confirmed that the changes were not due to prolonged maintenance in liquid cultures.
29736160|This study reports an improved protocol for in vitro-shoot and ex vitro acclimation of Bupleurum kaoi, an endangered medicinal herb. Nodal segments were cultured in half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with different concentrations of benzyladenine (BA) and kinetin. The presence of 0.25 mgl BA induced the highest number of shoots per explant after 8 wk of culture. Although BA was more effective than kinetin on shoot multiplication, it induced hyperhydric shoots at all concentration tested. The use of dispense paper (DP) instead of aluminum foil (AF) for container closure was found to reduce hyperhydricity and improve ex vitro acclimation. The best survival rate (61%) was obtained when plantlets were grown in MS basal medium contanining 0.5 mgl indole-3-butyric acid and 0.1-0.2 mgl -naphthaleneacetic acid using DP as container closure. Leaves of the plant treated with AF6 (two layers of AF as container closure and 6wk of incubation) lacked epicuticular wax and possessed larger stomata, higher stomata density, and fewer functional stomata compared to those treated with AF2+DP4 (two layers of AF for 2 wk, then replaced AF by three layers of DP for 4wk) and ex vitro-acclimated plantlets.
4293001|Studies were undertaken to optimize tissue culture conditions for micropropagation of Aleppo pine (Pinus halepensis Mill.) from mature embryos and various explants of the embryo. Over 90% of the embryo explants gave rise to adventitious buds within 4 wk. Intact embryos were the most suitable explants for shoot bud induction. Both isolated cotyledons and hypocotyls produced adventitious buds, but these developed slowly and failed to elongate.
20064847|Maize (Zea mays L.) embryogenic type-II calli were grown on medium containing 0, 0.1 M ABA or 60 g/liter sucrose or both before dehydration of solitary somatic embryos under three relative humidity regimes for up to 6 wk. Viability of dehydrated embryos after 2 wk rehydration was assessed by their ability to produce chlorophyll (greening), roots, coleoptiles, and/or leaves. Only embryos sequentially pretreated with ABA and high sucrose remained viable after 2 wk of dehydration at 70% RH. Up to 34% of the somatic embryos survived 2 wk dehydration at 70% RH, whereas embryos dehydrated at 50 or 90% RH exhibited reduced viability (8.7 and 0.8%, respectively). Approximately 15% of the embryos dehydrated at 70% RH developed into plants, whereas 0.9 and 0% of embryos dehydrated at 50 and 90% RH produced plants. Three percent of maize somatic embryos remained viable after 6 wk of dehydration at 70% RH, and 1.7% developed into plants. Embryo size influenced the ability of maize somatic embryos to survive dehydration. Only embryos greater than 5 mm survived 2 wk dehydration at 70% RH.
20461754|Hairy root cultures were induced by inoculating cotyledonary leaves and hypocotyl segments from two cotton species, Gossypium hirsutum and Gossypium barbadense, with Rhizobium rhizogenes 15834. For both species, more hairy roots formed on inoculation sites on cotyledonary leaves than on hypocotyls. The addition of sucrose to basal Murashige-Skoog media increased the frequency of hairy root formation, whereas the addition of naphthalene acetic acid (0.54 M) did not. After transfer to a liquid culture, hairy root growth was very rapid. After 3 wk in liquid culture, both cotton species produced gossypol, a disesquiterpene secondary metabolite with known anticancer activity, and two related methylated derivatives. Most (60-95%) gossypol produced by cultures was retained within the hairy root tissues, but some was found in the media. The average gossypol level observed among 96 different cultures was 15 mg/g of dry culture mass; however, some cultures produced &gt;40 mg/g of dry culture mass. Variation in gossypol levels was greater for cultures arising from different transformation events than for multiple subclones of a single transformant. The high level of gossypol production attained by most of these cultures suggests that they will be valuable for studying the biochemical and molecular aspects of gossypol biosynthesis, capable of producing large amounts of gossypol and related compounds, and useful for generating modified forms of gossypol (e.g., radio-labeled gossypol) for understanding bioactivity mechanisms.
42568710|The efficiency of cell-penetrating peptide (CPP)-mediated dsDNA transfection in triticale microspores was investigated through transient and stable integration of the -glucoronidase (GUS) reporter gene and expression assays in microspore-derived embryos and plantlets. The RecA protein, usually associated with prokaryote homologous recombination, was also tested for its capacity to protect the linear transgene from degradation. Transfections mediated by the CPP nanocarriers Tat2 and Pep1 reduced the number of regenerated embryos from 158 in the control to 122 and 100, respectively. The co-delivery of CPP-dsDNA with RecA protein also resulted in fewer embryos, 87 and 104 for Tat2 and Pep1, respectively. Delivery of dsDNA with Tat2 or Pep1, without RecA, resulted in the highest frequencies of GUS activity in regenerated embryos, at 26%. Co-delivery with RecA decreased the percentage of GUS-positive embryos to 16%. Interestingly, co-delivered RecA-dsDNA reduced the loss of integrity of inserted genetic construct, as observed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of the 5' and 3' ends. GUS activity was also detected in mature haploid and diploid plants. Of all treatments, 31 T plants tested positive for the GUS gene by quantitative PCR, although 50% were derived from the single treatment dsDNA-Tat2. The estimated copy number of the GUS transgene varied between four and eight. This study provides the foundations for CPP-mediated codelivery of dsDNA and protein RecA in haploid microspore nuclei for functional genomic studies in crop species.
20065007|Plastids are surrounded by an envelope consisting of a double membrane. This barrier has to be penetrated or overcome by the DNA when transforming the plastome. Both the biolistic and polyethylene glycol-mediated transformation techniques accomplish this task, albeit by different mechanisms. We were the first laboratory to successfully use the polyethylene glycol (PEG)-method for plastid transformation, yet we use the particle gun when appropriate. In this report we compare the two methods and discuss their shortcomings and advantages. Plastid transformations with various constructs, mainly using the aadA gene as a selective marker, were performed. We point to potential problems likely to be encountered during the transformation and selection processes and offer possibilities for improvement. We give further examples of the successful application of plastome transformation and show its merits in addressing biological questions concerning the elucidation of plastid sequences of unknown function and the control of plastid gene expression.
42568705|Cholera toxin subunit (CTB) has the potential to be an effective adjuvant for mucosal vaccines because of its ability to increase antigen uptake and presentation by antigen-presenting cells through GM1-ganglioside binding. CTB has been produced using different recombinant protein expression systems. This study used the geminiviral replicon system to transiently express CTB in Nicotiana benthamiana. The plant-optimized CTB gene was cloned into a geminiviral vector and infiltrated into N. benthamiana leaves. The highest CTB protein level was observed on day 4 with approximately 4 g/g fresh weight. The Western blot analysis using anti-CTB suggests assembly of CTB into oligomers. Based on the GM1-ELISA results, this CTB transiently expressed in plants showed biological activity for binding the intestinal epithelial cell membrane glycolipid receptor, GM1-glanglioside, which implies its potential as an adjuvant for mucosal vaccines.
4293075|Five parameters were examined for their effect on transformation of Dendrobium tissues by microprojectile bombardment. The superpromoter in pBI426 produced at least 1.5 times as many transient transformants as the single cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter in pBI121 (37 to 69% vs. 0 to 44%) with dark and frequent GUS (
20461642|In the present study, the procedures for induction of somatic embryogenesis (SE) in an in vitro culture of the tulip have been developed. SE was initiated on flower stem explants isolated from "Apeldoorn" bulbs during their low-temperature treatment. Bulbs had not been chilled or had been chilled for 12 or 24 weeks at 5C. The explants were cultured with exogenous auxins 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid (Picloram), -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) at 1-100 M and cytokinins: benzyladenine (BA) and zeatin (ZEA) at 0.5-50 M. Increase in auxin concentrations caused an intensive enlargement of the explant parenchyma, which changed into homogenous colorless callus. On the same media, vein bundles developed into yellowish, nodular callus. Picloram was more efficient in inducing the formation of embryogenic nodular callus than 2,4-D, whereas the latter stimulated formation of colorless callus. The base of the lower part of the flower stem isolated from bulbs chilled for 12 weeks proved to be the best explant for callus formation. The highest number of somatic embryos was produced on medium with 25 M Picloram and 0.5 M BA. Development of adventitious roots was noticed in the presence of 2,4-D. Globular embryos developed into torpedo stage embryos under the influence of BA (5 M) and NAA (0.5 M). Morphological and anatomical data describing development of callus and somatic embryos are presented.
4293525|Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of Arabidopsis, ecotype 'Estland', was established from root explants using kanamycin selection. Continuous light during callus and shoot induction phases was promotive for shoot regeneration, as compared to light/dark cycles. Use of optimized conditions for transformation led to the formation of kanamycin-resistant calluses (up to 77%) and transformed plantlets at a frequency of up to 45%. Southern analysis showed the presence of 1, 2, or more T-DNA inserts in 33%, 50%, and 17% of the primary transformants, respectively. Mendelian, as well as non-Mendelian, inheritance patterns were obtained upon screening the progeny (T1) of various transformants for the expression of gus and nptII genes; the analysis of some of these transformants at the molecular level also corroborated the Mendelian inheritance pattern. Moreover, genotypes of the T1 progeny could be predicted on the basis of T2 progeny analysis.
4293255|Significant progress has been made toward commercial implementation of a large-scale somatic embryogenesis (SE) production process for spruce somatic embryos. The major emphasis was to overlay the established principles and disciplines of "Manufacturing Resource Planning" (MRP) onto the original laboratory-scale protocols used to produce spruce SE and SE products. This approach required extensive and precise characterization of the inputs, actions, labor requirements, and quantification of the resulting outputs for each process step. In addition, computerized process and inventory tracking programs were developed and incorporated. The information collected enabled identification and clear understanding of the biological and physical constraints within the process, and enabled optimization of SE production planning, costing and scheduling activities. Standard operating procedures (SOPs) for each step of the SE process were developed and implemented. The net effect was the productivity of the scaled laboratory spruce SE process was increased by more than 300% without any additional labor inputs, while the direct cost-of-production for a "finished" somatic seedling was reduced by more than 70%.
42568793|The biolistic method is reliable for delivering genes of interest into various species, but low transformation efficiency can be a limiting factor in its application. To test various conditions that could improve peanut transformation via particle bombardment, embryogenic tissues of the peanut cultivar Georgia Green were co-bombarded with two plasmids: one containing a green fluorescent protein gene and one containing a gene of interest plus a selectable marker. The fluorescence in bombarded embryogenic tissues was measured to evaluate transformation efficiency. A 4.6-fold improvement of transformation efficiency was achieved in stably transformed peanut lines by introducing protamine instead of conventional spermidine in a bombardment mixture with 70 ng/shot plasmid DNA and 50 g/shot gold.Unexpectedly, the reduction of plasmid DNA from 700 to 70 ng/shot produced transgenic lines with significantly increased numbers of transgene copies. To determine the transgene copy number during plantlet regeneration, relative quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) was established using fluorescently labeled universal library probes. A correlation of 95% was found for estimation of copy number between Southern blot and qPCR data. Given its speed and high-throughput nature, qPCR can be employed as an effective screening tool to separate high copy number events from low copy number events as early as the shoot formation stage of regeneration.
41496445|Based on the results of carbon source consumption in cell suspension culture of Panax quinquefolium L., 30 g L sucrose was fed into a 5-L stirred tank bioreactor on day 16 of culture to enhance cell density and metabolite production. Using a fed-batch cultivation strategy, polysaccharide production was enhanced to 1.608 g L, which was 1.96-fold greater than with batch cultivation. The maximum saponin yield (7.828 mg L) was obtained on day 24 and was about 36% higher than the yields obtained using batch cultivation. In a two-stage culture process, a combined treatment with sucrose, lactoalbumin hydrolysate, and methyl jasmonate caused a significant increase in total saponin yield (31.52 mg L) in cell cultures after 27 d. This value represents an increase of 4.03-fold compared with the total saponin yield in fed-batch cultivation. The two-stage culture mode provided the best method for the in vitro production of secondary metabolites from P. quinquefolium.
4293349| Factors influencing successful establishment of embryogenic cell-suspension cultures and plant regeneration from long-term cell suspension-derived protoplasts of the recalcitrant Indica rice cultivar IR36 were studied. The factors included cell and protoplast culture medium, protoplast culture procedure, the source of nurse cells, and the regeneration procedure. Embryogenic cell suspension cultures could only be established from mature seed-derived callus of IR36 in AA-based medium (Mller and Grafe, 1978). Protoplast-derived colonies could be obtained only using the filter-membrane nurse-culture procedure when Lolium multiflorum suspension cells served as nurse, rather than wild rice (Oryza ridleyi) and Japonica rice (Oryza sativa cv. Taipei 309) cells. The utilization of a two-step regeneration procedure led to regeneration of fertile plants from protoplasts isolated from 2-yr-old cell suspensions of IR36, one of the most important but recalcitrant rice cultivars. 
4293695|The glutathione-glutathione disulfide redox pair was utilized to improve white spruce somatic embryo development. Mature cotyledonary-stage somatic embryos were divided into two groups (A and B) based on morphological normality and the ability of the mature somatic embryos to convert into plantlets. Group A embryos had four or more cotyledons and converted readily upon germination after a partial drying treatment. Group B embryos had three or fewer cotyledons with a low conversion frequency. The addition of reduced glutathione (GSH) at a concentration of 0.1 mM resulted in an increase in embryo production (total population) with a mean total number of 64 embryos per l00 mg embryogenic tissue as well as an increase in post-embryonic root growth. However, at a higher concentration (1 mM), GSH inhibited embryo formation. The manipulation of the tissue culture environment via the inclusion of glutathione disulfide (GSSG), at concentrations of 0.1 and 1.0 mM, enhanced the development of better-quality embryos. This quality was best exemplified when embryos forming four or more cotyledons increased by at least twofold to 73.9% when treated with 1.0 mM GSSG, compared to 38% in control. Furthermore, this improved quality was reflected by an increased conversion frequency. A 20% increase in the ability of the somatic embryo to produce both root and shoot structures during post-embryonic development was noted when embryos were matured on maturation medium supplemented with 1.0 mM GSSG over the control.
20461572|Transgenic anti-fungal gene expression in heterologous species provides a means to test resistance protein combinations across species barriers. This is the first report of transgenic anti-fungal seed storage protein accumulation in oat seed. An anti-fungal barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) hordothionin (Hth1) gene was genetically engineered into oat (Avena sativa L.) to determine the effect of hordothionin on pathogen resistance. The transgene was expressed in both leaf and seed tissue, with transgenic protein accumulation occurring only in the seed. Transgenic oat line HTH-Av5 expressed c. 94 g HTH/g seed, 19% of native barley seed levels. The anti-fungal activities of HTH fractions from barley cv. Morex and oat (transgenic and control) were tested in an in vitro growth assay against an important small grain pathogen, Fusarium graminearum. The partially purified HTH fractions from control oat seeds did not inhibit fungal growth, while HPLC-purified HTH positive control, as well as partially purified barley and transgenic oat HTH inhibited growth similarly over a range of concentrations. These results indicate hordothionin can be expressed in a heterologous cereal species and still maintain its anti-fungal properties. Future studies with HTH targeted to additional tissues are planned to test for increased fungal resistance.
23016612|In vitro shoots from mature tree explants often show poor root initiation response. Garcinia species are known for vegetative propagation through root suckers in natural environment. To establish a protocol for clonal propagation, apical and intercalary buds of the root suckers obtained from a mature elite tree of Garcinia indica were used as explant source. Multiple shoots were initiated in woody plant medium fortified with combinations of 6-benzylaminopurine and 1-phenyl-3-(1,2,3-Thiadiazol-5-YL)-urea. A pulse treatment of indole-3-butyric acid ranging from 4.9 to 19.6 mM for 30 s and 1 min was tried for root induction. The resulting in vitro plants were successfully hardened. The initiated shoots were also used for in vitro synthesis of hydroxycitric acid in shake flask cultures. The effect of basal medium, incubation period and plant growth regulators on production of hydroxycitric acid in vitro was studied.
4293417| Adventitious shoot buds were induced directly on the adaxial surface of the cotyledons of eight safflower cultivars after 14 d of culture initiation on Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium supplemented with various levels of 6-benzylaminopurine (BA). Maximum shoot organogenesis of 54.4% with 10.2 shoots per responding cotyledon was obtained with 8.87 M BA in the cv. S-144. Regenerated shoots were classified into three groups on the basis of their morphological features and were found to be correlated with the levels of BA. The highest number of normal shoots was obtained from 2.2 M BA treatment. The regenerated shoots of group I (normal shoots) were rooted on half-strength MS medium supplemented with 5.3 M -naphthaleneacetic acid, 3% sucrose and 0.8% bacto-agar. Rooted plantlets were successfully transferred to soil and appeared morphologically normal. Histological studies revealed that shoot buds originated adventitiously from subepidermal cells. 
29736208|Barley, an important member of the cereals, has been successfully transformed through various methods such as particle bombardment, Agrobacterium tumefaciens, DNA uptake, and electroporation. Initially, the transformation in barley concentrated on developing protocols using marker genes such as gus, bar, and hpt. Immature embryos and callus derived from immature embryos were targeted for transformation. Subsequently, genes of agronomic and malting importance have been deployed in barley. Particle bombardment appears to be the preferred choice for barley transformation in the majority of the reports, although Agrobacterium-mediated transformation is being used more often. The current review focuses on the challenges encountered in barley transformation such as somaclonal variation, development of transformation systems for commercial cultivars, gene expression, stability and inheritance, and gene flow. Newer markers such as the green fluorescent protein (gfp), firefly luciferase, and phosphomannose isomerase were found to be useful in the selection of transgenic plants. Tissue-specific promoters such as those for B1-hordein and D-hordein genes, and spike-specific promoters, are increasingly used to drive gene expression. The review also describes recent research on gene-tagging through transformation, insertion of disease resistance, and abiotic stress resistance genes, transformation with genes for improved malting quality, nutrient content, feed quality, and the production of feed enzymes and pharmaceutical compounds.
4293387|Citrus somatic hybridization and cybridization via protoplast fusion has become an integral part of citrus variety improvement programs worldwide. Citrus somatic hybrid plants have been regenerated from more than 200 parental combinations, and several cybrid combinations have also been produced. Applications of somatic hybridization to citrus scion improvement include the production of quality tetraploid breeding parents that can be used in interploid crosses to generate seedless triploids, and the direct production of triploids by haploid + diploid fusion. Applications of somatic hybridization to citrus rootstock improvement include the production of allotetraploid hybrids that combine complementary diploid rootstocks, and to combine citrus with sexually incompatible or difficult to hybridize genera that possess traits of interest for germplasm expansion. A few somatic hybrid tetraploid breeding parents have flowered, are fertile, and are being used as pollen parents to generate triploids. Several allotetraploid somatic hybrid rootstocks are performing well in commercial field trials, and show great promise for tree size control. Seed trees of most of these somatic hybrid rootstocks are producing adequate nucellar seed for standard propagation. Somatic hybridization is expected to have a positive impact on citrus cultivar improvement efforts.
4293651|Somatic embryos could be induced from embryogenic callus originating from mesocotyl as well as leaf-base segments of Paspalum scrobiculatum on Murashige and Skoog (MS) or Chu et al. (N
4293032|A highly regenerable target tissue and a high-frequency DNA delivery system are required for the routine production of transgenic barley. This project separately optimized tissue culture and particle bombardment parameters. Immature zygotic embryos (0.7 to 1.2 mm) were excised and cultured on B5L solid medium. Klages and H930-36 cultivars regenerated significantly more green plants than Sabarlis and Bruce. The regeneration pathway shifted from organogenesis to somatic embryogenesis when maltose was used as the medium carbohydrate source instead of sucrose. More somatic embryos were induced on 5 mg/liter 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid than 2 mg/liter. Gene delivery was optimized using anthocyanin regulatory genes as a transient marker. A 3-mm rupture disc-to-macrocarrier gap distance, a 1-day prebombardment embryo culture period, and a maltose carbohydrate source were each significantly better than other treatments. Double bombardments per plate, a 6-mm macrocarrier fly distance, and 650-psi rupture discs each had the highest number of transiently expressing cells in individual experiments, although the results were not statistically significant compared to the other treatments. Using the optimized parameters, over 200 cells routinely expressed anthocyanin in a bombarded immature embryo. In tissue culture experiments, 350 to 400 green plants regenerated per 100 immature embryos. The improvement of green plant regeneration and gene delivery forms a strong basis to develop a practical barley transformation system.
40793160|An efficient procedure has been developed for inducing somatic embryogenesis and regeneration of plants from tissue cultures of oil palm (Elaeis guineensis Jacq.). Thin transverse sections (thin cell layer expiants) of different position in the shoot apex and leaf sheath of oil palm were cultivated in Murashige and Skoog (MS) (Physiol Plant 15: 473-497, 1962) medium supplemented with 0-450 M picloram and 2,4-D with 3.0% sucrose, 500 mg L glutamine, and 0.3 gL activated charcoal and gelled with 2.5 gL Phytagel. Embryognie calluses were evaluated 12 wk after inoculation. Picloram (450 M) was effective in inducing embryogenic calluses in 41.5% of the basal explants. Embryogenic calluses were maintained on a maturation medium composed of basal media, plus 0.6 M NAA and 12.30 M 2iP, 0.3 gL activated charcoal, and 500 mg L glutamine, with subcultures at 4-wk intervals. Somatic embryos were converted to plants on MS medium with macro-and micronutrients at half-strength, 2% sucrose, and 1.0 gL activated charcoal and gelled with 2.5 gL Phytagel.
41432448|The effect of sap sucrose concentration on fruit expansion is poorly understood. We investigated the effects of sucrose concentration on growth of tomato fruits, detached from the plant after the cell multiplication phase. A semi-open device was built to grow detached fruits, where the fruit pedicel was immersed in a nutrient solution which was automatically replaced each day. About 22 d after anthesis, tomato fruits were harvested, disinfected in alcohol, and placed in the device with a sterile nutrient solution containing 5% sucrose. After about 1 wk, the sucrose concentration was either increased to 15% or maintained at 5%. The fruit expansion rate decreased when the sucrose concentration was increased, and after about 1 wk, these fruits weighed less than those grown at 5% sucrose. Although all the fruits in the device grew much less than those maintained on the plant, a high sap sucrose concentration applied to the excised fruits after the cell multiplication phase inhibited the expansion of tomato fruits. The device and method developed here will be useful for future studies of fruit growth.
29736163|This study reports a protocol for high-efficiency plant regeneration from leaf explants of male Himalayan poplar (Populus ciliata Wall.). Shoots were regenerated at high frequencies from explants grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 0.5 mgl kinetin and 0.2 mgl indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Regenerated shoots developed roots in MS medium supplemented with 0.1 mgl IAA. Himalayan poplar plantlets could be produced within 2 mo. after acclimatization in a sterile mixture of sand and soil.
4293373|A simple, rapid and cost-effective in vitro scheme has been proposed for mass propagating two cultivars of Asiatic lily hybrids. An average of seven bulblets was formed after 17 d when
4293003|Billions of dollars each year are spent on the remediation of contaminated soils in the United States alone. Contaminated soils represent an economic liability as well as a technical challenge. New technologies are needed to address numerous contaminants, especially those that are neither volatile nor mobile in soil solutions. One emerging technology, "phytore-mediation", employs green plants in the remediation process. The technique is relatively new, with few field demonstrations; however, it represents an ever-growing area of research built on a sound technical basis. This technology draws heavily from a wide range of agronomic, biological, and engineering disciplines. Exploiting all plant-influenced biological, microbial, chemical, and physical processes to remediate contaminated sites is the goal of much research in this area. In certain situations, sites remediated with a plant-based technology are expected to have significant economic, aesthetic, and technical advantages over traditional engineering solutions. This paper provides an overview of the phytoremediation area with an emphasis on providing background information and research avenues to plant biologists.
20065021|Plant genetic transformation technologies rely upon the selection and recovery of transformed cells. Selectable marker genes used so far have been either antibiotic resistance genes or herbicide tolerance genes. There is a need to apply alternative principles of selection, as more transgenic traits have to be incorporated into a transgenic crop and because of concern that the use of conventional marker genes may pose a threat to humans and the environment. New classes of marker genes are now available, conferring metabolic advantage of the transgenic cells over the non-transformed cells. The new selection systems, as described in this review, are being used with success and superior performance over the traditional marker systems.
4293763| A protocol for large-scale propagation of Phragmites communis Trin. by adventitious bud formation and plant regeneration was established. Adventitious buds were induced through either the indirect pathway or the direct pathway from stem explants of Phragmites communis. In the indirect pathway, it was essential to decrease the level of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid from 9.1 to 0.5 M to induce adventitious buds and achieve plant regeneration. In the direct pathway, the effects of different benzylaminopurine (BA) concentrations in the medium, and different positions of the explants, on adventitious bud formation were determined. Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 5.4 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 53.4 M BA, and the bottom part of stem explants were most responsive for the differentiation of adventitious shoot buds. The highest differentiation frequency was 20-30 adventitious shoot buds per stem node tissue. Elongation and proliferation of adventitious buds were achieved on MS medium supplemented with 13.3 M BA and 5.4 M NAA. Shoots were rooted in liquid half-strength MS medium with 5.4 M NAA + 4.9 M indole-3-butyric acid. Rooted plants survived (87.5%) and grew well after transfer into soil for 4wk. More than 20000 regenerated plants of a salt-tolerant variant line of Phragmites communis have been produced. This protocol is useful for clonal micropropagation and possibly for Agrobacterium-mediated gene transfer in P. communis. 
4293907|Due to the commercial importance of some conifer species, advances in conifer biotechnology often appear to overshadow equally significant advances in the biotechnology of angiosperm forest trees. However, progress with some hardwood forest trees has been just as promising as that made with conifers, and in some areas, has surpassed conifer biotechnology, particularly in the past few years. Until relatively recently, progress with in vitro propagation and gene transfer in hardwood forest trees was confined primarily to the genus Populus. Similarly, compared to other hardwood species, the greatest progress has been made both in the areas of genomics and modification of wood quality traits in this genus. However, the advances in in vitro propagation, in general, and somatic embryogenesis, in particular, have brought mass clonal propagation of other top commercial hardwood trees, in particular Eucalyptus, closer to reality and gene transfer systems have been reported for a number of them. While by far the most extensive application of genomic tools, including genomic sequencing, expressed sequence tags, transcript profiling and molecular markers, has also been made with Populus, these tools are now being applied to wider range of hardwood species. Just as with conifers, potential biotechnology applications for hardwood forest species include development of trees with faster growth, altered wood quality, and insect and disease resistance. In addition, some hardwood species are being manipulated for such non-traditional uses as phytoremediation. Given these advances and the worldwide importance of the products derived from them, it is likely that in vitro propagated and transgenic hardwood forest trees will have just as great an impact on commercial forestry and our environment as the top coniferous species.
23016605|Efficient transformation of lilies is required for their genetic improvement in ornamental and marketable qualities. Although Lilium longiflorum can be transformed by particle bombardment and Agrobacterium, the transformation frequency is low. In this study, we tested new Agrobacterium-mediated transformation methods using shoot segments combined with two different regeneration systems. Shoot segments were co-cultivated for 2 d with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain AGL1/pCAS04 harboring a binary vector carrying the neomycin phosphotransferase II driven by a promoter from the maize ubiquitin gene. The effect of different concentrations of 6-benzyladenine (BA) and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) on regeneration was investigated. The results indicated that Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 4.4 M BA and 0.5 M -naphthalene acetic acid was optimal for shoot formation, and the nodal stem was the best explant for shoot induction. MS medium with 9.0 M 2,4-D and 0.4 M BA was optimal for callus induction. The direct shoot formation method regenerated 187 plantlets per 100 explants, and 74.4% of the regenerants were positive in transgene PCR. The callus regeneration method regenerated 20 plantlets per 100 explants, and 31.5% of them were PCR positive. Southern blotting confirmed the insertion of transgene in the plant host genome. The direct shoot formation method is more than 20-fold more efficient than previously reported transformation method in this species.
4293398| Several experiments were carried out to develop protocols for the in vitro propagation of pummelo (Citrus grandis L. Osbeck) using shoot-tip explants from seedlings. Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with various concentrations of 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and thidiazuron (TDZ), singly or in combination with -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), was used to determine the rate of shoot proliferation. The response of explants to all concentrations of TDZ was very poor. After 6 wk culture, the most adventitious shoots per explant (average 5.2) were obtained on medium supplemented with 1.8 M BA. NAA with cytokinin in the medium did not improve the rate of shoot multiplication significantly. Addition of 5.8 M gibberellic acid in shoot-proliferation medium during the second subculture improved shoot elongation significantly. Shoot multiplication increased 3.5-fold in each successive subculture. NAA was superior to indolebutyric acid for in vitro root induction. Over 75% of the shoots developed roots when transferred to half-strength MS medium with 1.3, 2.7, or 5.4 M NAA. 
20461553|Adventitious bud regeneration from leaf and internode explants of Aloysia polystachya was achieved. Shoots from nodal segments grown in vitro were cut into pieces and used as sources of explants. Organogenesis was induced from both explants cultured on quarter-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) semisolid medium (plus sucrose 5 g l) containing different combinations of 6-benzyladenine (BA) and -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) under 116 mol m s photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD), 14-h photoperiod, and at a temperature of 27  2C. The type of explant markedly influenced organogenesis and growth of the regenerated shoots. The regeneration frequencies were higher with leaf explants, while the number of shoots formed per responsive explant was greater with internode explants. However, the growth of regenerated shoots from internodes was seriously affected by vitrification. The number of shoots produced per responsive leaf explant increased from one to seven as the percentage of leaf explants producing shoots increased from 20 to more than 80%. NAA at 0.05 M in combination with BA at 0.5 M induced the highest regeneration rate (87  8.8%) after 20 d of culture, yielding 5.9  0.8 shoots per responsive leaf explant. Histological examination confirmed the occurrence of direct organogenesis. The regenerated shoots from the best induction treatment were transferred to a fresh medium without plant growth regulators for 30 d. Finally, the elongated shoots were rooted by pre-treatment in an aqueous solution of NAA at 500 M for 2 h and transferred to 1/4 MS. All plantlets raised in vitro were phenotypically normal and successfully hardened to ex vitro conditions. An experimental field plot with 2-yr-old in vitro-regenerated plants was established.
4293175|Histological methods have contributed significantly to our understanding of in vitro culture systems. A good histological study based on anatomical and histochemical changes provides insight into cellular processes and provides clues that allow for the proposal of hypotheses for further experimentation. This article serves to draw attention to the use of a histological approach to one's experimental system. Some of the common mistakes in the handling and processing of explants are discussed. A protocol for the plastic embedding method is detailed.
20461579|The effect of different cytokinins on in vitro adventitious shoot regeneration from internodal explants of Mentha  gracilis Sole (scotch spearmint) was investigated. Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 100 mg l myo-inositol, 0.4 mg l thiamine-HCl, 2.0% (w/v) sucrose, 10% (v/v) coconut water and supplemented with 4.5 M thidiazuron (TDZ) was effective in inducing adventitious shoot formation from callus. The greatest percentage of explants with shoots (85%) with the highest mean number of shoots per explant (29) was obtained with explants from the 1st and the 2nd internodes from 2-wk-old stock plants growing on a medium containing MS basal salts, 2% sucrose, 100 mg l myo-inositol, 0.4 mg l thiamine-HCl, at TDZ 4.5 M and 10% (v/v) coconut water and solidified with 0.2% (w/v) phytagel. The regenerated shoots rooted on a medium containing MS basal salts, 100 mg l myo-inositol, 0.4 mg l thiamine-HCl, 2.0% sucrose, and 0.054 M naphthalene acetic acid (NAA). Micropropagated plantlets were transplanted into soil and acclimated to greenhouse conditions. This is the first report describing adventitious shoot regeneration of scotch spearmint.
40663767|The present study reports a simple protocol for indirect shoot organogenesis and plant regeneration of Sutherlandia using rachis and stem segments. Different concentrations (0.0-68.08 mol 1 ) of thidiazuron (TDZ) were used for callus induction and shoot organogenesis. The highest percentage of callus formation (97.5%) and the highest percentage of expiants forming shoots (88.8%) were obtained from rachis expiants cultured onto Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (Murashige and Skoog, Physiol. Plant. 15: 473-495, 1962) supplemented with 45.41 mol 1 TDZ. Scanning electron microscopy demonstrated the early development of adventitious shoots derived from callus cultures. Shoot clusters were further developed and grown in MS hormone-free medium. The presence of L-canavanine was determined by thin-layer chromatography and confirmed after column fractionation using silica gel and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Individual shoots were rooted on different concentrations and combinations of MS salt strength and IBA. Half-strength MS salt medium supplemented with 24.6 mol 1 IBA was optimal for root induction in which 78% of shoots were rooted. The in vitro plants were successfully acclimatized in a growth chamber with a 90% survival rate.
4293120| The effect of polyethylene glycol (PEG) combined with abscisic acid (ABA) and KC1 on somatic embryo development in loblolly pine was investigated. Two embryogenic cell lines, which had not produced cotyledonary stage embryos using previously published methods, were employed in this study. As a maturation medium, basal medium was supplemented with 0 to 10% PEG (MW 3350), 10 to 40 mg/l (37.8 to 151.3 M) ABA, 0 or 10 mM KC1, 1.5 g/l activated charcoal, 30 g/l sucrose, and 6 g/l agar. Without PEG in the maturation medium, most somatic embryos at stage 1 could not mature further. Embryogenic tissues on the maturation medium with 5 to 7.5% PEG consistently produced stage 2 and stage 3 somatic embryos. PEG at 10% significantly decreased the number of stage 2 and 3 embryos compared to PEG at 5 to 7.5%. ABA at 40 mg/l (151.3 M), combined with 7.5% PEG and 10 mM KC1, gave the maximum number of stage 3 embryos in both cell lines. ABA at 10 mg/1 (37.8 M) induced an over-proliferation of embryogenic tissues and generally failed to produce mature embryos. KC1 also significantly enhanced initial stage embryo formation and subsequent embryo maturation. 
29736184|Shoots of the marubakaido apple rootstock grown in culture medium containing BBL agar presented significantly lower multiplication rate (MR) compared to MRs found for shoots grown in medium containing A-7002, A-7921, Select,, and Phytagar as gelling agents. In addition, significant hyperhydricity was found for shoots grown in Phytagar and A-7921 agar-containing media. Analysis of elastic (G) and viscous (G) modulus showed that for all of the five agar brands used in this Study, G was always much higher, i.e., typically one order of magnitude higher than G, which characterizes a strong gel. G changed randomly with time for all of the agar brands studied, except for BBL, which presented progressive decline in G throughout the culture cycle. Examination of G, within the same week, showed that Select agar always had the smallest G, while Phytagar always had the highest G. Analysis of the loss tangent (tan =G/G), a better indicator for gel behavior compared to G isolated, showed that tan  for Select and Phytagar were always between tan  values found for A-7002 and BBL. In addition, analysis of tan  also indicated that BBL and Select agars showed a significantly weaker gel network, compared to Phytagar, A-7002 and A-7921 agars after the third week of culture. When seen together, these results indicate that shoot performance for the murubakaido rootstock is not related to agar gel strength. In addition, the high hyperhydricity rate found for shoots grown on agars A-7921 and Phytagar could not be related to agar gel strength, as well. Analysis of HPSEC profiles indicated that the best performance, i.e., multiplication rate, of marubakaido shoots in agars A-7002 and A-7921 is likely to be related to their lower polydispersity and/or smaller amount of high molecular weight fractions, compared to BBL, Phytagar, and Select agars.
4293655|This is the first communication of direct shoot regeneration from fully developed leaves of potted mature Echinacea purpurea plants. Shoot buds were induced directly on the adaxial surface of mature leaf tissues of E. purpurea 30 d after culture initiation on Woody Plant Medium (WPM) supplemented with various levels of 6-benzyladenine (BA). Maximum shoot organogenesis, with 12-20 shoots per leaf segment, was obtained with 5% coconut milk and
20171602| Genetic engineering of cereals currently depends on the use of tissue culture and plant regeneration systems. In wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), immature embryos are the most widely used explant to initiate cultures, but they are inconvenient due to their temporal availability and production requirements. Mature embryos are easily stored and are readily available as mature seeds. However, plant regeneration frequencies from cultures derived from mature embryos are generally low. This research was undertaken to improve callus induction and plant regeneration from wheat mature embryos of cultivar 'Bobwhite'. The effects of four auxins [2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D); 3,6-dichloro-o-anisic acid (dicamba); 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid (picloram); and 2-(2-methyl-4-chlorophenoxy) propionic acid (2-MCPP)], and the effect of maltose vs. sucrose under filter-sterilized and autoclaved conditions were evaluated. All auxin treatments resulted in callus induction except 2-MCPP. A highly significant effect of auxin type on both callus and plantlet production was detected, though interactions were observed. The effect of sugar type was dependent on the type of auxin used. Substitution of sucrose by maltose enhanced the regeneration ability of callus from embryos cultured on media containing 2,4-D and picloram, but caused an opposite effect on media containing dicamba. Picloram significantly enhanced callus growth, however, embryogenic response and plant regenerability were low. Relative to 2,4-D, dicamba (18 M) resulted in a two-fold increase in the number of plants regenerated per embryo and reduced the amount of time required for plant regeneration by 3-4 wk. 
42568703|The Anacardiaceae family comprises tropical and subtropical deciduous trees with growing economic potential namely, Pistacia vera L. (pistachio), Mangifera indica L. (mango), Anacardium occidentale L. (cashew), and Sclerocarya birrea (A. Rich.) Hochst, subsp. caffra (Sond.) Kokwaro (manila). The rich gene pool offered by their respective wide genetic diversity as well as the greater adaptation to semi-arid environments makes these species ideal candidates for the development of future commercial cultivars. Some notable achievements have been recorded in the micropropagation of these Anacardiaceae species in the order M. indica > P. vera > A. occidentale > S. birrea subsp. caffra. This review highlights advances, challenges, and future prospects in micropropagation research of these Anacardiaceae family members for the past three decades. In addition, the review discusses the potential of liquid cultures and synthetic seed encapsulation technologies in the development of future research strategies.
40663771|An efficient protocol for adventitious root induction from leaf expiants of Morinda citrifolia treated with different concentrations of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) was established in relation to physiological process changes during adventitious root induction under different light sources (fluorescent, red, blue, red + blue, and far-red). Among the different concentrations of IB A and NAA, 1.0 mg 1 IBA was proven as the best auxin source for adventitious root induction under fluorescent light. Higher concentrations of IBA and NAA trigger callus formation in both light and dark conditions. Maximum numbers of adventitious roots were induced under red light (26) followed by blue light (22) and the lowest under far-red light (6). In contrast, numerous callus formations were induced by red + blue followed by red and blue, while the highest root length (1.66 cm) with negligible callusing was observed under fluorescent light. Catalase and guaicacol peroxidase activities were highest under red light followed by fluorescent light and the lowest under red + blue light, but Superoxide dismutase activity was not significantly influenced by different light sources. Ascorbate peroxidase played an important role in detoxification of the harmful effects of hydrogen peroxide (HO). Under fluorescent light, significantly lower accumulation of HO was observed. Accumulation of HO in the induced root under different light showed a positive correlation with peroxidation of lipids and was observed higher under far-red followed by red + blue and blue light.
4293234|Ethylene is a plant growth regulator that is known to influence in vitro morphogenesis. This study investigated the effects of three ethylene inhibitors, silver nitrate (AgNO
4293679|The influences of various carbohydrate sources, dried yeast (DY), and 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) were estimated on growth and development of shoot tip-derived suspension cells of phalaenopsis orchid. Among the carbohydrates tested on Doriataenopsis cultured on gelled medium, glucose at 58.4 mM gave the highest efficiency of protocorm-like body (PLB) formation. Maltose and sorbitol only induced PLB formation without callus proliferation. Sucrose induced comparable callus proliferation to glucose but without PLB formation. In contrast, fructose resulted in half the amount of callus proliferation as occurred with glucose. Lactose was an inadequate carbon source as neither PLB formation nor callus proliferation occurred. DY enhanced cell proliferation at
20461600|We report an improved procedure of in vitro propagation of Scrophularia yoshimurae -- a medicinally important plant species indigenous to Taiwan. Induction of maximum shoot buds (22.75 per explant) was obtained with shoot tip explant cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 1.0 mg l benzyladenine (BA) and 0.2 mg l -naphthaleneacetic acid and gelrite using dispense paper (DP) for ventilation closure of culture vessels. The type of gelling agents (agar and Gelrite) affected both quantity and quality of the shoots induced. Using aluminum foil for ventilation closure resulted in a higher number of hyperhydric shoots. Hyperhydricity was reduced by culturing shoots on a medium devoid of plant growth regulators in conjunction with the use of DP. Plantlet growth in vessels using DP was healthier and all plantlets survived after being transplanted to soil.
20461580|Hybrid embryos resulting from crosses between a highly regenerable maize germplasm (Hi II) and certain elite inbreds were treated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens containing the uidA (GUS) and pat genes under the control of different constitutive promoters. Six of the elite inbred lines were derived from a Lancaster background and three were derived from an Iowa Stiff Stalk background. Hybrid embryos from all three Stiff Stalk lines gave transgenic events at various frequencies, two of them at a comparable frequency to that observed with Hi II embryos. Embryos from only one Lancaster/Hi II hybrid were successfully transformed and the frequency was quite low. Additional Lancaster elite inbreds were then tested as a hybrid with Hi II and failed to produce a single transgenic event. The transgenic Hi II/elite events showed many characteristics of 'hybrid vigor' including more aggressive rooting, thicker stems, and taller stature than plants derived from Hi II events. The hybrid T plants exhibited excellent tassel development in the greenhouse with abundant pollen shed. Seed set in the greenhouse was significantly (3-5-fold) higher than with Hi II transformants. Attempts to transform embryos derived from self or sibling crosses of the four inbred lines that were successful as hybrids with Hi II did not produce any transgenic events. T plants having 50% elite genomic contribution perform nearly as well in the greenhouse as seed-derived elite inbred parents and offer a significantly reduced time line for recombinant protein product development from transgenic plants.
41496507|A regeneration system was developed for oriental lily (Lilium orientalis) based on both leaf and bulb scale. Adventitious shoots were regenerated from leaves of vitro cultures on Murashige and Skoog medium containing thidiazuron (TDZ) or 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The highest percent regeneration from leaf expiants was 74.2%, being observed on medium containing 10.8 M TDZ and 0.54 M NAA. The highest mean number of shoots generated was 4.4 and was obtained from bulb scale explants on medium containing 0.54 M TDZ and 0.54 M NAA. Adventitious shoots were successfully rooted at rates ranging from 79.2% to 100%. The rooted plantlets survived after acclimatization in the greenhouse. The effect of kanamycin concentration on adventitious shoot regeneration was also evaluated, a value of 100 mg l being suggested as a lethal dose for lily transformation. Eighteen ISSR markers were employed to determine the genetic stability of the regenerated shoots in comparison to their mother plant. Eleven primers in total produced 70 clear and reproducible bands. Genetic similarity indicators among the clonal derivatives and the mother plant ranged from 0.92 to 1.0. All 15 micropropagated progenies and the mother plant could be grouped together in one major cluster with a similarity level of 92%. The somaclonal variation rate across the plantlets was estimated as 4.2%, indicating that direct shoot formation from expiant regeneration is a safe method for multiplication of "true-to-type" plants.
4293090| Two regenerative alfalfa genotypes were transformed with Agrobacterium tumefaciens with binary vectors containing the coding sequences for -glucuronidase (GUS) and npt II (kanamycin resistance). The regenerative genotypes and their transgenic populations were agronomically inferior, and one was a somaclonal variant for flower color. GUS was used as a dominant genetic marker in a model system for studying backcrossing to improve transgenic alfalfa. Agronomic yield deficiencies and somaclonal changes were corrected by one to three backcrosses to cultivar genotypes, depending on the vigor of the original transformant. Three backcrosses were considered optimal because progeny contain 94% cultivar germplasm and could be used as parents of a new cultivar. Use of different cultivar genotypes each generation of back-crossing minimized inbreeding and maximized the heterotic potential of backcross derivatives. The improvement of transgenic alfalfa by backcrossing using a dominant marker required only as much time as the original transformation experiment. 
41432835|The effectiveness of thidiazuron (TDZ) in promoting in vitro organogenesis in cultured embryo axes and cotyledons from two Spanish Mediterranean provenances of Pinus pinaster Aiton is reported. Application of 44.4 M TDZ as a 6-d pulse on DCR medium and subsequent transference of maritime pine expiants to the same medium without growth regulators, but supplemented with activated charcoal, produced between 17 and 19 axillary shoots per embryo axis with no differences between the two provenances.The same sequential treatment allowed adventitious shoot differentiation on 75% of the cotyledons, with a mean of 12.2 shoots regenerated per explant. Axillary and adventitious shoots were rooted ex vitro after an auxin pulse of indole-3-butyric acid and 1-naphthaleneacetic acid. The micropropagation protocols presented here should enable vegetative multiplication of selected families, and elite trees from these Spanish Mediterranean provenances of maritime pine.
29736210|Agrobacterium rhizogenes strain K599 (pRi2659), a causative agent of hairy root disease, effectively induces hairy root formation in a variety of plant species, including numerous soybean (Glycine max) cultivars. Because Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of soybean remains challenging and labor intensive, K599 appeared a suitable progenitor for new agrobacteria strains for plant transformation. In this paper, we report the disarming and sequencing of pRi2659 and the usefulness of the resulting disarmed strain in plant transformation studies of Arabidopsis thaliana, maize (Zea mays), tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum), and soybean (G. max).
4293028| Somatic embryogenesis has been shown to be an imperfect recapitulation of stages involved to form embryos from vegetative tissues. Although abscisic acid has been implicated in normalizing development, studies that specifically investigate conversion (vegetative leaf initiation) in somatic embryos are lacking. This report documents a follow-up of a study that implicated abscisic acid as a vital factor in allowing embryos of Daucus carota to progress to the plantlet stage. Abscisic acid was determined to enhance conversion at doses ranging from 1 to 50 M. Younger embryo stages were more responsive to abscisic acid application with regards to plantlet recovery. Pulses of abscisic acid were shown to elicit more rapid response with younger embryo stages, indicating more plastic development. Fluridone, an abscisic acid synthesis inhibitor, was shown to dramatically reduce conversion, even at low doses (<5 M). When abscisic acid was applied concurrently with fluridone, partial restoration of conversion was observed. Histologically, fluridone was seen to cause pronounced vacuolation in the shoot apical notch which resulted in the loss of meristematic cells, negating conversion capacity. Quantitation of total cytoplasmic area showed that abscisic acid reduced vacuolar intrusion into the apical notch, while fluridone caused a significant increase in vacuolation of cells in this region. This report documents further evidence of a role for abscisic acid in plantlet establishment from somatic embryos of Daucus carota. 
23326871|In order to optimize plant regeneration techniques for bulbing fennel [Foeniculum vulgare Mill. subsp. vulgare var. azoricum (Mill.) Thell] via somatic embryogenesis, three different media were tested on four Sicilian fennel ecotypes derived from seed collections. Plant regeneration was obtained through the use of immature inflorescences as explants. Through comparison of different auxins, naphthoxyacetic acid resulted in high-level induction of embryogenic callus at the lowest concentration (4 M), in combination with 6-benzylaminopurine or thidiazuron. After germination of somatic embryos, regenerated plantlets were recovered on medium containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog salts and vitamins in the absence of plant growth regulators. Regenerated plants were successfully acclimatized (70 %) in a growth chamber prior to transplantation into an open field. The plants appeared phenotypically normal, and both genetic stability and uniformity were confirmed by random amplified polymorphism DNA analysis. The results represent a significant advance on previous reports, due to the high embryogenic ability of immature inflorescence from different ecotypes and the high percentage of regenerated plantlets acclimatized in ex vitro conditions.
41496517|Nodal expiants of rice cultivar Pathumthani 1 (PT1; short-day photoperiod insensitive) were collected, surface-disinfected, and cultured on modified MS medium under in vitro conditions for 90 d. A total of 60% nodal expiants generated flowering plantlets (with one inflorescence per cluster). The net photosynthetic rate was greater, and soluble sugars (including glucose, fructose, and sucrose) accumulated to higher levels in the leaves of flowering as compared to non-flowering plants. In contrast, chlorophyll a, chlorophyll b, total chlorophyll, and total carotenoid content were enriched to a greater degree in the leaves of non-flowering as compared to flowering plants. Also, growth performance parameters, including plant height, number of leaves per plant, leaf area, fresh weight, and dry weight of plantlets derived from seedlings were superior to those of plantlets derived from nodal explants. In addition, the protocol proved to successfully induce flowering in KDML 105, a short-day photoperiod-sensitive rice cultivar.
20541003|Phyllanthus amarus Schum & Thonn. is a source of various pharmacologically active compounds such as phyllanthin, hypophyllanthin, gallic acid, catechin, and nirurin, a flavone glycoside. A genetic transformation method using Agrobacterium tumefaciens was developed for this plant species for the first time. Shoot tips of full grown plants were used as explants for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Transgenic plants were obtained by co-cultivation of shoot tips explants and A. tumefaciens strain LBA4404 containing the pCAMBIA 2301 plasmid harboring neomycin phosphotransferase II (NPT II) and -glucuronidase encoding (GUS) genes in the T-DNA region in the presence of 200 M acetosyringone. Integration of the NPT II gene into the genome of transgenic plants was verified by PCR and Southern blot analyses. Expression of the NPT II gene was confirmed by RT-PCR analysis. An average of 25 explants was used, out of which an average of 19 explants produced kanamycin-resistant shoots, which rooted to produce 13 complete transgenic plants.
4293459| A protocol for rapid in vitro propagation using nodal explants obtained from 2-yr-old, field-grown medicinal plants of Plumbago zeylanica L. belonging to the family Plumbaginaceae is described. High frequency bud break and fast development of shoots were induced on Murashige and Skoog's basal medium supplemented with 27.2 M adenine sulfate +2.46 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). Induction of rooting was achieved by transferring the shoots to the same basal medium containing 4.92 M IBA. Using our protocol from one twig of P. zeylanica (eight responsive nodes per explant shoot) within a period of 5 mo., eight plantlets could be raised. After a hardening period of 4 wk, there was a 90% transplantation success in the field compared to the 60-65% survival of plantlets recorded in the experiments of previous workers. The plantlets derived through in vitro propagation mimic the growth and morphological characteristics of the donor plants. 
20064937|A three-step medium sequence was developed for rooting microcuttings of American chestnut [Castanea dentata (Marsh.) Borkh.]. First, individual shoots or clumps of shoots were cultivated on shoot-elongation medium for 4-8 wk until shoots were 2-3 cm long. The medium consisted of modified Woody Plant Medium, 500 mg/l polyvinylpyrrolidone (MW 40,000), and 0.89 M benzyladenine. Microcuttings were then excised, vertically split at the base to approximately 2 mm through the pith, dipped in 5 or 10 mM indolebutyric acid for 1 min, and cultivated on half-strength Murashige and Skoog basal medium plus 0.2 g/l charcoal for 2 wk. During that time, roots were induced and became visible. Finally, the microcuttings were transferred back to shoot-elongation medium and cultivated for 3 wk, allowing growth of both roots and shoots. Using this protocol with 3 genotypes derived from one mature tree and two 1-yr-old seedlings, 57 to 73% rooting was obtained with less than 23% shoot-tip necrosis.
4293388|An alternative method for transforming sweet orange [Citrus sinensis (L.) Osbeck] has been developed. Plasmid DNA encoding the non-destructive selectable marker enhanced green fluorescent protein gene was introduced using polyethylene glycol into protoplasts of 'Itaborai' sweet orange isolated from an embryogenic nucellar-derived suspension culture. Following protoplast culture in liquid medium and transfer to solid medium, transformed calluses were identified via expression of the green fluorescent protein, physically separated from non-transformed tissue, and cultured on somatic embryogenesis induction medium. Transgenic plantlets were recovered from germinating somatic embryos and by in vitro rooting of shoots. To expedite transgenic plant recovery, regenerated shoots were also micrografted onto sour orange seedling rootstocks. Presence of the transgene in calluses and regenerated sweet orange plants was verified by gene amplification and Southern analyses. Potential advantages of this transformation system over the commonly used Agrobacterium methods for citrus are discussed.
4293141|A method for the production of hairy roots of Aconitum heterophyllum wall. is reported for the first time. Embryogenic callus cultures were successfully transformed using Agrobacterium rhizogenes strains viz. LBA 9402, LBA 9360, and A4 for the induction of hairy roots. The transgenic nature of hairy roots was confirmed by mannopine assay using paper electrophoresis. Best growth of transformed roots was obtained on 1/4 MS (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) medium with 3% sucrose. Total alkaloid (aconites) content of transformed roots was 2.96%, which was 3.75 times higher compared to 0.79% in the nontransformed (control) roots. Thin layer chromatography (TLC) analysis of the components of aconites in the transformed roots revealed the presence of heteratisine, atisine, and hetidine.
4293402|Nicotiana tabacum explants were grown on stage II micropropagation medium containing
20064855|Stipular bud (SB) formation occurred spontaneously on "Gorella" strawberry leaf stipules during proliferation phase on Boxus medium. These buds gave rise to normal shoots on the inner median zone between the stipule tips. Some stipular buds also have been observed on other parts of adaxial surface of the stipule. Stipular bud formation took place directly on the stipule without an intermediate callus. The first stage consisted of subspherical protrusions of small cells which progressively differentiated into shoots that were able to proliferate and to root. Scanning electron microscopy was used to examine the developmental stages of this adventitious organogenesis and to describe morphologic abnormalities, e.g., multiapex formation and fasciation. In vitro cloning of plantlets was made from axillary and SBs produced by the same tufts. The greater flowering abundance of stipular plants resulted in a drastic reduction of the commercial production and the fruit caliber when compared to axillary plants. However, the general phenotype of the mother cultivar (Gorella) was not affected in either case.
20064957|Opium poppy (Papaver somniferum L.) contains a number of pharmaceutically important alkaloids of the benzylisoquinoline type including morphine, codeine, papaverine, and sanguinarine. Although these alkaloids accumulate to high concentrations in various organs of the intact plant, only the phytoalexin sanguinarine has been found at significant levels in opium poppy cell cultures. Moreover, even sanguinarine biosynthesis is not constitutive in poppy cell suspension cultures, but is typically induced only after treatment with a fungal-derived elicitor. The absence of appreciable quantities of alkaloids in dedifferentiated opium poppy cell cultures suggests that benzylisoquinoline alkaloid biosynthesis is developmentally regulated and requires the differentiation of specific tissues. In the 40 yr since opium poppy tissues were first cultured in vitro, a number of reports on the redifferentiation of roots and buds from callus have appeared. A requirement for the presence of specialized laticifer cells has been suggested before certain alkaloids, such as morphine and codeine, can accumulate. Laticifers represent a complex internal secretory system in about 15 plant families and appear to have multiple evolutionary origins. Opium poppy laticifers differentiate from procambial cells and undergo articulation and anastomosis to form a continuous network of elements associated with the phloem throughout much of the intact plant. Latex is the combined cytoplasm of fused laticifer vessels, and contains numerous large alkaloid vesicles in which latex-associated poppy alkaloids are sequestered. The formation of alkaloid vesicles, the subcellular compartmentation of alkaloid biosynthesis, and the tissue-specific localization and control of these processes are important unresolved problems in plant cell biology. Alkaloid biosynthesis in opium poppy is an excellent model system to investigate the developmental regulation and cell biology of complex metabolic pathways, and the relationship between metabolic regulation and cell-type specific differentiation. In this review, we summarize the literature on the roles of cellular differentiation and plant development in alkaloid biosynthesis in opium poppy plants and tissue cultures.
4293110|Shoot organogenesis of Guazuma crinita Mart. from root and petiole explants was obtained via adventitious bud formation. Root segments and petiole explants excised from in vitro generated plantlets were cultured on woody plant medium (WPM) supplemented with [trans-6-(4-hydroxy-3-methylbut-2-enyl) aminopurine] (zeatin) or with [6-benzyladenine] (BA). After 45 d of culturing, clumps of green bulbous structures containing small adventitious buds (clusters) were generated in all explants cultured with
23326876|Eucalyptus benthamii is an important component of forestry plantations in cold regions, but it is difficult to obtain clonal plants of this species, especially by low rooting. In this study, we developed a method for cloning selected genotypes of E. benthamii using a micropropagation technique, enabling the formation of a clonal micro-garden. Nodal segments from sprouts of mini-stumps in the clonal mini-garden were used as explants. After in vitro establishment of the explants, we tested two selected clones (BP101 and BP118), three culture media (Wood Plant Medium (WPM), Correia and colleagues JADS medium, and Murashige and Skoog medium), and two plant growth regulators (6-benzylaminopurine (BAP) and -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA)) for the multiplication of adventitious buds. Additionally, combinations of two other plant growth regulators (BAP and gibberellic acid (GA 3 )) were tested for the elongation of shoots. The in vitro and ex vitro rooting of micro-plantlets prior to acclimatization were compared. The in vitro bud multiplication of E. benthamii depended on the clone, culture medium, and concentration of plant growth regulators. The best results were obtained with WPM supplemented with 0.5 mg L -1 BAP and 0.05 mg L -1 NAA. The elongation of shoots depended on the clone and plant growth regulator, and the best results were obtained with nutrient medium free of GA 3 and BAP. Histological analysis showed that both in vitro and ex vitro rooting were successful, resulting in normal development of adventitious roots showing a vascular connection with the vascular cambium. The new protocol is efficient for micro-plantlet production of E. benthamii and can be used for the formation of a clonal micro-garden for other Eucalyptus or tree species.
4293929| A method of clonal germplasm preservation utilizing dehydrated somatic embryos and cool temperature storage conditions was demonstrated. Somatic embryos of grapevine (Vitis vinifera L.) Autumn Seedless and Chardonnay were produced from suspension cultures. After washing twice with sterile water, mature somatic embryos were blot-dried and placed on sterile filter paper in an open Petri dish in a laminar flow hood until they reached about 25% of their initial weight. Approximately 300 dried embryos were placed in each sterile 90 x 15 mm Petri dish, which was tightly sealed with two layers of Parafilm. Sealed dishes were stored in the dark at 4C in a standard refrigerator. Samples of 25-60 individual dehydrated somatic embryos were periodically tested for viability by placing them on solidified MS medium for germination and plant regeneration. After 42 mo. of dehydrated storage, 90% of the somatic embryos regenerated into plants. To further test utility of this storage method, dehydrated embryos stored for 12 and 26 mo. were shipped from Florida to Washington where 75 and 87.5% regenerated into plants, respectively. Cool temperature storage of dehydrated somatic embryos is a simple and inexpensive method of clonal germplasm preservation when compared to alternatives such as cryopreservation. 
25623016|Hairy root cultures of Echinacea, one of the most important medicinal plants in the US, represent a valuable alternative to field cultivation for the production of bioactive secondary metabolites. In this study, the three most economically important species of Echinacea (Echinacea purpurea, Echinacea pallida, and Echinacea angustifolia) were readily transformed with two strains of Agrobacterium that produce the hairy root phenotype. Transformed roots of all three species exhibited consistent accelerated growth and increased levels of alkamide production. Optimization of the culture of Echinacea hairy roots was implemented to enhance both growth and alkamide production concomitantly. The use of half-strength Gamborg's B5 medium supplemented with 3.0% sucrose was twice as effective in maintaining hairy root production than any other media tested. The addition of indolebutyric acid increased the growth rate of roots by as much as 14-fold. Alkamide production increased severalfold in response to the addition of the elicitor, jasmonic acid, but did not respond to the addition of indolebutyric acid. Induced accumulation of the important bioactive compounds, alkamides 2 and 8, was observed both in transformed roots and in response to jasmonic acid treatments. The results of this study demonstrate the efficacy of hairy root cultures of Echinacea for the in vitro production of alkamides and establish guidelines for optimum yield.
4293176|Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy provides a unique modality for the study of tissue-cultured plant cells. One of its major attractions is that it allows noninvasive studies of plant material. In addition, it can provide insight into the pH in the vacuole and cytoplasm, and into the compartmentalization of certain metabolites. In this review we show how phosphorus-31 NMR is used to study intracellular pH, phosphate uptake and storage, and energy metabolism in suspension cells of Catharanthus roseus. In addition, multinuclear NMR studies of the uptake of ammonium and the gradients of K
29736223|The oligogalacturonides derived from trifluoroacetic acid hydrolysis and their monomer galacturonic acid were tested for their effect on development of strawberry explants (Fragaria x ananassa) in vitro. The addition of oligogalacturonides or galacturonic acid in the plant tissue culture medium at concentrations of 0.1 or 1.0 mM increased shoot and leaf number in the presence of added benzy1 adenine. The response to oligogalacturonides or galacturonic acid was maintained in the absence of benzy1 adenine but was lessened. Conversely, root elongation was increased in the absence of benzy1 adenine. A combined analysis of these experiments also indicated the increase in shoot or leaf number. High-performance anion exchange chromatography of the bioassayed oligogalacturonide samples using a pulsed amperometric detector revealed that the sample consisted of galactouronides with a degree of polymerization from 1 to 5 and the proportion of the monomer was very high (94%).
4293377|A complete and efficient protocol is presented for plant regeneration from cell-suspension cultures of Dalbergia sissoo Roxb., an economically important leguminous tree. Factors influencing callus initiation, establishment of cell-suspension culture, callus formation from embedded microcolonies, and shoot organogenesis from suspension-derived callus were identified. Of the two different auxins tested, callus induction was better on a medium containing naphthalene acetic acid (NAA). The percentage of callus induction increased considerably when NAA at
4293787|Shi-hu (Dendrobium spp. or Dendrobii Herba) is one of the important traditional Chinese medicines. The commercially available crude drug in the traditional medicine market is composed mainly of three species: Dendrobium tosaense, D. nobile, and D. moniliforme. An efficient method of propagation has been developed via asymbiotic germination of seeds in vitro for the medicinally important D. tosaense. Seeds from capsules of D. tosaense collected 8-14 wk after artificial pollination germinated after being cultured on full-strength or half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium devoid of plant growth regulators and with 3% sucrose. Germination of seeds varied with the medium type and seed maturity. Germinated seedlings after transfer to MS medium with 1.5% sucrose and 8% banana homogenate or potato juice or coconut water and 20 wk of incubation developed into healthy plantlets. Well-developed plantlets were transplanted to moss or moss and tree fern or tree fern as substrates in plastic trays and transferred to a greenhouse for hardening. All plants survived, attained maturity, and developed normal flower and capsule after one and a half years. This protocol of successful plant regeneration by asymbiotic seed germination should permit rapid propagation and conservation of this medicinally important Dendrobium species.
4293010|The production of hybrid seed is facilitated if one parent possesses a male-sterile cytoplasm. Introduction of the cytoplasm of male-sterile radish (Raphanus sativus L.) into rapeseed (Brassica napus L.) results not only in transfer of the desirable male-sterile trait but induces a chlorophyll defect in the backcrossed male-sterile plants. In this study we show that the defect manifests itself in two different ways in the alloplasmic plants: a) smaller and fewer chloroplasts with an impaired ultrastructure and b) an increase in chlorophyll fluorescence. Defective chloroplasts were characterized by a reduction in both the number and size of grana, the latter due to poor stacking of thylakoids and with frequent discontinuity in the intergranal thylakoid systems. The changed chloroplast morphology and the increase in chlorophyll fluorescence are probably the cause of the lowered photosynthetic efficiency associated with the alloplasmic plants. We propose that the deficiency is the result of incompatibility between the genomes of the radish chloroplast and the rapeseed nucleus. Supporting this hypothesis are studies of male-sterile rapeseed plants in which, by protoplast fusion, the radish chloroplasts were substituted by those of normal male-fertile rapeseed. Such plants showed complete restoration of their photosynthetic potential and displayed both normal chloroplast ultrastructure and normal levels of chlorophyll fluorescence.
4293560|Cell cultures of freshwater wetland monocots were regenerated, plants were grown in the greenhouse, and then established and evaluated in wetlands. Typha (cattail), Juncus (rushes), Scirpus (bulrushes), and Carex (sedges) were studied because they are common, dominant, high biomass wetland-adapted plants, tolerant of chemically diverse ecosystems. The goal was to define micropropagation and wetland establishment protocols. Tissue culture systems defined for numerous monocot crop species can be readily applied to wetland plants, with a few modifications. Issues addressed were selection of explant material, shoot and root regeneration conditions, culture age verses regenerability, greenhouse acclimatization needs, plant uniformity and requirements for wetland establishment. In vitro-germinated seedlings were an excellent source of pathogen-free regenerable tissue. T. latifolia, T. angustifolia, and J. accuminatus were regenerated from callus induced in the dark with picloram, then transferred to medium with benzyladenine in the light to promote shoot organogenesis. J. effusus, S. polyphyllus, and C. lurida could not be regenerated from callus, which turned black. They could be regenerated directly by culturing intact seedlings directly on cytokinin media in the light. Shoots rooted with little or no auxin. J. effusus rooting was promoted by the addition of charcoal to the medium. Covering plants for the first 2 wk with plastic facilitated greenhouse establishment. There were high rates of greenhouse and wetland survival. No abnormal plants were observed. These regeneration systems could be utilized for the production of wetland plants for potential application in habitat restoration and wetland creation, and would provide an alternative to field collection.
4293741| Black grama (Bouteloua eriopoda) is an important forage grass in southwestern USA rangelands. Plants were regenerated by somatic embryogenesis. Surface-disinfested seeds were germinated and the embryonic shoots were excised and cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium gelled with agar. Callus was induced from apical meristems. Calluses were cultured on MS solid medium with six concentrations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or Dicamba (6-dichloro-o-anisic acid) for 6 wk under light or dark conditions. Somatic embryo induction was greatest on 4.52 M Dicamba, under light, after transferring to an auxin-free medium. Embryo development progressed from globular torpedo to mature embryos phenotypically identical to those naturally produced in seed. These germinated and grew into intact plants and were established in soil and grown to maturity. To our knowledge, this is the first report of somatic embryo induction and regeneration in black grama grass. 
4293041| We investigated abscisic acid (ABA) metabolism among Norway and white spruce somatic embryo cultures which exhibited differences in maturation response when placed on racemic abscisic acid [()-ABA]. Differences in metabolic rate among the spruce genotypes could affect the ABA pool available for the maturation process, and might therefore be responsible for the differences in maturation response. The production of cotyledonary (stage 3) somatic embryos in cultures (genotypes) of Norway spruce (PA86:26A and PA88:25B) and of white spruce (WSlFcryoD and WS46) was compared. In each species pair one of the two genotypes failed to show stage 3 embryo development (respectively, PA88:25B and WS46). The investigation of ABA metabolism of each species pair showed that no substantial differences in ABA consumption or in the production of metabolites occurred. In each case ABA was metabolized to phaseic acid and dihydrophaseic acid over the 42-day culture period, metabolites were recoverable from the agar-solidified medium, and the sum of residual ABA and metabolites were equivalent to the ABA initially supplied. The results indicate that the process of ABA metabolism occurs essentially independently of somatic embryo maturation. 
29736225|The objective was to set up a pilot scale process for robusta (Coffea canephora) industrial propagation by somatic embryogenesis in liquid media. A batch production of pre-germinated embryos was initiated once every 2 mo. in 2003 and 2004, then every mo. in 2005. Each run batch requires 4 to 6 mo. to produce the pre-germinated somatic embryos and consists of three phases: (1) the development of torpedo stage embryos in Erlenmeyer flasks, (2) pre-germination in temporary immersion bioreactors to allow maturation from the torpedo stage to the cotyledonary stage, (3) maintaining the embryos under storage conditions before their shipment to coffee producing countries. Starting from 1 kg of embryogenic calluses, a total of 4.4 million pre-germinated embryos for 17 clones were produced over 3 yr. This embryo number was enough to potentially regenerate 2 million plants, as the global embryo-to-plantlet conversion rate was estimated to 46% after acclimatization and complete germination in the greenhouse. At the end of April 2006, 600,000 somatic seedlings were transferred into plastic bags in nurseries or were already planted in the fields, mainly in Thailand. The current capacity allows the production of 2.5 million embryos per year, equivalent to a potential of about 1.0 million plantlets. The technical package has recently been transferred to National Institutes in Mexico, Thailand, and Vietnam.
4292956|Gene transfer and plant regeneration systems have been developed for European larch (Larix decidua Mill.) in our laboratory. Aseptically germinated young seedlings were hypocotyl wound-inoculated with Agrobacterium rhizogenes strains 11325 containing a wild-type Ri (root-inducing) plasmid. Swollen stems appeared at infected wounds followed by either abundant hairy roots or adventitious shoot buds that developed within 3 to 4 wk after inoculation. No symptoms were seen on wounded but uninoculated seedlings. We demonstrated agrobacteria attached to larch cells by examination of scanning electron micrographs. Subsequently, calli derived from symptomatic tissues exhibited phytohormone autotrophic growth. Adventitious buds were elongated and rooted in vitro before being transferred to the greenhouse where the transformed whole plants grew normally. Transformants tested positive for opine production and transformation was further confirmed by Southern blot analysis with larch genomic DNAs isolated from both proliferated calli and needle tissue of transgenic plants.
4293860|Kalopanax pictus (Thunb.) Nakai is a tall tree, and its wood has been used in making furniture, while its stem bark is used for medicinal purposes. Here, we report on the micropropagation of Kalopanax pictus via somatic embryogenesis. Embryogenic callus was induced from immature zygotic embryos. The frequency of embryogenic callus induction is influenced by days of seed harvest. Callus formation was primarily observed along the radicle tips of zygotic embryos incubated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with
4293436|The application of bioreactor culture techniques for plant micropropagation is regarded as one of the ways to reduce production cost by scaling-up and automation. Recent experiments are restricted to a small number of species that, however, demonstrate the feasibility of this technology. Periodic immersion liquid culture using ebb and flood system and column-type bubble bioreactors equipped with a raft support system to maintain plant tissues at the air and liquid interface were found to be suitable for micropropagation of plants via the organogenic pathway. Balloon-type bubble bioreactors proved to be fit for micropropagation via somatic embryogenesis with less shear stress on cultured cells. Several cultivars of Lilium were successfully propagated using a two-stage culture method in one bioreactor. A large number of small-scale segments were cultured for 4 wk with periodic immersion liquid culture to induce multiple bulblets from each segment, then the bulblet induction medium was changed into bulblet growth medium by employing a submerged liquid bioreactor system. This culture method resulted in a nearly 10-fold increase in bulblet growth compared to conventional culture with solid medium. About 20 000 cuttings of virus-free potato could be obtained from 120 single-node explants in a 20-liter balloon-type bubble bioreactor after 8 wk of culture. The percentage of ex vitro survival and root induction of the cuttings was more than 95%. Other successful results were obtained from the micropropagation and transplant production of chrysanthemum, sweetpotato, Chinese foxglove. Propagation systems via somatic embryogenesis in Acanthopanax koreanum and thornless Aralia elata were established using a liquid suspension of embryogenic determined cells. More than 500 000 somatic embryos in different stages were harvested from a 10-liter balloon-type bubble bioreactor after a 6-wk culture. Further development of these embryos in solid medium and eventually in the field was successful. The bioreactor system could reduce initial and operational cost for micropropagation, but further development of sophisticated technology might be needed to apply this system to plant micropropagation industries.
20064815|Recent advances in plant cell and molecular biology have furthered the genetic manipulation of many plant species and advanced the options for crop improvement. Among the many targets for genetic manipulation, microspores offer several unique advantages: they are haploid, single-celled, and highly synchronized. In many plant species microspores develop into haploid embryos, and eventually haploid and doubled haploid plants, after in vitro anther or microspore culture. This induced in vitro developmental pathway of microspores, termed microspore embryogenesis, can be used to recover individual homozygous plants from microspores and microspore-derived embryos after genetic manipulation such as mutagenesis and gene transfer. The highly efficient microspore embryogenesis system in Brassica napus has been used successfully to obtain various mutants after microspore mutagenesis, and to achieve gene transfer mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens.
4293717| Eggplant (Solanum melongena L.) was efficiently regenerated from cultured roots of 15-d-old seedlings on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 0.45 M thidiazuron and 13.3 M 6-benzyladenine. Within 28 d of culture initiation, induction of organogenic calluses and subsequent differentiation into shoot buds were observed. Shoot buds upon subculture to MS basal medium elongated into healthy shoots. Excised shoots (2-4 cm) were rooted on Soilrite  irrigated with water either in vitro or in vivo. Plants with well-developed root systems were established under field conditions after hardening in the glasshouse, where they developed into flowering plants and produced mature fruits with viable seeds. 
20064883|An Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated procedure for transformation of papaya (Carica papaya) was developed. Transgenic plants were obtained from somatic embryos that spontaneously formed at the base of transformed roots, induced from leaf discs infected with A. rhizogenes. Transformation was monitored by autonomous growth of roots and somatic embryos, resistance to kanamycin, -glucuronidase activity (GUS), and Southern hybridization analysis. Over one-third of the infected leaf explants produced transformed roots with GUS activity, from which 10% spontaneously produced somatic embryos. Histological analysis of A. rhizogenes-transformed embryos showed that they have an altered symmetry between the shoot apex and the root meristem when compared to somatic embryos induced with hormone treatment from control explants. Transgenic papaya plants containing A. rhizogenes rol genes were more sensitive to auxins, developed wrinkled leaves, and grew slower than nontransformed plants.
4293720| A highly reproducible method for regeneration of Coffea arabica and C. canephora plants via direct somatic embryogenesis from cultured leaf and stem segments of regenerated plants was developed. Embryogenesis was influenced by the presence of triacontanol (TRIA) in the medium. TRIA incorporated at 4.55 and 11.38 M in half-strength MS basal medium containing 1.1 M 6-benzyladenine (BA) and 2.28 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) induced direct somatic embryogenesis in both species. A maximum of 260  31.8 and 59.2  12.8 somatic embryos per culture were induced from in vitro leaf explants of C. arabica and C. canephora, respectively. TRIA also induced embryo formation from in vitro stem segment callus tissues along with multiplication of primary embryos into secondary embryos. By using TRIA, it was possible to obtain somatic embryogenesis in C. arabica and C. canephora. 
23016748|Recalcitrance to tissue culture is observed in some genotypes of Brassica napus. Several studies have confirmed that Pluronic F-68 has growth-promoting effects on numerous tissue types. This work investigated the effect of the non-ionic surfactant Pluronic F-68 at four concentrations (0.1%, 0.25%, 0.5%, and 1% (w/v)) on the responsiveness of recalcitrant B. napus lines to tissue culture. Microspores from seven populations of B. napus were cultured on Nitsch and Nitsch medium with this compound. The embryos obtained were plated on solid B5 medium supplemented with zeatin for shoot induction. Pluronic F-68 had a highly significant effect on the proportion of shoot regeneration (P<0.05) in some of the recalcitrant populations. However, no strong dose-response effect was observed. The estimated probability of a shoot occurring in the absence of Pluronic F-68 ranged from 0.04 to 0.31 depending on the genotype, while in the presence of Pluronic F-68, it ranged from 0.07 to 0.53, respectively.
4293089|Protoplasts were isolated from leaves of Betula platyphylla var. japonica using a 0.6 M mannitol solution containing 1% Cellulase Onozuka R-10 and 1% Driselase. The cell division and colony formation were largely enhanced using Murashige and Skoog (1962) liquid medium at half strength (1/2 MS), containing 0.6 M mannitol, 0.09 M sucrose, and factorial combinations of
20064893|In the synchronous embryogenesis system of sandalwood developed in our laboratory, we observed that the early events of differentiation from freshly induced callus (stage 0) are accomplished in three distinct stages viz., preglobular masses (stage 1), globular embryos (stage 2), and bipolar embryos (stage 3). Transition from stage 0 to 1 was accomplished using 2,4-D and involves a stage specific appearance of two polypeptides of 15 and 30 kDa molecular weight. A 24 kDa polypeptide that was detected as a marked band in extracts of primary callus was not detected in stages 1, 2, and 3. Further, the tissue level of a 50 kDa glycoprotein decreased during transition from stage 2 to stage 3. However, the levels of glycoproteins in the medium were markedly higher in stage 0 cultures compared to those in stage 1. The activities of a protein kinase, glycosidase, and xylanase increased markedly with progressing embryogenesis. Our observations suggest that in addition to being controlled at the level of stage-specific gene expression, somatic embryogenesis in sandalwood is also regulated at the level of controls on cell wall flexibility and posttranslational changes in the pool of preexisting proteins.
4292953|An anatomical study was carried out during the sequences of events which lead to the differentiation of secondary embryos of Camellia reticulata cv 'Mouchang'. Secondary embryogenesis can be induced by culturing somatic embryos on a modified Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with
20065004|The objective of this study was to evaluate the ability of Hosta Golden Scepter (GS) ovary explants to generate adventitious shoots in vitro. Ovaries were transversely cut into halves and transferred to petri dishes containing Hosta initiation medium supplemented with naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) at 2.5 M and N-benzyladenine (BA) at 10 M. GS produced adventitious shoots from the ovary base via organogenesis. The number of adventitious shoots regenerated from callus increased linearly with repeated subculturing on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2.5 M NAA and 10 M BA. The number of multiple shoots developing from callus (15.8), shoot tip (8.4), leaf (6.7), and root (4.3) occurred on MS medium supplemented with 2.5 M NAA and 20-30 M BA. There were significant differences in the number of shoots regenerated from shoot tips and callus on MS medium with 50 and 100 mg myo-inositol per 1. Similarly, there were significant differences in the number of axillary shoots and adventitious shoots produced with 20 g/l sucrose treatment.
40981332|Gynura bicolor DC., a traditional vegetable in Japan, is cultivated as Kinjisou and Suizenjina in Ishikawa and Kumamoto prefectures, respectively. The adaxial side of the leaves of G. bicolor grown in a field is green, and the abaxial side is reddish purple. It has been reported that these reddish purple pigments are anthocyanins. Although we established a culture system of G. bicolor, the leaves of G. bicolor plants grown under our culture conditions showed green color on both sides of all leaves. We investigated the effects of phytohormones and chemical treatments on anthocyanin accumulation in cultured plants. Although anthocyanin accumulation in the leaves was slightly stimulated, anthocyanins accumulation in the roots of the cultured plant was induced remarkably by 25-50 M methyl jasmonate (MJ) treatment. This induction was affected by light irradiation and sucrose concentration in the culture medium. However, salicylic acid (SA) and 1-aminocyclopropane-l-carboxylic acid did not induce anthocyanin accumulation in roots. And then, combinations of MJ and SA or MJ and AgNO did not stimulate the anthocyanin accumulation in the root as found in the case of treatment by MJ solely.
4293335|The production of whole plants from explants of protein pea (Pisum sativum L.) using an efficient, reliable and rapid strategy, while maintaining trueness to type, will be required before regeneration can be exploited for genetic transformation. Seeds of the pea genotypes Terese, Solara, Frisson and P64 (a hypernodulating mutant line of Frisson) were surface-sterilized and imbibed overnight, whereafter embryo axes were dissected and germinated on hormone-free medium for 7-10 d. Hypocotyl sections lacking pre-existing meristems were harvested and cultured on a range of media with various concentrations and combinations of growth regulators in order to induce either caulogenesis or somatic embryogenesis. Differences in responsiveness were apparent between genotypes, but regeneration via caulogenesis was consistently more reliable than via the induction of somatic embryos. Few Explants underwent somatic embryo production and their conversion into plants has remained elusive so far, irrespective of the genotype studied. Conversely, large numbers of buds were produced within 10 d by organogenesis, and healthy, rootable shoots were obtained. A clear relationship was observed between the growth regulators employed for bud regeneration and shoot rooting phases and the subsequent competence of the regenerated plants for flowering, pod formation and viable seed production.
4293519|An in vitro method was developed for high-frequency shoot regeneration and continuous production of rapid-cycling B. oleracea in large numbers. The high regenerative capacity was tissue-dependent. Developmental polarity (apical and basal ends) of the explants appeared to play a regulatory role in shoot morphogenesis in this system. High-frequency shoot regeneration was obtained with
4293890|Embryonal-suspensor mass (ESM) lines characterized by a spiky morphotype (i.e., developed early embryos escaping from the ESM periphery) were recently shown to produce the best maturation yields in Maritime pine. How to select or preserve such a valuable morphotype during ESM maintenance (prior to maturation treatment) is still unknown. Several maintenance procedures were tested; 2400 ESM from 10 lines were subcultured each 7 or 14 d on maltose- or sucrose-containing medium without plant growth regulator (PGR) or supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 6-benzylaminopurine or a low concentration of abscisic acid. Multiple components analyses based on growth rate, macromorphology data, and micromorphology data, collected for 6 mo., allowed for the association of the spiky morphotype with additional traits (defining the phenotype I) such as whitish aspect, high vigor, high growth rate, and complex cellular organization (resulting from high early embryogenic ability). Since a gradual increase in growth rate as well as a decrease in cellular organization were concomitantly observed during the 6 mo. experiment, we concluded that ESM growth and early somatic embryo development were disconnected. In some lines, the progressive loss of early embryogenic ability (aging process) could be decreased using maltose-based and PGR-free medium. For most lines, the aging effect was minimized using a weekly subculture. An improved procedure for ESM maintenance prior to the maturation step is thus proposed.
4292930| The cell wall regeneration on protoplasts derived from maize mesophyll cells was compared with wall regeneration on protoplasts derived from suspension cultured cells using light microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, and mass spectrometry. The time course of cell wall regeneration has shown that the mesophyll protoplasts regenerated walls much slower than the protoplasts derived from cultured cells. Moreover, cell wall materials on the mesophyll protoplasts were often unevenly distributed. Electron microscopy has further demonstrated that the mesophyll protoplasts have less organized and compact walls than the protoplasts from cultured cells. Chemical analysis revealed that the mesophyll protoplasts had a lower ratio of -(l-3)-glucan to -(l-4)-glucan than protoplasts from cultured cells. The significance of these results for the viability and development of protoplasts in culture is discussed. 
41318718|An in vitro bioassay to differentiate pineapple plant resistance levels to Phytophthora nicotianae var. parasitica (heart rot disease) is described here. Conditions to cause death of in viiro-cultured plants were defined using a cultivar previously found to be susceptible to this fungus in our Field-Grown Pineapple Germplasm Bank (cv. Smooth Cayenne Serrana). The effects of zoospore concentration, inoculation technique, and disease progress during the course of time after infection were evaluated. The highest rates of plant death were observed with the use of 10 zoospores m1 , and the inoculation technique of needle-mediated leaf base wound. One hundred percent plant death was observed at 144 h after infection. Different susceptible varieties along with a resistant pineapple relative were additionally compared. In vitro results confirmed previous observations obtained under field conditions. The protocol described here may be used for early selection (in vitro ) of new pineapple genotypes showing resistance to this fungus. At present, this protocol is extensively used in the Biotechnology-assisted Cuban Program for Pineapple Breeding.
20064913|The effects of abscisic acid (ABA) (0, 0.09 M, 0.19 M, 0.28 M, and 0.38 M) or ancymidol (0, 0.98 M, 1.95 M, 2.93 M, 3.90 M) in embryo germination medium on the conversion of primary embryos to plantlets and secondary embryogenesis were evaluated for asparagus. ABA and ancymidol each significantly enhanced both responses. ABA was more effective than ancymidol in promoting the conversion of primary embryos to plantlets, while the converse was true for the production of secondary embryos. The most effective treatments for embryo conversion were 0.19 and 0.28 M ABA; 75-77% bipolar and 55-57% globular embryos converted to plantlets. For secondary embryogenesis, the most effective treatments were 1.95 and 2.93 M ancymidol; 99-101 and 84-86 somatic embryos were produced from 10 globular and 10 bipolar embryos, respectively. Bipolar embryos generally converted to plantlets better than globular embryos, but more secondary embryos were produced from globular embryos than from bipolar embryos in all treatments. ABA and ancymidol also affected the morphology of the plantlets produced. The plantlets from the embryos incubated on the medium with ancymidol had strong and thick shoots and roots, while those on the medium with ABA had long, thin shoots and short, thin roots.
4293524|NADPH-cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase (CPR, EC 1.6.2.4) is the redox partner of classical P450-monooxygenases, which have crucial roles in the metabolism of terpenes, alkaloids, flavonoids, phytoalexins, etc. It becomes evident that, contrary to animals and yeast, various CPR isoforms occur in some plants, although their specific physiological functions are largely unknown. C. roseus-CPK has been reported as encoded by a single gene and early papers concerning the C. roseus-CPR protein also reported a single CPR polypeptide. The observation of diverse CPRs during purification or by immunoblot were attributed to proteolytic degradation. We obtained CPR immunotype of C. roseus roots using two heterologous antisera directed against the CPR from Sorghum bicolor and Helianthus tuberosus, respectively. Both antisera developed the same immunogenic profile with two cross-reactive polypeptides. Further evaluation of anti-H. tuberosus CPR serum excluded non-specific binding of antiserum with C. roseus microsomal proteins. The two immuno-reactive polypeptides are probably not the result of proteolytic degradation, since increasing protease inhibitor concentration during the extraction and manipulation of the samples did not affect the occurrence of these two CPR forms. Roots from plants growing in the field showed identical CPR immunotypes with those seen in vitro, indicating that this immunoprofile actually belongs to C. roseus roots. The lectin concanavalin A was able to inhibit the CPR activity from C. roseus hairy roots; therefore, the immuno-reactive polypeptides probably result from post-translational glycosylation of the original polypeptide. Not only the roots, but also the flowers, leaves and the stem showed more than a single CPR form. The different tissues of the plant showed different immuno-reactive bands, which were reproducible even though they came from tissues of plants growing in the field. This opens the possibility of the occurrence of diverse tissue-specific CPRs.
4293078|Eucalyptus camaldulensis shoots were cultured photoautotrophically in vitro for 6 wk with four different types of supporting materials (agar matrix, Gelrite matrix, plastic net, or vermiculite) under
20064902|Production of transgenic maize (Zea mays L.) callus, plants, and progeny from microprojectile bombardment of 2-5-d cultured Hi-II immature embryos is described. Histological evidence indicates that these tissues are amenable to transformation due to surface layer cell division of the scutellum. Two out of every 100 bombarded embryos produced transgenic callus and R transgenic plants were both male and female fertile. Expected segregation of transgenes was observed in progeny. The primary advantage of bombarding these tissues is increased male and female fertility of transgenic plants compared with those produced using long-term callus or suspension cultures.
4293074| In the genus Musa, germination is extremely variable and relatively difficult. Even more difficulties are faced when producing hybrids. The seed yield of hybrids in breeding programs is usually low and often, to ensure the viability and survival of seeds, it is necessary to attempt to germinate a large excess of these seeds. In this context, in vitro embryo culture might be an invaluable tool for obtaining desirable hybrid plants in a short time. Seeds of Musa velutina were sown in seed trays in a peat-based mixture. The in vivo seed germination reached 78% but only after 9 mo. Because of this delayed and intermittent germination, embryos were excised from seeds and inoculated onto half-strength Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium, with or without supplementation with various concentrations of gibberellic acid. Light and dark conditions were also used to test their effect on embryo germination. After 2 wk, 82% of embryos germinated in the dark on medium containing 0.1 M gibberellic acid. Addition of gibberellic acid increased the shoot length and root number over the gibberellic acid-free treatment. Similarly, dark conditions gave a significant increase over light conditions for all the parameters except root number where light or dark conditions did not make any difference. Thus, the present study highlights the importance of various components of the in vitro culture of Musa embryos and the advantage over direct use of greenhouse-sown seeds both in terms of the time taken to germinate and the final percentage. 
20064975|Micropropagated Rosa hybrida plantlets were simultaneously rooted and acclimatized under 100 and
20171621| Culture media, environmental and genotypic factors affecting regeneration from multi-shoot cultures derived from corn seedling apical explants were investigated. The frequency of shoot regeneration was highest for seedlings that were 4-5 cm in length. Flow cytometry was used to show that the most responsive cultures contained a high proportion of cells in the G1 phase. Proline in the multi-shoot induction medium (MSI) significantly increased the shoot induction frequency. Continuous low light (30-40 E m s) stimulated multi-shoot induction. The highest number of multi-shoots developed in medium containing 4 gl proline, 2 mg l (8.8 M) 6-benzylaminopurine (BA), and 1 mg l (4.5 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Multi-shoots were induced in this culture system from 44 of 45 corn genotypes and approximately 70% of the genotypes exhibited a high to moderate response (greater than 20 shoots per explant in 4 wk of culture). This culture procedure is an efficient and widely applicable method for corn regeneration that may be a useful target for transformation. 
29736213|A regeneration and transformation system has been developed using organogenic calluses derived from soybean axillary nodes as the starting explants. Leaf-node or cotyledonary-node explants were prepared from 7 to 8-d-old seedlings. Callus was induced on medium containing either Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts or modified Finer and Nagasawa (FNL) salts and B5 vitamins with various concentrations of benzylamino purine (BA) and thidiazuron (TDZ). The combination of BA and TDZ had a synergistic effect on callus induction. Shoot differentiation from the callus occurred once the callus was transferred to medium containing a low concentration of BA. Subsequently, shoots were elongated on medium containing indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), zeatin riboside, and gibberellic acid (GA). Plant regeneration from callus occurred 90~120 d after the callus was cultured on shoot induction medium. Both the primary callus and the proliferated callus were used as explants for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The calluses were inoculated with A. tumefaciens harboring a binary vector with the bar gene as the selectable marker gene and the gusINT gene for GUS expression. Usually 60-100% of the callus showed transient GUS expression 5 d after inoculation. Infected calluses were then selected on media amended with various concentrations of glufosinate. Transgenic soybean plants have been regenerated and established in the green-house. GUS expression was exhibited in various tissues and plant organs, including leaf, stem, and roots. Southern and T plant segregation analysis of transgenic events showed that transgenes were integrated into the soybean genome with a copy number ranging from 1-5 copies.
20541021|Anther culture is a biotechnology technique that can be used for the production of pure lines. The aims of this investigation were to induce embryogenic callus from major and minor culms of Thai aromatic rice cultivars and to subsequently regenerate double-haploid green plantlets by the application of exogenous polyamines. Embryogenic callus derived from anther culture was successfully induced in varieties KDML105, Homjan (HJ), and Pathumthani 1 (PT1). Production of embryogenic callus from anthers collected from the major culms was greater than those collected from the minor culms, especially in cultivar HJ. Plantlet regeneration in the three rice cultivars was observed from embryogenic callus and was highest, at 12.1%, from variety HJ treated with 0.5 mM spermidine. Plantlet regeneration from anther-derived embryogenic callus was dependent on the plant genotype, the types of exogenous polyamines, and the interactions of these factors. The percentage of haploid plantlets regenerated in PT1, KDML105, and HJ were 68.1%, 70.7%, and 78.5%, respectively. Only haploid plantlets were treated with colchicine for double-haploid production. This investigation has increased the knowledge of both embryogenic callus induction and plantlet regeneration in aromatic rice and has lead to the development of a pure, double-haploid line for the use in rice breeding programs in Thailand.
29736167|Conventional breeding methods have not been very successful in producing pest-resistant genotypes of pigeonpea, due to the limited genetic variation in cultivated germplasm. We have developed an efficient method to produce transgenic plants of pigeonpea by incorporating the cry1Ab gene of Bacillus thuringiensis through Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated genetic transformation. The novel tissue culture protocol is based on the direct regeneration of adventitious shoot buds in the axillary bud region of in vitro germinating seedlings by suppressing the axillary and primary shoot buds on a medium containing a high concentration of N -benzyladenine (22.0 M). The tissue with potential to produce adventitious shoot buds can be explanted and used for co-cultivation with A. tumefaciens carrying the synthetic cry1Ab on a binary vector and driven by a CaMV 35S promoter. Following this protocol, over 75 independently transformed transgenic events of pigeonpea were produced and advanced to T2 generation. Amongst the recovered primary putative transformation events, 60% showed positive gene integration based on initial polymerase chain reaction (PCR) screening. PCR analysis of the progenies from independent transformants followed gene inheritance in a Mendelian ratio and 65% of the transformants showed the presence of single-copy inserts of the introduced genes. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that the transcripts of the introduced genes were normally transcribed and resulted in the expression of Cry1Ab protein in the tested T2 generation plants. Interestingly, the content of Cry1Ab protein as a percent of total soluble protein varied in different tissues of the whole plant, showing the highest expression in flowers (0.1%) and least in the leaves (0.025%) as estimated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The transgenic plants produced in this study offer immense potential for the improvement of this important legume of the semi-arid tropics for resistance to insect pests.
4293782|In the present work, histological changes observed at the base of Eucalyptus globulus shoots in in vitro culture are described. Shoots were placed on solidified Murashige and Skoog medium containing half the original salt concentration, the complete vitamin composition,
42568801|Here, we report a widely applicable procedure for direct shoot regeneration via basal leaf segments of Lilium. Leaf segments (0.8-1.0 cm long and 0.4 cm wide) were excised from leaves on shoot nodes 3 to 6 of 4-wk-old in vitro stock shoot cultures. The segments were wounded by three transverse cuts across the midvein on the abaxial side, with 1 mm between cuts, and cultured with the abaxial side in contact with a shoot regeneration medium composed of halfstrength Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 1 mg/1 naphthaleneacetic acid, 0.5 mg/1 thidiazuron, 30 g/1 sucrose, and 7 g/1 agar (pH5.8). The cultures were incubated for 4 wk under a 16-h photoperiod at 232C for adventitious shoot regeneration. With this procedure, a mean shoot regeneration frequency of 92-100% and mean number of shoots of 4.7-7.0 per segment were obtained in five Lilium species and hybrids, which represent diverse genotypes of Lilium and are commercially popular lilies. Histological studies with Lilium Oriental hybrid "Siberia" revealed that meristemoids initiated from subepidermal cells on the adaxial side of the expiant and eventually developed into adventitious buds, without callus formation. In an assessment of genetic stability in the regenerants of "Siberia", no polymorphic bands were detected by intersimple sequence repeat and only 0.73% polymorphic bands were detected by amplified fragment length polymorphism. The morphologies of the regenerants were identical to those of the control. These results demonstrated that the regenerants were genetically and morphological stable. Thus, this procedure has great potential application for micropropagation, genetic transformation, and preparation of shoot tips for cryopreservation and cryotherapy for virus eradication of Lilium.
20541036|Since 2007, the overall rise in food prices in the USA was twice that of the overall inflation rate, led by inflation for poultry and dairy products in particular. Prominent studies have indicated that the main drivers associated with the rise in food prices in the past 3 yr are the increased energy costs (and the trickle-down impact on farm input costs) and the devaluation of the US dollar. However, currently, the impact of crude oil as one of the primary drivers in food prices has waned significantly, as crude oil prices have fallen dramatically since late 2008. The data reviewed here debunk the popular myth that food producers, particularly farmers growing corn or soybean for biofuel feedstocks, are making huge profits with high commodity prices. Producers continue to face extraordinary risks in their farming operations, and profit margins have narrowed considerably because of the high input prices driven by high energy costs. One of the primary solutions to the food price inflation is to increase the supply of commodity crops in a responsible way that is both respectful and sustainable regarding economic, social, and environmental aspects. At the center of this solution is implementing and developing new technologies to increase crop yields and nutritional values without increasing the amount of fossil-based inputs used in agriculture. Conventional breeding, molecular breeding, genomics, and biotechnology are pivotal technologies for increasing crop yields to meet these supply needs, combined with the impacts of other new technologies and best management practices in agricultural production.
25623012|In vitro axillary shoot proliferation was achieved from single-node explants of Indigofera tinctoria on a well-defined medium, Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 1.0 mg 1 N-benzyl adenine (BA) and 0.1 mg 1 indole-3-acetic acid. Axillary shoot meristems from cultures derived from up to three subcultures were used in the encapsulationdehydration technique. Preconditioned, calcium alginate-encapsulated, and precultured axillary shoot meristems were subjected to different lengths of desiccation in a laminar flow cabinet. Maximum survival and regeneration rates of 56.7% and 62.2%, respectively, were obtained in half-strength (half the macro- and micronutrients and full-strength vitamins) MS medium supplemented with 0.5 mg 1 gibberellic acid and 0.2 mg 1 BA after 4 h of desiccation, during which the moisture content was reduced to 16.0%. According to the analysis of six random amplified polymorphic DNA markers, plantlets derived from cultures initiated with cryopreserved plant material were genetically identical to those derived from nonfrozen (control) tissues.
41496436|Plant regeneration was obtained from cultured anthers and hypocotyl segments of caraway (Carum carvi L.). Microspore-and somatic tissue-derived embryos were compared by observation of the regeneration process under identical induction conditions. Fluorescent microscopy with DAPI staining showed initiation of cell divisions and formation of embryogenie callus and somatic embryos from anther sacs, with production of embryos of both microspore and somatic origin. Induction of somatic embryos from hypocoty1-derived callus was also demonstrated. Isozyme native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was used to identify haploids and doubled haploids, and to determine the frequency of spontaneous diploidization of regenerated plants of microspore origin. Donor plants (2n= 20) and their anther-derived derivative plants (n= 10, 2n= 20, 4n = 40) in callus stage or leafy rosette stage were compared. The esterase (EST) band patterns of regenerated plants differed from the heterozygous parental material, suggesting that the regenerated plants were microsporederived haploid/doubled haploid plants. The similar profile of EST bands between the diploid anther-derived plants and a sample of the donor plants corresponded to a somatic regeneration pathway. Although the selected induction conditions revealed no preference for induction of microspore embryogenesis, the anther culture protocol established for caraway utilizing isozyme segregating EST loci markers is suitable for DH production.
24596332|L-ascorbic acid (vitamin C) is an abundant metabolite in plant cells and tissues. Ascorbate functions as an antioxidant, as an enzyme cofactor, and plays essential roles in multiple physiological processes including photosynthesis, photoprotection, control of cell cycle and cell elongation, and modulation of flowering time, gene regulation, and senescence. The importance of this key molecule in regulating whole plant morphology, cell structure, and plant development has been clearly established via characterization of low vitamin C mutants of Arabidopsis, potato, tobacco, tomato, and rice. However, the consequences of elevating ascorbate content in plant growth and development are poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that Arabidopsis lines overexpressing a myo-inositol oxygenase or an L-gulono- 1,4-lactone oxidase, containing elevated ascorbate, display enhanced growth and biomass accumulation of both aerial and root tissues. To our knowledge, this is the first study demonstrating such a marked positive effect in plant growth in lines engineered to contain elevated vitamin C content. In addition, we present evidence showing that these lines are tolerant to a wide range of abiotic stresses including salt, cold, and heat. Total ascorbate content of the transgenic lines remained higher than those of controls under the abiotic stresses tested. Interestingly, exposure to pyrene, a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon and known inducer of oxidative stress in plants, leads to stunted growth of the aerial tissue, reduction in the number of root hairs, and inhibition of leaf expansion in wild type plants, while these symptoms are less severe in the overexpressers. Our results indicate the potential of this metabolic engineering strategy to develop crops with enhanced biomass, abiotic stress tolerance, and phytoremediation capabilities.
4293771|Genetic transformation provides the means for modifying single horticultural traits in perennial plant cultivars without altering their phenotype. This capability is particularly valuable for perennial plants and tree species in which development of new cultivars is often hampered by their long generation time, high levels of heterozygosity, nucellar embryony, etc. Most of these conditions apply to many tropical and subtropical fruit crops. Targeting specific gene traits is predicated upon the ability to regenerate elite selections of what are generally trees from cell and tissue cultures. The integrity of the clone would thereby remain unchanged except for the altered trait. This review provides an overview of the genetic transformation of perennial tropical and subtropical fruit crops, i.e., citrus (Citrus spp.), banana and plantain (Musa groups AAA, AAB, ABB, etc.), mango (Mangifera indica L.), pineapple (Ananas comosus L.), avocado (Persea americana Mill.), passion fruit (Passiflora edulis L.), longan (Dimocarpus longan Lour.), and litchi (Litchi chinensis Sonn.).
20064829|Variations of composition and consistency of the culture medium and time of exposure to growth regulators wer assayed to optimize normal caulogenic response of Digitalis obscura hypocotyls cultured in vitro. The effects of the culture conditions on physiologic changes related to vitrification of the regenerated plants were also investigated. Liquid medium increased the bud-forming capacity of the explants but induced buds failed to develop into shoots and showed symptoms of vitrification. On agar-solidified media, maximum multiplication rates were achieved with 0.7% agar. Increasing agar concentration reduced vitrification but lowered the propagation rate. Changes in the strength of the macronutrients of Murashige and Skoog did not significantly affect the bud-forming capacity of the explants. In contrast, a drastic inhibitory effect on both bud formation and shoot elongation was produced when NHNO was omitted. Reduction of NHNO to one-half or one-fourth of the level of the original formulation not only increased the bud-forming capacity of D. obscura hypocotyls but also resulted in less vitrification. Modifications of time and method of exposure to growth regulators neither improved the multiplication rates nor overcame vitrification. Cardenolide content was lower in vitrified than in normal cultures and coincided with an overall reduction of photosynthetic pigments, lignin, and dry matter.
20461704|An efficient system was established for a higher frequency of protocorm-like body (PLB) formation from the callus of Dendrobium candidum Wall ex Lindl. The calluses were induced from longitudinally bisected segments of protocorms and subcultured two times every 40d on Murashige and Skoog medium with macronutrients at half strength, micronutrients at full strength, 2% sucrose, and with 8.8M 6-Benzylaminopurine. PLB formation was achieved when calluses were transferred onto the same basal medium without any plant growth regulators. PLBs developed into intact plantlets about 2cm in height and with four roots when on basal medium with 2.7M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid. Plantlets were transplanted into vermiculite with a 95% survival rate in a greenhouse. Histological observations proved that globular somatic embryos could be produced from the inside and surface of the embryogenic callus during PLB formation.
4293795|A novel protocol has been developed for inducing somatic embryogenesis from leaf cultures of Decalepis hamiltonii. Callus was obtained from leaf sections in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
29736179|Plant-based medicines have an important role in the lives of millions of people. The ancient knowledge of the use of plants as medicines has led to the discovery of many important western pharmaceuticals, and the popularity of whole plant preparations for a range of therapeutic applications is growing rapidly. However, there are many challenges in the production of plant-based medicines, many of which put both the consumer and the plant populations at risk. Modern biotechnology can be optimized to massproduce plants of specific chemical composition for use as particular treatments and applications. In this review, we have used one of the most important medicinal plant genera, Scutellaria, as a model to assess the potential of applications of biotechnology for the improvement of medicinal plants.
4292994|A fully habituated nonorganogenic (HNO) sugarbeet callus line, compared to a normal (hormone dependent) one originated from the same plant exhibits many characteristics of a vitrified tissue and several traits common to animal cancer cells. Four types of biochemical or metabolic characteristics of HNO callus [deficiency of tetrapyrrole-containing compounds; lipid (per)oxidation and malondialdehyde formation; high activity of enzyme protective systems; proline, glutamate, and polyamine accumulation] may be interpreted as responses to stress. The deficiency of tetrapyrrole-containing compounds can be considered an indirect protection against activated forms of oxygen as well as the higher activity of the antioxidant defense mechanisms. This fits with suggestions in the literature that the autonomy associated with plant cancer tissue is explained on the basis of antioxidants as stimulators of cell division and corresponding inhibitors of cell differentiation. Such changes occurring in HNO cells may in turn be responsible for a greater absorption and sensitivity to ammonium ions. An altered nitrogen metabolism leads to proline, glutamate, and polyamine accumulation. Lipid peroxidation and malondialdehyde accumulation rapidly occur in this very sensitive HNO callus in a prolonged culture cycle, which might be related to the appearance of necrosis bands. Thus there are arguments allowing us to consider HNO cells as mutants adapted to some stresses, but resulting changes in their structure might have rendered them still more sensitive to other factors.
23255666|An in vitro continuous endosperm callus culture derived from developing endosperm of transformation-amenable maize Hi-II genotype was obtained. The endosperm callus was composed of cells that differentiated into aleurone-like and starchy endosperm-like cell types. This callus has been maintained for 4 yr. Endosperm callus cells transcribe and produce zein proteins at a level similar to developing endosperm tissue. Starchy endosperm cells of the endosperm callus displayed active starch biosynthetic activity. The dual cell physiology of this culture limited the utility of the cell line for promoter analysis and transient assays of gene expression in the current culture conditions. However, because such cell line can be readily initiated and easily maintained for a long period of time, it provides an alternative tool for analysis of transgene expression in endosperm callus derived from transgenic maize lines in Hi-II background.
4293660|Lilium Asiatic hybrid 'Mona' bulblets were cultured in vitro for 100 d under photoautotrophic (
4293004|Plants and certain fungi respond to heavy metal toxicity with the induced synthesis of metal-binding peptides known as phytochelatins (PCs). With cadmium, PCs can bind the metal to form a low molecular weight PC-Cd complex and a high molecular weight
4293844|Current methods for creating transgenic varieties are labor and time intensive, comprised of the generation of hundreds of plants with random DNA insertions, screening for the few individuals with appropriate transgene expression and simple integration structure, and followed by a lengthy breeding process to introgress the engineered trait into cultivated varieties. Various modifications of existing methods have been proposed to speed up the different steps involved in plant transformation, as well as a few add-on technologies that seek to address issues related to biosafety or intellectual property. The problem with an assortment of independently developed improvements is that they do not integrate seamlessly into a single transformation system. This paper presents an integrated strategy for plant transformation, where the introduced DNA will be inserted precisely into the genome, the transgenic locus will be introgressed rapidly into field varieties, the extraneous transgenic DNA will be removed, the transgenic plants will be molecularly tagged, and the transgenic locus may be excised from pollen and/or seed.
4293122| Phytagel allowed the production of longer internodes, faster in vitro tuberization, and larger tubers in Solanum tuberosum L. cv. Baraka as compared to Difco Bacto-agar during both an 8-h photoperiod or in darkness. It also allowed a higher tuberization percentage in the dark. Only a 0.2% (wt/vol) Phytagel allowed optimal micropropagation and microtuberization under the photoperiod regime used. Water availability does not account for the observed differences in growth and tuberization between media containing the above gelling agents. In consequence, Phytagel appears as an advantageous alternative to agar for micropropagation and microtuberization. 
4293642|Isolation of zygotic embryos from seeds and their culture in a defined medium, initiated by Hannig in 1904, has proved to be a promising method to study the factors that control growth and differentiation of embryos. Using this technique, several investigations have focused on the carbohydrate and nitrogen nutrition during germination of cultured seed embryos and on the effects of plant hormones on their morphogenesis. Culture of immature embryos leads to their germination into weak seedlings, skipping the later stages of embryogenesis, by a process known as precocious germination. Progressively smaller embryos have been cultured by supplementation of the medium with coconut milk or hormonal additives or by osmotic adjustment of the medium by high concentrations of sucrose or mannitol. Although methods have not been developed for large-scale isolation and culture of zygotes, zygotes of maize isolated from embryo sacs and those obtained by in vitro fertilization have been grown in culture into full-term embryos. Embryo culture techniques are widely used to rescue embryos from seeds of wide crosses which usually abort and to overcome dormancy of recalcitrant seeds.
4292936|Over the past few years, techniques of cell biology, genetic screening, and gene manipulation have been developed to the extent that their impact on commercial development of improved plant varieties is predicted to have a measurable impact on agriculture by the year 2000 and beyond. A review will be given of progress that has been made in each of these areas toward the manipulation of crop plants for improved field performance and product quality. There are now several opportunities in which these techniques can be employed for the improvement of forestry species. In the light of the long-time scales involved in the generation of forestry products, it is important to focus on targets that are worthwhile pursuing commercially using appropriate technical routes. Selected examples will be given of the application of plant biotechnology techniques that promise potentially significant improvements for forestry species.
20461540|The purpose of this study was to develop an efficient micropropagation system for Mucuna pruriens, an important medicinal plant in India. A range of cytokinins was investigated for multiple shoot regeneration with cotyledonary node explants from 7-d-old aseptic seedlings. Of all the cytokinins, 6-benzyladenine (BA), kinetin (KIN) and 2-isopentenyl adenine (2-iP) tested in Murashige and Skoog medium (MS), BA was the most effective and 5.0 M was found to be optimum for inducing maximum shoots. Medium types, medium strength and pH were also investigated for induction and proliferation of shoots. The highest efficiency of shoot proliferation was observed in 5.0 M BA and 0.5 M -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) in half-strength MS medium at pH 5.8. The best condition for rooting was half-strength MS medium solidified with agar and with 2.0 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). After rooting, the plantlets were transferred to plastic pots filled with sterile soilrite where 90% grew and all exhibited normal development.
41496449|With the current trends in high density plantations of fruit trees, numerous clonal rootstocks of apple have been developed through various breeding programs. Among them, Merton 793 is the most popular in India because of the desirable traits of vigorous growth and resistance to woolly apple aphid and collar rot. The planting material of this rootstock cannot be multiplied at a desirable rate by means of conventional vegetative propagation methods, so micropropagation techniques are being explored to augment scarce planting material. Large number of plants can be produced in vitro under aseptic conditions, but there is always a danger of producing somaclonal variants by tissue culture technology. Thus, it is advisable to check the clonal fidelity of in vitro raised plants, especially of perennials prior to their field transplantation. The genetic stability of in vitro raised plants of apple rootstock Merton 793, multiplied through enhanced axillary bud proliferation up to 22 subculture passages, was tested by intersimple sequence repeat (ISSR) assay. Of 24 ISSR primers screened, 15 primers produced clear reproducible bands, resulting in a total of 134 distinct bands with an average of 8.9 bands per primer. Apple rootstock MM 111 and scion Jonathan, taken as outliers with tissue culture-raised progenies of Merton 793, ruled out the possibility that the invariant banding pattern occurred because of inefficiency of ISSR primers in detecting variations. The homogenous amplification profile observed for all the micropropagated plants compared to the donor plant confirmed the clonal fidelity of the tissue culture-raised Merton 793 plants. This suggests that axillary bud multiplication is the safest mode for multiplication of true-to-type plants. This is the first study that evaluates the applicability of ISSR markers in establishing clonal fidelity of tissue culture-raised apple plants.
20461706|In this study, we aimed to maximize the rates of somatic embryogenesis achievable in anther cultures of Chinese pink (Dianthus chinensis L.) (2n=2x=30). The genotype of the donor plant was found to be a major factor in determining the success rate. Conditions imposed during anther culture (notably medium composition and light conditions) and pretreatments (namely, cold, heat, and mannitol incubations) were also found to influence somatic embryo induction. For example, the highest levels of embryogenic callus induction were achieved when the donor buds had been cold pretreated and the subsequent anther culture was maintained in darkness. Furthermore, there appeared to be an interaction of genotype with culture conditions. Thus, in cultures of the cultivar (cv.) 'Carpet', the highest rates of embryogenesis were obtained when the anthers had received a 5-d heat-shock, but such a thermal treatment did not generally produce a significant effect. Likewise, a 3-d mannitol pretreatment was optimal only for the cross-hybrid line 'HC'. Assessment of the ploidy of the plants regenerated from the anther cultures revealed both diploid and tetraploid plants. Histological and cytological observations showed that all of these (both from n-pollen and 2n-pollen lines) derived from anther wall cells. Spontaneous chromosome doubling was inferred to have occurred during the embryogenic callus culture period.
4293261| Protocols and media constituents for efficient in vitro plant regeneration of Native Spearmint (Mentha spicata L. cultivar 'Native Spearmint') have been defined. Adventitious shoots were initiated either directly from morphogenetically competent cells of explants or primary callus. Leaf explants from at least 2-mo.-old in vitro-maintained shoots exhibited the greatest morphogenetic capacity. Explants derived from basal portions of leaves at the bottom of the shoot were most responsive, with up to a 100% regeneration frequency and greater than nine shoots per explant. Highest frequency of meristemoids and morphogenetic callus were initiated from explants cultured onto a basal medium containing Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts, supplemented with 4 mg thidiazuron (TDZ) per L and 25% (vol/vol) coconut water (CW) for 10 to 14 d in darkness. Bud and shoot development required removal of both TDZ and CW from the medium. Shoot propagules were transferred to basal medium supplemented with 0.01 mg -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) per L and grown under low light for about 2 wk to facilitate shoot elongation. Individual shoots about 1 cm tall were dissected and retransferred onto the same medium. Root initiation began within 4 to 6 d and a functional root system developed within 2 to 3 wk. These plantlets were transferred to soil and acclimated successfully for growth and development in a greenhouse. This is the first report of an efficient regeneration system for Native Spearmint based on adventitious organogenesis. 
41496433|A non-tissue culture approach for the generation of transgenic Indian mustard (Brassica juncea) plants using Agrobacterium tumefaciens was developed. Inflorescences with floral buds were vacuum infiltrated with a suspension of A. tumefaciens strain EHA105 carrying a binary vector with an intron-containing -glucuronidase (GUS) gene (uidA) as a scorable marker and a neomycin phosphotransferase gene (nptll) as a selectable marker. The seeds of agro-infiltrated plants (T) were germinated on a medium containing 130 mg 1 kanamycin, and the seedlings that remained green were considered T transgenic plants. Histochemical GUS assays, PCR, Southern analysis, and RT-PCR confirmed that both transgenes were integrated into the genome of T plants and were stably transmitted and expressed for over three generations. The transformants were obtained within 3-4 mo at a transformation frequency of 0.8%. This method may facilitate functional genomics and improvement of Brassica with novel desirable traits and with less time and expense.
4293757|High-frequency embryogenesis systems were established for hybrid yellow-poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera x L. chinense) and hybrid sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua x L. formosana) by modifying a medium originally developed for embryogenic yellow-poplar cultures. Embryogenic cultures of both hybrids, consisting of proembryogenic masses (PEMs), were initiated from immature hybrid seeds on an induction-maintenance medium (IMM) supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), benzyladenine (BA), and casein hydrolyzate (CH). For hybrid yellow-poplar, as many as 2100 germinable somatic embryos per 4000 cells or cell clumps were produced when PEMs were grown in liquid IMM lacking CH, at a pH that varied with genotype (3.5 or 5.6), followed by size fractionation and plating on semisolid embryo development medium (DM; IMM lacking 2,4-D and BA) without CH, but supplemented with
23016586|Malaysia is fortunate and proud to contain some of the world's richest biodiversity. In Malaysia, there are an estimated 185,000 species of fauna and 12,500 species of flowering plants, many of which are endemic to tropical forests in this region. Indeed, such diversity is an important and invaluable national asset to safeguard both present and future generations. In vitro conservation offers possible techniques for the preservation of plant germplasm that at present is difficult to maintain or is maintained with limited success. Research at the Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia (The National University of Malaysia) focuses on the cryopreservation of woody fruit species with seeds that cannot tolerate cryopreservation (recalcitrant or intermediate). Among the plants with recalcitrant seeds are such traditionally important edible tropical fruits as mangosteen, langsat, and rambai (Garcinia mangostana, Lansium domesticum, and Baccaurea motleyana). Citrus aurantifolia, Citrus suhuiensis, Citrus madurensis, Citrus hystrix, and Fortunella polyandra are among the Citrus and Citrus-related species studied. Cryopreservation studies include the Nepenthes species (pitcher plants) of Malaysia. Fundamental research on desiccation and low-temperature tolerance and on the physiology of desiccation are used to understand seed behavior, a prerequisite for the development of successful conservation techniques. At the same time, cryopreservation protocols for several Citrus and forestry species were developed for embryonic axes and adventitious shoots, mainly using rapid dehydration and PVS2 vitrification techniques. There are no successful standard techniques or protocols for species with highly recalcitrant seeds such as Garcinia species. Modification of existing protocols or development of new methods is required, but this can be accomplished only when a detailed understanding of the recalcitrant nature of the seeds or explants is achieved. While we have considerable knowledge concerning the basics of biochemical processes and some molecular data from work on desiccation-tolerant seeds, a great need remains for understanding the cause of the recalcitrance or desiccation sensitivity of these seeds. It may be necessary to use a systems biology approach that exploits the "omics" technologies to generate global molecular data. In combination with bioinformatics for data integration and analyses, this approach would move toward improved modeling of the biological pathways associated with the development of recalcitrant seeds.
23016694|Cisgenic engineering involves isolation and modification of genetic elements from the host genome, which are reinserted to develop plant varieties with improved characteristics. As a first step toward production of fungal-disease resistant cisgenic grapevines, the Vitis vinifera thaumatin-like protein (vvtl-1) gene was isolated from "Chardonnay" and reengineered for constitutive expression. Embryogenic cultures of "Thompson Seedless" were initiated from leaves and transformed with Agrobacterium to regenerate cisgenic VVTL-1 plants. Cisgene presence and copy number were confirmed by PCR and quantitative real-time PCR. Protein expression was measured using ELISA. Among the plant lines tested, two exhibited a 710 day delay in powdery mildew disease development during greenhouse screening and decreased severity of black rot disease in field tests. Berries exhibited a 42.5% reduction in sour-bunch rot disease incidence compared to non-transformed controls after 3 wk of storage at room temperature. Although plants recovered in this study contain viral promoters and reporter/ marker genes, this is the first report of a cisgenic approach to obtain broad-spectrum fungal-disease resistance in genetically engineered grapevine.
23016585|Cryogenic storage techniques have been developed and adopted for more than 100 (mainly agricultural) plant species worldwide, and within Australia, at least 30 critically endangered plants have been stored long term using cryogenic approaches. Nevertheless, there are many species that are very difficult to store using current procedures, and organizations involved in plant germplasm conservation (such as botanic gardens, agricultural institutions, etc.) that utilise cryogenic storage techniques are in some respects at a crossroads in their endeavours to cheaply and effectively store a wide selection of species and genotypes for conservation and agricultural/horticultural purposes. For taxa that are not amenable to current cryogenic approaches, new ways of developing cryogenic storage techniques need to be investigated, including research into the ways in which cell membranes interact and change when cooled to cryogenic temperatures (-196C in liquid nitrogen) in the presence of various cryoprotective agents. This review highlights the current state of cryogenic research both within Australia and internationally, provides a case study on threatened plant species and also describes several new research initiatives that aim to provide answers to why some native species are quite amenable to widely utilised cryogenic approaches whilst others are currently non-responsive. New approaches aim to integrate laboratory and membrane modelling paradigms to provide guidelines for the development of new cryopreservation protocols and to assess the robustness of theoretical models in predicting optimum cryogenic conditions.
20461537|In an attempt to increase productivity, the effects of the elicitors methyl jasmonate (MJ) and salicylic acid (SA) on the production of bilobalide (B), ginkgolide A (GA), and ginkgolide B (GB) were studied in cell suspension cultures of Ginkgo biloba. MJ treatments increased the amounts of B, GA, and GB, concomitant with a slight decrease in cell growth. After treatment of 0.01 mM MJ, levels of GA and GB increased 4.3- and 8.2-fold over controls by 12 h and declined after 24 h. The 1.0 mM MJ treatment produced a maximal release of B after 12 h of exposure and increased the concentration of B in the culture medium up to 6.25-fold compared with the controls. Treatment with 1.0 mM SA transiently enhanced GA and GB production up to 3.1- and 6.1-fold, respectively, compared with the control. However, treatment 1.0 mM SA did not have a significant effect on B production. When treated with 0.01 mM SA, the level of B in the cells was increased 5.4-fold over controls by 12 h and declined after 24 h. The concentrations and exposure times of both MJ and SA were factors that strongly affected the production of B, GA, and GB. The results from this study suggest that MJ and SA directly or indirectly increased the production of B, GA, and GB in cells, and stimulated the release of these metabolites into the culture medium.
4293006|Phytoremediation, using plants to clean up toxic wastes, is an idea that is attracting increasing attention from scientists, remediation engineers, and environmental professionals in government, industry, and universities. In situ remediation using plants has the potential to be less expensive than current technologies and to simultaneously initiate both detoxification of hazardous waste and site restoration. The perennial habit, extensive root mass, and large transpirational rates give trees advantages over other plants for use in remediation. Trees are already used for waste water clean-up, for site stabilization, and as barriers to subsurface flow of contaminated groundwater. Clonal propagation and the genetic tools of both classical breeding and genetic engineering exist for a number of both angiosperm and gymnosperm species, opening the door to creation of tree "remediation" cultivars. Work is underway to screen tree species for their ability to tolerate, take up, translocate, sequester, and degrade organic compounds and heavy metal ions. Both an indirect approach to remediation, through enhancing rhizosphere degradation of pollutants by engineering larger root masses in trees using Agrobacterium rhizogenes, and a direct approach to remediation, through transformation of trees with bacterial genes known to initiate the mineralization of halogenated phenolic compounds and trichloroethylene are reviewed.
23326891|An efficient protocol for the in vitro micrpropagation of Saussurea involucrata Kar. et Kir, an endangered Chinese medicinal plant, was developed. Shoot organogenesis was obtained following culture of leaf explants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with thidiazuron (TDZ). After 28 d of culture, 15.61.4 shoots were regenerated per leaf explant on MS medium containing 0.5 M TDZ. After transfer of shoots to a medium containing 5.0 M indole-3-acetic acid, approximately 80% of the regenerated shoots formed roots and whole plantlets. After transfer of rooted shoots to the greenhouse, 83% of the regenerated plantlets survived and grew vigorously. The regeneration protocol developed in this study provides a basis for germplasm conservation and for the production of plant material necessary to study the medicinally active components of S. involucrata.
4293103|Datura arborea and D. sanguinea hairy roots were produced by cocultivation of leaf fragments with Agrobacterium rhizogenes strain NCPP 1855. Adventitious buds emerged spontaneously, without exogenous growth regulators, from seven hairy root clones of D. arborea and from one hairy root clone of D. sanguinea. Regenerated plants were successfully acclimatized in the greenhouse. The integration of the bacterial TL-DNA into the genome of the putative transformed plants was confirmed by Southern blot analysis. Transgenic plants displayed increased ability to root in vivo. Morphological traits with relevant ornamental value like plant height, leaf number, size and shape, internode number, and internode length were also affected. Transformation by wild-type Ri TL-DNA provided the chance to study plant growth and differentiation and to select improved genotypes.
4293042|Proliferating axillary shoots of kiwifruit (Actinidia deliciosa A. Chev., C. F. Liang and A. R. Ferguson), var. deliciosa, cv. 'Hayward' were grown under solar (SL), white (WL), and blue (BL) light regimens to determine the accumulation of fresh and dry weight, proliferation rate, shoot growth (length), and the net leaf photosynthetic capacity at the CO
4293745|Chinese leymus is a perennial grass in the Gramineae family, which is widely distributed in Northern China and Mongolia. The breeding cycle in Chinese leymus is time-consuming because of its high level of seed dormancy. To improve the breeding process, we established a simple technique that shortens the breeding cycle by culturing immature embryos in vitro to produce plantlets immediately. This technique can potentially save 1 yr in each sexual breeding cycle. Factors affecting germination of immature embryos were evaluated. Immature embryos at different developmental stages were cultured on Murashige and Skoog basic medium. The immature embryos collected 11-16 d after pollination expressed the maximum germination rate (100%), but the maximum efficiency of recovery was observed at 15-16d after pollination. The germination time of embryos increased and length of the germinated shoots decreased as the age of the embryos increased. All plantlets survived transplantation to the field. Two generations were obtained within 2yr starting from immature embryo cultures, as compared to one generation using conventional breeding techniques.
20461657|We have evaluated the effects of the antibiotic hygromycin B on cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) callus induction, callus proliferation, and seed germination. Nontransgenic cotyledon and hypocotyl showed obvious variance in tolerance to hygromycin. Cotyledons were more sensitive to hygromycin than hypocotyls. Hygromycin at 7.5 and 20 mg l completely inhibited callus initiation from cotyledon and hypocotyl explants, respectively. Nontransformed calli did not grow on media supplemented with 10 mg l hygromycin and were killed at 15 mg l. In seed germination assay, the presence of 20 mg l hygromycin significantly suppressed shoot and root elongation of seedlings. This hygromycin concentration was applied to select regenerated transgenic plantlets and their progenies. Based on these results, we developed an efficient hygromycin selection protocol for Agrobacterium-mediated cotton transformation and regeneration.
41318717|A simple and efficient medium for callus tissue culture from garlic to obtain maximal proteolytic activity is described. Murashige and Skoog basal medium supplemented with 4.44 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 0.54 M benzyladenine (BA) resulted in the best biomass production and protease expression. The protease activity belongs to the class of cysteine proteases since they are inhibited by E and Leupeptin and also they are activated by 2-mercaptoethanol and cysteine. They showed good thermal stability. Three active protease bands were found in zymograms of Allium sativum. The in vitro system revealed a significantly higher protease level than storage and embryo tissues of in vivo bulbs.
4293938|Chili pepper (Capsicum annuum L., cv.
4293242| Young cotton (Gossypium hirsutum) ovules will produce fiber in vitro when floated on a defined culture medium. Our laboratory is interested in examining the effects of altered gravity environments on fiber development as a model for the effects of gravity on cell expansion and cellulose biosynthesis. Since liquid culture media are unsuitable for altered gravity experiments, addition of gelling agents to cotton ovule culture media is necessary. In this study we have systematically examined the effects of four gelling agents at several concentrations on fiber production in culture. A rapid screening method using toluidine blue O staining indicated that after 3 wk in culture, fiber growth on 0.15% (wt/vol) Phytagel medium was similar to fiber growth on liquid medium. More detailed analysis of fiber development revealed that fiber length was not influenced by the addition of Phytagel. Accumulation of cellulose, however, was reduced 50-60% compared with fibers produced in liquid media after 3 wk in culture. The fiber cellulose content rose with additional time in culture for both solid and liquid media treatments. By 4 wk in culture, the difference in cellulose content of fiber cell walls grown on solid versus liquid media was less than 20%. This variance in growth response on gelled media could be due to differences in media matric potential, to the immobility of ions trapped within the gel, or to toxicity of contaminants copurifying with Phytagel. By identifying why ovule growth and fiber cellulose biosynthesis are reduced in cultures grown on gelled media, it will be possible to reveal new information about these processes in a system that is less complicated than physiological systems at the whole plant level. 
20171623|Randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) techniques were applied to assess genetic instability among micropropagated tea [Camellia sinensis (L). O. Kuntze] cultivar 'T-78'. Out of 49 random 10-mer primers, 11 generated polymorphism in four out of 17 micropropagated plants and one mother plant. A total of 221 bands, ranging from 525 bp to 2.5 kb, were produced by the 49 primers. Twenty-four were polymorphic for those four plants. However, the remaining bands were monomorphic among all plants. Polymorphism among those four plants showed an identical banding pattern suggesting the occurrence of a single mutation. Our results demonstrated that RAPD can be used successfully to determine the genetic instability among micropropagated plants which otherwise were morphologically indistinguishable.
29736197|An efficient and reproducible method for inducing a large number of bulblets from rhizome explants of Curculigo orchioides Gaertn., an endangered medicinal herb, has been developed. The rhizome pieces, measuring about 1  1 cm (length  width), were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with different concentrations of the cytokinins 6-benzylaminopurine, kinetin, and thidiazuron (TDZ) alone or in combination with 1-naphthalene acetic acid or indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). Of the three cytokinins used, TDZ at 7 M gave the maximum response, with 82% of the cultures responding with an average number of 15.4 bulblets per explant. The addition of auxins with cytokinin considerably increased the response. The optimum induction occurred on MS medium supplemented with 7 M TDZ and 0.5 M IBA. On this medium, 88% of the cultures responded with an average number of 21.4 bulblets per explant. Experiments were also carried out to investigate the role of the sugars sucrose, mannose, and glucose along with 7 M TDZ and 0.5 M IBA. The results indicate that sucrose and mannose at particular concentrations have critical roles in promoting in vitro bulblet induction. The maximum result was observed on MS medium supplemented with 7 M TDZ, 0.5 M IBA, and 200 mM mannose. On this medium, 97% of the cultures responded with an average number of 26.8 bulblets per culture. Several secondary bulblets developing from the leaf blades of primary bulblets were produced when the latter were transferred to MS basal medium for further development. Out of the 45 bulblets transferred to soil, 40 survived. This protocol can be used for the rapid micropropagation of this endangered medicinal herb.
4293835|The effects of growth regulators on culture response of different pyrethrum (Chrysanthemum cinerariaefolium Vis.) genotypes were investigated. In the genotype Sb/66/107, the presence of 2,4-dichorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) at
4293474|Zeatin and its derivatives are major constituents of higher plant cytokinins. Metabolic steps modifying the isoprenoid side chain, such as O-glycosylation, are expected to have a direct bearing on cytokinin-mediated processes. To examine this possibility, transgenic tobacco plants were generated harboring a gene (ZOG1) encoding a zeatin O-glucosyltransferase from Phaseolus lunatus under the control of a constitutive (35S) and an inducible (Tet) promoter. The presence of the transgene resulted in elevated enzyme production and conversion of exogenous zeatin to its O-glucoside, confirming the expression of the ZOG1 gene in transgenic plants. Endogenous O-glucosylzeatin was increased from less than 1 pmol per g fresh weight in leaves and roots of controls to 26 and 68 pmol per g fresh weight in leaves and roots of 35S-ZOG1 transformants, respectively. In cytokinin/auxin interaction experiments, Tet-ZOG1 leaf discs, in the presence of tetracycline, required 10-fold higher zeatin concentrations for the formation of shoots and callus than the controls. In 35S-ZOG1 plants, developmental changes included adventitious root formation on the lower stems, shorter stature, and axillary shoot growth. Thus, increased zeatin O-glucosylation in detached, cytokinin-dependent tissues leads to a shift in the response to exogenous zeatin indicative of cytokinin sequestering. In whole plants the effect can simulate a reduction or a rise in cytokinin activity depending on the tissue and stage of development. The use of tissue- and stage-specific promoters in the future will allow more precise analyses and targeted growth alterations.
20461655|Using immature embryos and cotyledons as explants, a successful system to culture immature embryos and induce direct regeneration from cotyledons was established for Prunus mume "Xuemei". For immature embryo culture, a high frequency of plantlet formation (89.5%) from the embryonic axis was obtained using half-strength Murashige and Skoog (1/2 MS) medium supplemented with 13.2 M 6-benzyladenine (BA) and 2.7 M 1-naphthaleneacetic (NAA). Shoots formed directly from cotyledons with the embryo axis intact when explants were cultured on 1/2 MS medium containing 2.2 M BA with different combinations of NAA (2.7, 5.4 M) and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) (0, 2.5, 5.0 M). Better results were achieved when the embryonic axis was removed from the cotyledons and cultured on 1/2 MS medium supplement with 13.2 M BA, 2.7 M NAA or 2.2 M BA, 2.2 M thidiazuron (TDZ), and 2.7 M NAA, respectively. Regenerated shoots were successfully rooted on 1/2 MS or Woody Plant medium (WPM) supplemented with 2.5-5.0 M IBA. The effect of the embryonic axis, BA, and TDZ on cotyledon regeneration was investigated in detail. Rooted plantlets were transferred to soil successfully.
20461592|In vitro-stored plant germplasm is usually evaluated by visual analysis of the plant based on subjective characters. To reduce the variability in these evaluations, we developed a digital-image evaluation system for in vitro-stored plantlets. This study compares the standard visual evaluation system with a digital analysis system to determine if digital analysis can effectively quantify the health of diverse Humulus germplasm. Eight cultivars of Humulus lupulus L. were stored on standard Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with iron alone (EDTA chelated) and on MS iron with 100 or 200 mg l sequestrene 138 iron (EDDHA chelated). Digital images of the upper two nodes of each plantlet were evaluated for red, green, blue, green/red ratio, and modified normalized difference vegetation index (MNDVI = R - G/R + G). Evaluation of each plantlet for MNDVI values showed consistent significant differences for all treatments only at the upper node. Significant differences for visual and the MNDVI values among the three iron treatments were observed at the upper node of most of the eight hop cultivars. Regression analysis of the upper node MNDVI values vs. whole-plant visual ratings showed positive correlations for most cultivars. Effects of iron treatments on storage duration were also analyzed for both visual and digital systems. There were significant differences among MNDVI values for plantlets stored on medium with standard MS iron alone (EDTA chelated) and with the addition of sequestrene 138 iron. In general, the MNDVI value of the upper node correlated well with visual ratings and could be used to determine the health of in vitro stored hops.
4293796|The major objective of this study was to determine if the observed changes in polyamines and their biosynthetic enzymes during somatic embryo development were specifically related to either the stage of the embryo development or to the duration of time spent on the maturation medium. Somatic embryos of red spruce (Picea rubens) at different developmental stages, grown in the embryo development and maturation media for various lengths of time, were separated from the associated subtending tissue (embryogenic and the suspensor cell masses) and analyzed for their polyamine content as well as for polyamine biosynthetic enzyme activities. Polyamine content was also analyzed in embryos representing different stages of development that were collected from the same culture plate at the same time and the subtending tissue surrounding them. Putrescine was the predominant polyamine in the pro-embryogenic tissue, while spermidine was predominant during embryo development. Significant changes in spermidine/putrescine and spermine/putrescine ratios were observed at all stages of embryo development as compared to the pro-embryogenic cell mass. Changes in the ratios of various polyamines were clearly correlated with the developmental stage of the embryo rather than the period of growth in the maturation medium. Whereas the activities of both ornithine decarboxylase and arginine decarboxylase increased by week 3 or 4 and stayed high during the subsequent 6 wk of growth, the activity of S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase steadily declined during embryo development.
20541001|Whole plants were regenerated from excised leaves of Drimiopsis kirkii Baker (Lily of the Valley) through direct somatic embryogenesis. An initial exposure to a low level of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D, 0.45 M) in the medium was essential in inducing the direct formation of somatic embryos. A high concentration of 2,4-D (4.52 M) in the proliferation medium reduced embryogenesis and enhanced callus formation. The presence of kinetin in the medium enhanced the somatic-embryogenesis-inducing effect of 2,4-D (0.45 M). The maximum embryogenesis rate (4,026 somatic embryos per gram of leaf) was obtained in explants cultured for 30 d in medium supplemented with 2.33 M kinetin and 0.45 M 2,4-D (embryo induction medium). Kinetin (4.65 M) also enhanced embryo germination (97.6%), but the presence of -naphthalene acetic acid in the medium drastically reduced embryo germination. Following conversion, the regenerated plantlets were transferred to soil and showed normal morphological characteristics.
4293031|We estimated the level of triglycerides (triacylglycerol) at intervals of 2 wk during somatic embryogenesis in peanut. The initial triglyceride content in the leaflet explants was depleted during the formation of embryogenic tissue. It increased with the onset of somatic embryogenesis. Concentration of triglyceride in a fully developed embryo increased further if incubated in the same dehydrated medium for a longer period of time. Transferring these embryos to fresh medium led to germination of somatic embryos with a depletion of storage lipids.
4293437|Mycorrhization of in vitro-propagated plantlets is having a 'positive impact' on their posttransplanting performance. Different aspects of the technology, such as the need for improvement, screening bioassays for selection of the most effective strains, and determination of the multiple role played by mycorrhiza, are discussed. Various constraints pertaining to the utilization of this technology and their possible solutions, such as the use of mixed cultures and aspects of technology transfer are also reviewed.
4293851|Regeneration of plants via somatic embryogenesis was achieved from zygotic embryo explants isolated from mature seeds of Schisandra chinensis. Merkle and Sommer's medium, fortified with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D;
23326890|The objective of the present study was to investigate the origin of discrepancy between experimental results in in vitro culture of Turkish melon (Cucumis melo L.) cultivars, conducted by the same individual using the same protocol and same seed batches in two different laboratories. The difference in the sucrose source was found to be the major reason for the deviation in results between the two laboratories. The percentage of regenerating explants and the number of bud-like protuberances and/or shoots were significantly greater when a food-grade Turkish sucrose was used in the medium compared with analytical-grade sucrose. Media formulated with the food-grade sucrose regenerated 37 and 67 % more explants and bud-like protuberances and/or shoots per explant, respectively, than media containing analytical-grade sucrose. No meaningful differences were found in added elements or anions between the sucrose sources or by liquid chromatography/mass spectroscopy. The only significant chemical difference observed between the sucrose samples was the presence of melanoidins (Maillard reaction products) in the food-grade sucrose. The melanoidins were of high molecular weight (>3,000 Da determined by ultrafiltration), with characteristic ultravioletvisible spectra and in vitro antioxidant activity. Melanoidin-containing sucrose can be differentiated by color and spectroscopy.
20461639|Burma reed (Neyraudia arundinacea Henr.) is a C grass native to Southeast Asia and Indomalaya that grows quickly, exhibits strong resistance to environmental stresses, and is extremely adaptable. It can be widely utilized as a bioenergy crop for biomass conversion. In vitro multiple shoots were first established from axillary buds and then subcultured on propagation medium containing 10 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 2.0 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Multishoot clumps were used as explants to induce somatic embryogenesis and adventitious shoot formation. The results showed that auxin 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid or NAA play a key role for the induction of somatic embryogenesis and adventitious shoot formation, whereas cytokinin BA or kineatin enhance shoot proliferation and plant regeneration from callus and somatic embryos. Efficient somatic embryogenesis, mass propagation, and plant regeneration systems in Burma reed were established.
4293052| Two methods (I and II) for somatic embryo production from embryogenic suspension cultures of Camellia japonica are presented. Method I, embryogenic suspension cultures, was established from suspension cultures initiated from leaf-derived callus. These cultures were maintained by reducing agitation and increasing subculture interval. Induction of somatic embryogenesis was achieved in MS28 medium, 6, 12, 24, and 36 mo. after culture establishment. Embryo production decreased after 1 yr of culture. Method II, suspensions of single embryogenic cells and proembryos, was obtained from leaves cultured in liquid MS 13 medium 6 wk after culture initiation. Embryo production was 23 embryos/ml. Germination of cell suspension-derived embryos on MS56 medium was 16.7% (4.2%) for method I, and 35.4% (5.1%) for method II. The embryos germinated into plantlets with 0 to 7 axillary shoots. 
42568716|In vitro cultivation systems of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi are useful tools to study the interaction between plants and their fungal symbiont, and also to develop new biotechnologies. Plantlets of the latex-producing species Hevea brasiliensis clone PB 260 were grown in a dense extraradical mycelium network of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Rhizophagus irregularis MUCL 41833 developed from a mycelium donor plant (Medicago truncatula A17). The factors indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), 2-morpholineoethanesulfonic acid monohydrate (MES) buffer, and carbon dioxide (CO) were tested on root development and colonization by the fungus. No colonization was observed in the presence of plantlets pre-treated with IBA. The highest levels of root colonization were obtained when plantlets were mycorrhized under a high CO concentration (1,000 molmol) with MES (10 mM) added to the growth medium. Widespread root colonization (with presence of arbuscules, intraradical mycelium, and spores/vesicles) was predominantly observed in newly produced roots. Therefore, it appears essential to improve root initiation and growth for improving in vitro mycorrhization of H. brasiliensis. We demonstrated the potential of the "mycelium donor plant" in vitro culture system to produce colonized H. brasiliensis plantlets before their transfer to ex vitro conditions.
20541000|Plant regeneration through direct somatic embryogenesis in Aeschynanthus radicans 'Mona Lisa' was achieved in this study. Globular somatic embryos were formed directly from cut edges of leaf explants and cut ends or on the surface of stem explants 4 wk after culture on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with N-phenyl-N-1, 2, 3-thiadiazol-5-ylurea (TDZ) with -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA), TDZ with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), or 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) or kintin (KN) with 2,4-D. MS medium containing 9.08 M TDZ and 2.68 M 2,4-D resulted in 71% of stem explants producing somatic embryos. In contrast, 40% of leaf explants produced somatic embryos when induced in medium containing 6.81 M TDZ and 2.68 M 2,4-D. Somatic embryos matured, and some germinated into small plants on the initial induction medium. Up to 64% of stem explants cultured on medium supplemented with 9.08 M TDZ+2.68 M 2,4-D, 36% of leaf explants cultured on medium containing 6.81 M TDZ and 2.68 M 2,4-D had somatic embryo germination before or after transferring onto MS medium containing 8.88 M BA and 1.07 M NAA. Shoots elongated better and roots developed well on MS medium without growth regulators. Approximately 30-50 plantlets were regenerated from each stem or leaf explant. The regenerated plants grew vigorously after transplanting to a soil-less substrate in a shaded greenhouse with more than a 98% survival rate. Three months after their establishment in the shaded greenhouse, 500 plants regenerated from stem explants were morphologically evaluated, from which five types of variants that had large, orbicular, elliptic, small, and lanceolate leaves were identified. Flow cytometry analysis of the variants along with the parent showed that they all had one identical peak, indicating that the variant lines, like the parent, were diploid. The mean nuclear DNA contents of the variant lines and their parent ranged from 4.90 to 4.99 pg 2C, which were not significantly different statistically. The results suggest that the regenerated plants have a stable ploidy level, and the regeneration method established in this study can be used for rapid propagation of ploidystable Aeschynanthus radicans.
20461630|Two independent experiments were performed to establish micropropagation of Cleome spinosa from stem segments. In the first experiment, direct shoot organogenesis on hypocotyl explants from 2-mo.-old nursery-grown seedlings was obtained on Murashige and Skoog medium with different combinations of benzyladenine (BA) and 6-furfurylaminopurine, added either individually or in combination. Best proliferation rates occurred in the presence of 2.2 and 4.4 M BA and the highest mean number of shoots was produced in response to 4.4 M BA. In the second experiment, regeneration via direct organogenesis was also obtained from nodal and internodal segments of axenic plants cultured in the presence of BA (4.4 and 8.8 M) in association with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) (0.57 and 1.14 M). Internodal explants were the most responsive on all media tested. The best mean number of shoots per explant was achieved on medium with 4.4 M BA in association with 0.57 M IAA. Histological studies of the globular structures formed at the apical portion of the explants revealed direct shoot regeneration and adventitious shoot differentiation from meristematic centers around the vascular bundles of the primary regenerants. All shoots elongated and rooted on MS0 medium. The acclimatization rates ranged between 70 and 84%. Plants reached to maturity and flowered 4 mo. after transfer to ex vitro conditions.
20461728|A method for in vitro regeneration of Searsia dentata from nodal and shoot tip explants derived from mature trees is outlined. Nodal explants produced multiple shoots from the axis when cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 3% sucrose supplemented with 0, 5, 7.5, 10, or 12.5 M N-benzyladenine (BA). An average of 5.3 shoots was obtained from nodal explants on 10 M BA. For shoot tip explants, however, supplementation of -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) with BA favored a caulogenic response. A maximum of 6.1 shoots were produced per shoot tip explant on MS containing 7.5 M BA plus 5.0 M NAA. The in vitro-regenerated shoots produced roots when transferred to full-strength MS medium containing 3% sucrose and 10 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). The developed plantlets were transferred initially to a mist house. After an initial acclimatization period of 3-4 mo, plantlets were shifted to the greenhouse where they thrived for 9 mo. The standardized protocol for mass propagation of S. dentata should eliminate the dependence on natural stands of plants for traditional medicinal purposes, and will also serve as a means of conservation as the species is heavily overexploited.
20461665|This study describes a protocol for the induction of high frequency somatic embryogenesis directly from immature inflorescence explants in three sorghum genotypes (SPV-462, SPV-839, and M35-1). The effect of various growth regulators on somatic embryogenesis was investigated. High frequency somatic embrogenesis was obtained on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2 mg l 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), and addition of 0.5 mg l kinetin (KN) in the medium further improved the formation of somatic embryos per explant in all genotypes. The presence of 1.5 mg l 6-benzylaminopurine plus 1.0 mg l KN in MS medium was most efficient for maturation and germination of somatic embryos. The genotype SPV-462 performed better than SPV-839 and M35-1 in terms of induction and germination of somatic embryos. Organogenesis also occurred in callus of all genotypes at the frequency of 20-25%. Regenerated plants from somatic embryos were successfully acclimatized in soil in the greenhouse where plants were grown to maturity, flowered, and set seeds. Regenerated plants appeared normal like that of the seed-raised plants.
4293420| Compact callus clusters showing a certain level of cellular or tissue differentiation were established from Catharanthus roseus stem and leaf explants in a modified MS liquid induction medium supplemented with 5.37 M -naphthaleneacetic acid and 4.65 M kinetin. In the induction medium most leaf explants developed into friable half-closed hollow callus clusters, whereas in the same medium containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid instead of -naphthaleneacetic acid, most leaf explants were induced to form dispersed cell suspension cultures. Characteristics of these different types of suspension cultures were compared, and the results showed that the compact callus clusters could synthesize indole alkaloids 1.9- and 2.4-fold higher than the half-closed hollow callus clusters and dispersed cell cultures, respectively. The degree of compaction expressed by the ratio of fresh weight to dry weight of these suspension cultures was correlated to indole alkaloid production. Our studies also postulated that the level of cellular/tissue differentiation might be responsible for these different alkaloid synthesis capabilities. Sucrose regime affected some properties (the size, degree of compaction, differentiation level) of the compact callus cluster cultures and therefore influenced alkaloid production. 
4293476|Embryonal explants from water chestnut (Trapa japonica Flerov) seeds germinated with high efficiency following a 40-d cold treatment at 5 C on half-strength MS (Murashige and Skoog) medium supplemented with
20461595|This study reports a protocol for germination of Givotia rottleriformis (var. Tel. Thella Poniki) using zygotic embryo culture. A 100% germination was obtained by culturing the embryos on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 30g l sucrose. A sucrose concentration lower or higher than 30g l resulted in lower germination or promoted callus formation. The seedling growth was promoted by the addition of 100mg l tyrosine in the medium. Seedlings germinated in the presence of 0.2-0.4mg l -naphthaleneacetic acid and 0.3-0.5mg l indole-3-butyric acid were abnormal, showing a slender stem with slender roots or forming callus with stout roots. Germination also affected embryo orientation in culture; placing embryos upright on the medium was most beneficial for germination. The in vitro-germinated seedlings were acclimatized in soil under shady conditions with a survival rate of 60-70%. These plants were phenotypically normal, healthy, and similar to donor plants. This protocol will be useful for overcoming seed dormancy and for rapid multiplication and conservation of G. rottleriformis using zygotic embryo culture.
24596331|In vitro embryogenesis is an asexual reproduction process by which embryos are produced from either gametophytic (androecium/gynoecium) or sporophytic (somatic) tissues. Regardless of the type of explant used, the hallmark of this process is that the explant cells undergo dedifferentiation and acquire meristematic identity. The developmental program of such meristematic cells can then be redirected to form somatic embryos, depending on the imposed culture environment. Analysis of proteomes and transcriptomes has led to the molecular identification and functional characterization of many genes involved in the initiation and development of somatic embryos. These genes can be classified into three categories: embryonic induction, embryonic, and maturation. So far, few genes involved in early somatic embryogenesis have been characterized because isolation of early pure embryonic tissue is very difficult. This review focuses on genes regulating the induction process. Furthermore, we employed bioinformatic tools and pathway databases to identify genes that may play roles in regulating early somatic embryogenesis. A total of 51 proteins were identified that may function in early somatic embryogenesis. These proteins are predicted to be involved in hormone signal transduction, chromatin remodeling, cell cycle regulation, cellulose biosynthetic and metabolic activity, GTPase signal transduction, transcription regulation, meristem formation and maintenance, and/or apoptosis and microtubule organization. This review will help advance knowledge and promote research on molecular regulation of early somatic embryogenesis.
20461638|An efficient plant regeneration protocol was established for castor (Ricinus communis L.) Hypocotyl tissue from zygotic embryo axis produced adventitious shoots when treated with either thidiazuron (TDZ, 1 M) or 6-benzylaminopurine (BA, 20 M). TDZ resulted in more than a threefold higher rate of shoot induction (a maximum of 24.2 shoots per explant) than BA (6.8 shoots). Our results also showed that the pretreatment of explants in the dark increased the number of shoots regenerated per explant by 82% and 36% with TDZ and BA, respectively. The elongation of hypocotyl tissue in the dark appears to be the primary cause of the increase. Comparable rates of rooting were achieved on the media supplemented with either indole-3-butyric acid (IBA, 84.3%) or 1-naphthalene-acetic acid (NAA, 87.4%) at 5 M. However, IBA was more efficient in promoting root and shoot development, resulting in a higher rate of establishment (93.5%) in the soil, compared to the rate with NAA (39.5%). Histological analysis showed the adventitious induction of the shoot buds originated from the cortex of the hypocotyl tissue.
42568708|Production of orchid seedlings often requires complex laboratory infrastructure; therefore, a simple and low-cost method would be of general benefit to many small-scale producers and orchid enthusiasts. This article describes a protocol for preparing culture media using a domestic microwave oven. Two alternative culture media were evaluated for a range of factors, including the duration of boiling, the efficacy of antiseptics applied to jars and media, the concentration of the antiseptic hydrogen peroxide required for sterilization, and the growth of Oncidium cebolleta and Phalaenopsis amabilis plantlets in media prepared using a microwave oven compared with conventionally autoclaved media. It was found that addition of 2 mL of 30% hydrogen peroxide (Peridrol solution) per liter of culture medium, an 8-min boiling time in the microwave oven, and 8 g/L agar were sufficient to produce solidified culture media, which facilitated orchard seed germination and growth without contamination. Furthermore, the microwaved media exhibited superior plantlet growth to autoclaved media.
20064985|Larix was chosen for the study on interspecies protoplast fusion due to its ability to regenerate plants from protoplasts derived from embryogenic cultures. L. laricina line L2 was used in fusion experiments with either L.  eurolepis line L6 or L.  leptoeuropaea line L5. A method of unambiguous labeling of parental protoplasts prior to fusion was developed using vital fluorescent dyes. Of a number of dyes tested, only rhodamine B hexyl ester chloride (R6) and 3,3-dihexylox-carbocyanine iodide (DiOC) stained the protoplasts in a consistent and uniform fashion. The fusion of mixed parental protoplasts that were internally labeled was carried out either in the presence of a 20% polyethylene glycol (PEG) solution or in an electric field. The progress of fusion was readily observed, taking only minutes under the experimental conditions. The fusion products could be identified by dual fluorescence several h after the onset of fusion. Heterofusion frequencies of approximately 18% and 6% in the presence of PEG and an electric field, respectively, were attained. Postfusion cultures between L.  laricina protoplasts and protoplasts of L.  leptoeuropaea gave rise to cell colonies and between L. laricina and L.  eurolepis, to mature somatic embryos.
4293821|As an alternative to seed propagation, an efficient micropropagation system based on axillary shoot formation and subsequent rooting was developed for the threatened and medicinal plant species Dorstenia gigas (Moraceae). Three different basal media were tested. For the best basal medium, a modified WPM medium, different concentrations of the carbohydrates sucrose, glucose, fructose and maltose were tested. The total number of shoots was not markedly affected. For all carbohydrates but maltose, however, there was a reduction in the number of normal, healthy shoots for carbohydrate concentrations greater than 14.6 mM for the disaccharides and 27.8 mM for the monosaccharides (i.e., approximately
23326874|Camelina sativa is a promising under-exploited oilseed crop with potential to become a biofuel feedstock. The ability to transform C. sativa would allow for the rapid introduction of novel traits into this emerging crop. We report the development of an Agrobacterium-based floral dip transformation method, requiring no vacuum-infiltration step, with transformation efficiencies up to 0.8%. C. sativa cultivars Ames 26665, "Calena" A3U7761, Ames 1043, and "Celine" were tested using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains GV3101, EHA105, and At503. Use of all strains and cultivars resulted in transformed plants; however, GV3101 was the only Agrobacterium strain and Ames 1043 the only C. sativa cultivar to yield transformed plants under all conditions tested. Progeny analysis revealed that in approximately 78% of the transformed plants, the transgene segregated as a single locus. Furthermore, a high-throughput, filter paper-based PCR method was developed to screen marker-free transformed plants. Together, these methods will allow for easier introduction of new genes into this promising oilseed crop.
20064882|Germinated zygotic embryos of Pacific yew (Taxus brevifolia) were transiently transformed with the expression vector pBl121, as demonstrated by expression of the -glucuronidase (GUS) gene. Embryos exhibited sectors of blue color following treatment with DNA and dimethyl sulfoxide (optimal concentration of 2.25%). However, transient expression depended on the presence of ions in the buffer, as no GUS activity was observed when deionized water was used in place of other buffers. GUS gene expression was dependent on the developmental stage of the embryo, since the frequency of GUS expression was elevated in embryos incubated with the expression vector during a period from 4 to 8 wk after culture of DCR medium. In addition, the utility of using zygotic embryos from mature seeds for tissue culture and transient expression experiments was also examined.
4293391| A method has been developed to facilitate shoot formation from leaf explants of almond. Leaves were dissected from micropropagated shoot cultures of the commercial cultivars Nonpareil and Ne Plus Ultra, and sections incubated on Almehdi and Parfitt's (1986) basal medium (AP) with varied plant growth-regulator conditions. Three auxins, 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), in combination with two cytokinins, benzylaminopurine (BA) and thidiazuron (TDZ), were tested at various concentrations along with casein hydrolysate (CH) to determine the conditions most conducive to adventitious shoot regeneration. Response to the tested plant growth-regulator conditions varied with genotype. Of the three auxins tested, NAA and IBA induced adventitious shoots from Ne Plus Ultra explants, but only IBA was effective for Nonpareil. For the cytokinins, shoot development from Ne Plus Ultra occurred in the presence of either BA or TDZ, whereas for Nonpareil only TDZ was effective unless CH was incorporated in the basal medium. The inclusion of CH (0.1% w/v) improved callus morphology, and increased regeneration frequencies for both cultivars. Maximum regeneration frequencies for Ne Plus Ultra (44.4%) and Nonpareil (5.5%) were achieved on AP basal salts supplemented with CH, IBA (9.8 M), and TDZ at 22.7 and 6.8 M, respectively. 
20171633|Controlled mild desiccation of mature white spruce somatic embryos prior to germination improves the quality of the germinated embryos. More severe desiccation results in increased injury and death but is desirable for long-term storage of embryos and production of desiccated artificial seed. A method was developed to improve desiccation tolerance in somatic embryos using a temperature treatment. Culture plates with embryos at four stages of development were subjected to temperatures of 1, 5, 10, or 20C for periods of 0, 1, 2, 4, or 8 wk duration. After the temperature treatment, the embryos were harvested and air-dried for 2 h under a laminar flow hood. Dried embryos were placed directly on germination medium and the quality of the germinants was assessed after 4 wk. The initial maturation stage of the embryo and the temperature and duration of the treatment had a significant effect on the quality of the germinants. Most treatments caused marked differential survival of organs. The optimal response was obtained with embryos that had been grown for 51 d (cotyledonary stage) on maturation medium and that were subsequently exposed to a temperature of 5C for 8 wk prior to air drying. This treatment produced 58% undamaged germinants with normal cotyledons, hypocotyls, and roots. Only 1% of the untreated air-dried embryos germinated normally.
23321167|Mature embryos from hulled, regenerable GP-1 (A. sativa L.), hull-less, recalcitrant Tibor (A. nuda L.) and reciprocal crosses were cultured in vitro on a putrescine- (Put) containing medium. Hormone-free Murashige and Skoog medium (MS-0) or shoot proliferation medium (SPM) [2.0 mg l-1 (9.0 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D)], with and without 0.5 mM Put or 1 mM Put, were tested for effects on somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration. Put/SPM (0.5 mM) was the best medium for both somatic embryos (SEs) and plant numbers per gram of callus, regardless of genotype. This effect was most evident in Tibor, which produced no somatic embryos or plants on SPM, a previously published regeneration medium, and in Tibor  GP-1, which produced reduced numbers of SE and plants on the remaining media. The number of SEs per gram of callus for GP-1 and GP-1  Tibor showed little significant differences between the different media. Put treatments produced plants from the four genotypes but the regeneration efficiency on Put-containing medium was similar or even better than on SPM for explants containing maternal GP-1 germplasm. This suggests that Put-containing MS-0 medium can be used for testing regeneration of other oat lines. In addition, SPM containing 0.5 mM Put can be used to induce significant regeneration of plants from normally recalcitrant genotypes. This improvement greatly increases the number of potential germplasms for further transformation efforts.
4292998|Plants derived from anther culture are theoretically haploid, but diploid plants are also known to arise. Anther culture-derived diploid plants are usually homozygous and are believed to be due to spontaneous doubling of chromosomes in either microsporocytes or callus cells during the culture process. However, heterozygous diploid regenerants may also arise from a) regeneration from cultured somatic cells, b) mutation occurring during or after a spontaneous doubling event, c) fusion of unlike haploid cells in chimeric callus, and d) regeneration from diploid microsporocytes resulting from aberrant meioses. This study was designed to elucidate the frequency and origin of diploid regenerants from rice anther culture. Regenerants were obtained from 11 F
4292966|Media for induction of somatic embryogenesis from immature cotyledonary tissues of Azadirachta indica (Neem) were determined. Callus was initiated on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with
4293055| Cereus peruvianus seedlings were used as a source of stem expiants to determine the effective conditions for inducing and maintaining callus tissues in a state of rapid growth, as well as to obtain plants regenerated from callus cultures. Factorial combinations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and kinetin in MS medium were tested, and we concluded that the 18.1 M 2,4-D and 18.6 or 27.9 M kinetin combinations were suitable for callus induction. The cactus shoots were produced from the friable callus; root elongation occurred within 2 wk in medium without 2,4-D and with 18.6 M kinetin. This method can be used to rapidly produce many C. peruvianus plants. 
25623015|Protoplast culture and plant regeneration of an important medicinal plant Tylophora indica were achieved through callus regeneration. Protoplasts were isolated from leaf mesophyll cells and cultured at a density of 5  10 protoplasts per gram fresh weight, which is required for the highest frequency of protoplast division (33.7%) and plating efficiency (9.3%). The first division was observed 2 d after plating and the second division after 4 d. Culture medium consists of Murashige and Skoog (MS) liquid medium with 4 M 2,4-D, 0.4 M mannitol and 3% (w/v) sucrose with pH adjusted to 5.8. After 45 d of culture at 25C in the dark, protoplasts formed colonies consisting of about 100 cells. The protoplast-derived microcalli were visible to the naked eye within 60 d of culture and reached a size of 0.2-0.4 mm in diameter after 90 d. Calli of 0.2-0.4-mm size were transferred to MS medium supplemented with 2,4-D (4 M), 3% (w/v) sucrose and 0.8% (w/v) agar, formed friable organogenic calli (7-8 mm size) after 8 wk under incubation in normal light period supplemented with 200 mol m S of day light fluorescent illumination. The calli were transferred to MS medium supplemented with thidiazuron (TDZ) (1-7 M) and naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) (0.2-0.4 M) for regeneration. The calli developed shoot buds after 3-4 wk, and the frequencies of calli-forming shoots varied from 5% to 44%. Optimum shoot regeneration occurred on MS medium supplemented with 5 M TDZ and 0.4 M NAA. On this medium, 44% cultures responded with an average number of 12 shoots per callus. Whole plants were recovered following rooting of shoots in 1/2 MS medium supplemented with 3 M indole 3-butyric acid.
4293746| Tennessee coneflower [Echinacea tennesseensis (Beadle) Small] was regenerated from flower stalks, leaf sections from flowering plants, and hypocotyls and cotyledons from seedlings. Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) supplemented with naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) at 0.54 M and thidiazuron (TDZ) at 22.7 M yielded the most shoots per leaf explant. NAA and 6-benzylaminopurine concentrations for optimal shoot regeneration from leaf, flower stalk, cotyledon and hypocotyl explants in MS media were 0.54 and 24.6 M, respectively. All explant types generated shoots; however, those derived from leaves and flower stalks produced the highest number of shoots per explant and highest percentage of explants with shoots. Explants cultured on media containing high levels of NAA (5.4-27 M) formed calluses but no adventitious shoot. Leaf explants responded to a wider range of NAA concentrations than the other explant types but shoots generated from flower stalks grew the fastest. While all cytokinins tested increased the number of shoots per explant, the number of shoots in media containing TDZ was increased by nearly threefold. Regenerated shoots from all explant types cultured on MS medium supplemented with 0.25 M indole-3-butyric acid initiated roots within 4 wk; NAA was not effective for root induction. All vernalized plantlets developed into plants that were morphologically identical to the source material. 
4293631|Shoots by direct and indirect organogenesis and somatic embryos were induced from tubercles excised from Ariocarpus kotschoubeyanus seeds germinated in vitro. Shoot formation was greatest (6.3 per explant) when explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine (BA;
23321156|Lolium temulentum L. (Darnel ryegrass) is a self-fertile and diploid grass species with a relatively short life cycle. We propose to use L. temulentum as a model system for genetic manipulation studies in forage and turf grasses, since most of the important grasses are outcrossing, require vernalization to flower, and in some cases are polyploid. As the first step to develop an efficient regeneration and transformation system, we performed a large-scale genotype screening for tissue culture responses using 46 L. temulentum accessions. Embryogenic callus formation frequency ranged from <1% to 11% across all accessions tested. Embryogenic calluses of a few responsive accessions were used to establish cell suspension cultures. The regeneration frequency of green plantlets from the established cell suspension ranged from 15% to 39%. After transferring the regenerants to the greenhouse, fertile plants were readily obtained without any vernalization treatment. This efficient plant regeneration system is being used for genetic transformation studies. With the development of genomics approaches for the improvement of forage and turf grasses, L. temulentum could serve as a model system for testing gene functions.
42568881|Suboptimal environmental conditions inside closed culture vessels can be detrimental to in vitro growth and survival of plantlets during the acclimatization process. In this study, the environmental factors that affected Doritaenopsis plantlet growth and the relationship between growth and sugar metabolism were investigated. Cultures were maintained under heterotrophic, photoautotrophic, or photomixotrophic conditions under different light intensities and CO concentrations. Photoautotrophic growth of Doritaenopsis hybrid plantlets could be promoted significantly by increasing the light intensity and CO concentration in the culture vessel. The concentration of different sugars in the leaves of in vitro-grown plantlets varied with different cultural treatments through a 10-wk culture period. Starch, reducing sugars, and nonreducing sugar contents were higher in plantlets grown under photoautotrophic and photomixotrophic conditions than in heterotrophically grown plantlets. Net photosynthesis rates were also higher in photoautotrophically and photomixotrophically grown plantlets. These results support the hypothesis that pyruvate, produced by the decarboxylation of malate, is required for optimal photoautotrophy under high photosynthetic photon flux density. Growth was greatest in plantlets grown under CO-enriched photoautotrophic and photomixotrophic conditions with high photosynthetic photon flux density. The physiological status of in vitro-grown Crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM)-type Doritaenopsis showed a transition from C3 to CAM prior to acclimatization.
4293698|Various plant secondary products have been implicated in the promotion of good health or the prevention of disease in humans, but little is known about the way they are absorbed in the gut, or in which tissues they are deposited throughout the body. While these issues could be studied if the phytochemicals were isotopically labeled, generating labeled molecules often is problematic because many compounds of interest can be synthesized only in planta at present. In order to generate
20064983|An efficient and reproducible in vitro culture system has been developed for regeneration of multiple shoot clumps from intact seedlings of both lowland and upland cultivars of switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.). The multiple shoots were induced on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with various combinations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 1-phenyl-3-(1,2,3-thiadiazol-5YL)-urea (thidiazuron or TDZ). Maximum response was obtained with 4.5 M 2,4-D and 18.2 M TDZ. These shoots proliferated and rooted efficiently on MS medium without growth regulators. The developmental pattern of the multiple shoots indicated their origin from the enlarged shoot apex via proliferation of axillary buds and subsequent reprogramming of shoot meristems followed by secondary differentiation of adventitious shoots. The simplicity of the protocol and direct production of multiple shoots make this a potential system that is highly attractive and amenable for microprojectile-mediated gene transfer.
4293489| Sugarcane (Saccharum spp. hybrid cv. CP 84-1198) embryogenic calluses were induced from young leaves cultured on modified Murashige and Skoog basal medium supplemented with 13.6 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Five concentrations, 0.5, 1.0, 2.5, 5.0, and 10.0 M, of five different growth regulators, 6-benzylaminopurine, kinetin, 6-,-(dimethylallylamino)purine, zeatin, and thidiazuron, were tested with or without 22.5 M -naphthaleneacetic acid to compare their ability to induce regeneration from embryogenic callus. After 4 wk on medium, the percentage of shoot meristem induction was evaluated, and after 10 wk the total number of shoots produced, as well as the percentage of shoots greater than 1 cm in length, was obtained. Although it had the lowest percentage of elongated shoots, medium containing thidiazuron alone performed better than all other growth regulators tested, with the highest percentage of shoot induction and the largest number of shoots, particularly at a concentration of 2.5 M. 
20064853|Somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration of banana and plantain cultivars (Musa spp.) were obtained by culturing young male flowers. Multiplication and maintenance of embryogenic cultures were achieved by culturing somatic embryos in a temporary immersion system (SIT). A multiplication rate of 40 allowed us to obtain more than 6000 somatic embryos after 6 mo. of subculture. Plant recovery frequencies were 60 to 70%. This method was expanded to different banana and plantain genomic groups.
20064816|Embryogenic callus was induced from explanted pinnae of newly emerged leaves of mature plants of Ceratozamia mexicana var. Robusta (Gymnospermae, Cycadales) on a modified B5 formulation with
20461703|Highly efficient Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of trifoliate orange (Poncirus trifoliata (L.) Raf.) was achieved via indirect shoot organogenesis. Stable transformants were obtained from epicotyl segments infected with Agrobacterium strain EHA 105 harboring the binary vector pBI121, which contained the neomycin phosphotransferase gene (NPTII) as a selectable marker and the -glucuronidase (GUS) gene as a reporter. The effects of regeneration and selection conditions on the transformation efficiency of P. trifoliata (L.) Raf. have been investigated. A 7-d cocultivation on a medium with 8.86 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA)+1.43 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) was used to improve callus formation from epicotyl segments after transformation. A two-step selection strategy was developed to select kanamycin-resistant calluses and to improve rooting of transgenic shoots. Transgenic shoots were multiplied on shoot induction medium with 1.11 M BA+5.71 M IAA. Using the optimized transformation procedure, transformation efficiency and rooting frequency reached 417% and 96%, respectively. Furthermore, the number of regenerated escape shoots was dramatically reduced. Stable integration of the transgenes into the genome of transgenic citrus plants was confirmed by GUS histochemical assay, PCR, and Southern blot analysis.
20064805|The possibilities for in vitro regeneration of cocoa plants have been limited. Somatic embryos can differentiate from cotyledonary cells, but their conversion into plants has remained largely unsolved. In the present study, we attempted micrografting of somatic embryos to seedling rootstocks. Different conditions were analyzed for the rootstocks and embryos, and it was found that complete plant regeneration eeeded about 10 mo. The best results were obtained using a simple culture medium, 3-wk-old rootstocks, and somatic embryos without cotyledons. Histologic events associated with the graft union were also analyzed. Cells, mainly from the rootstock, initiate cellular division in different patterns, producing a callus at the graft junction. Within this region some cells differentiated into zylem and phloem, establishing vascular connection in the graft. Afterward, micrografted plants start to grow and differentiate new leaves and roots allowing for transfer to soil.
4293269|Parasitic flowering plants from 23 genera in 7 families (Convolvulaceae, Lauraceae, Loranthaceae, Orobanchaceae, Santalaceae, Scrophulariaceae and Viscaceae) have been cultured in vitro. These plants include both hemiparasites and holoparasites that parasitize stems and roots of angiosperms and gymnosperms. This review highlights relevant information on each genus with regard to its biology, distribution, host range, and tissue culture procedures. Tissue culture has been used to study aspects of the development, metabolism, reproduction, physiology and nutritional requirements of these plants under controlled conditions. Studies of host-parasite relationships, including potential roles of signals/receptors that influence host development and physiology, and factors influencing seed germination and haustorium formation, have been conducted. The effects of chemicals and herbicides on the physiology and biochemistry of parasite embryo and seedling development have been studied, as well as the influence of inhibitors or stimulants on seed germination. Tissue culture has provided a method for propagation and genetic improvement of plants with commercial value.
4293030|An efficient and reproducible protocol has been developed for in vitro shoot regeneration from cotyledonary explants derived by germinating immature ovules of Impatiens platypetala Lindl. 'TR6-27-2'. Cotyledonary explants were cultured on a modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) agar-solidified medium containing
4293612|Some native species produce seeds with a low frequency of germination accompanied with a period of dormancy. These features make it difficult to produce new phenotypes through sexual propagation. Maclura tinctoria has been considered an endangered species due to extensive use of its wood and low frequency of seed germination. The objective of the present study is to establish an in vitro propagation system for this species. Organogenic friable callus formation from nodal segments has been obtained using woody plant medium (WPM) supplemented with
4293054| Rose (Rosa hybrida L.) plants were micropropagated by axillary shoot proliferation method. Maximum number of microshoots per shoot tip expiant were obtained on MS medium supplemented with 5 to 10 M thidiazuron (TDZ). The microshoots formed rooted plants on MS hormone-free medium. No difference in the rooting of microshoots produced on medium containing TDZ or
4293324|Variants from seed-propagated Lisianthus [Eustoma grandiflorum (Raf.) Shinn] were shoot-tip cultured to observe the effects of cytokinins, auxins and activated charcoal on organogenesis and anatomical characteristics.
4292972|Ovule perforation technique and media components (plant growth regulators and L-glutamine) were tested on in vitro growth of immature (<3 mm) embryos of "Springerest" and "Earligrande" peaches. Ovule perforation was 2 to 4 times more effective in promoting embryo growth than leaving ovules intact. L-Glutamine
4293081|Micropropagated Spathiphyllum "Petite" plantlets were acclimatized at low- or high-light intensities [photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD)
4293776|An in vitro protocol for Ficus carica cv. 'Roxo de Valinhos' was optimized. Nodal explants containing two buds were excised from field-grown mature plants, and transferred to different proliferation media consisting of combinations of distinct concentrations of activated charcoal with benzyladenine (BA), kinetin with gibberellic acid (GA
42568813|Here, we describe a new protocol for the induction of direct somatic embryogenesis of Agave fourcroydes through thin cell layer (TCL) culture technology. The protocol was optimized for the main factors known to affect the process, including the type of explant (stem or leaf tissue), type and concentration of exogenous growth regulators (-naphthalene acetic acid [NAA], 2,4-diclorophenoxyacetic acid [2,4-D], 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinecarboxylic acid [picloram], and 3,6-dichloro-2-methoxybenzoic acid [dicamba]), and the influence of plant genotype. Thin tissue segments cut transversally (tTCLs) from stems of in vitro-cultured plants gave the best embryogenic response when cultured with 2.26 M dicamba (92.22 embryos/explant) or 2.07 M picloram (81.72 embryos/explant). It was interesting to observe that the embryogenic capacity of these tissues was affected by the presence of 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) in the culture medium in which the explant donor plantlets were maintained. Thirteen clonal lines (each derived from a different parental plant), compared for their embryogenic competence under the same culture conditions, produced very different embryogenic responses that varied from very high (117 embryos/explant) to null. The histological analysis revealed that the amount of meristematic tissue present in the tTCLs varied according to the region of the stem (apical, middle, or basal) from which they originated. The cells of the vascular procambium became competent and developed into cell lines that formed embryos, either by a unicellular or a multicellular pathway. Mature embryos germinated in half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium without growth regulators and 85% of regenerated plants was successfully acclimatized in a greenhouse.
20461710|With the objective to develop a practical method of screening potato for drought tolerance, shoot and root growth in plantlets raised in vitro (from nodal cuttings drawn from in vivo as well as in vitro grown plantlets) were studied in three genotypes with known root mass production under field conditions. Different levels of water stress were induced using five concentrations of agar in MS (Murashige and Skoog in Physiol Plant 15:473-497, 1962) medium. Water potential of various media ranged from -0.70 MPa to -0.98 MPa. Water stress in culture adversely affected plantlet growth, and the responses varied with genotype and explant source. Genotype IWA-1 was less affected than Konafubuki and Norin-1. In the experiment with explants from in vivo grown plants, the time to rooting was considerably delayed in Konafubuki and Norin-1 by an increase in agar concentration, but no such effect was observed in IWA-1. In all media, the mean number of roots and root length was greater in IWA-1 than Konafubuki and Norin-1, and the latter two genotypes were at par. At 10 g l agar, IWA-1 had taller plantlets, heavier foliage dry weight, root volume, as well as root dry weight than Konafubuki and Norin-1, whereas the latter two genotypes were at par for all these characteristics. This pattern was similar to the reported pattern of these genotypes for root dry weight under field conditions. However, such similarity in the in vitro and field behavior of the tested genotypes was not observed when nodal cuttings drawn from in vitro plantlets were used as explants. It is concluded that in vitro screening of potato under specific and limited water stress conditions by raising plantlets from nodal cuttings drawn from in vivo grown plants may provide a system for effectively differentiating the genotypes for their expected root mass production under field conditions.
23016742|Numerous crops have been bred or engineered to increase carotenoid levels in an effort to develop novel strategies that address vitamin A deficiency in the developing world. The pioneering work in rice (not covered in this review) has been followed up in many additional crops, some of which are staples like rice whereas others are luxury products whose impact on food security is likely to be marginal. This review surveys the progress that has been made in carotenoid breeding and metabolic engineering, focusing on -carotene enhancement in crops other than rice. We ask if these efforts have the potential to address vitamin A deficiency in developing countries by comparing bioavailable pro-vitamin A levels in wild type and enhanced crops to determine whether nutritional requirements can be met without the consumption of unrealistic amounts of food. The potential impact of carotenoid enhancement should therefore be judged against benchmarks that include the importance of particular crops in terms of global food security, the amount of bioavailable -carotene, and the amount of food that must be consumed to achieve the reference daily intake of vitamin A.
4293151|The anatomy and morphology of bud regeneration were investigated in melon (Cucumis melo L.) cv. Galia, which regenerates in vitro only by direct organogenesis from the cotyledon explant. Explants were cut from the cotyledon proximal to the apex from 3-d-old in vitro seedlings. After 3 d on Murashige and Skoog medium with
41496513|Magnetic fields affect biological systems. However, this is the first study on the effects of permanent magnetic fields (MFs) on the micropropagation of two ornamental plants, Spathiphyllum cv. i.e 'Merry' and Cymbidium Music Hour 'Maria'. Cymbidium and Spathiphyllum shoots cultured in the ' Miracle Pack'  culture system were exposed to MFs of different intensities, polarities, and duration of exposure. The results show that by increasing intensity from 5 x 10v Tesla (T) as the geo-magnetic field to 0.1, 0.15, and 0.2 T negatively influenced height and fresh mass of roots of Cymbidium plants (except for 0.1 T-S and 0.2 T-N treatments), but had no significant effect on other plantlet parameters. Long-term exposure (1, 2, or 3 mo) of Cymbidium shoots to 0.15 T-MFs negatively influenced plant height, positively affected the number of leaves (with the exception of 0.15 T-SI mo), and had no clear effect on other parameters compared to the control. MFs (0.1, 0.15, and 0.2 T), regardless of their polarity, increased chlorophyll content (SPAD value) and the number of leaves, but slightly decreased the dry mass of Spathiphyllum shoots. Different exposure duration to 0.15 T (i.e., 2, 4, or 8 wk) had no significant influence on Spathiphyllum plantlet development other than increasing the SPAD value. These two ornamentals could serve as model systems to study plant development, space production, yield maximization, and the development of new morphotypes essential for the floricultural market.
4293277|Soybean is a recalcitrant species for in vitro manipulation. Chinese scientists developed two in planta non-tissue culture soybean transformation procedures: (1) via the "pollen-tube-pathway" to introduce exogenous genomic total DNA of Glycine gracilis, the seed of which consisted of 50% protein, and (2) "ovarian injection" with exogenous plasmid DNA containing atrazine-resistant gene. A high yield and high seed protein (45.44%) cultivar, 'Heisheng 101', resulted from the first method, and atrazine-resistant F
4293858|Shoot regeneration in hairy root cultures of Solarium khasianum Clarke influences root growth, solasodine production, and permeabilization of solasodine into the medium. These parameters are dependent on exogenously supplied auxin and cytokinin; the effect being both concentration- and clone-dependent. Hairy root cultures with no shoot regeneration showed high permeabilization of solasodine into the medium by the sixth week of incubation, suggesting the medium acts as a sink for the solasodine synthesized by the roots. Solasodine in the culture medium was toxic to the transformed roots and caused browning of root tips. In a separate set of experiments, the hairy root cultures showed regeneration of approximately 50-70 mm long shoots after treatment with indole-3-acetic acid and kinetin. These hairy root cultures had increased levels of solasodine production, compared to cultures without shoot regeneration. The plantlets formed in the hairy root cultures accumulated some of the solasodine, thereby reducing its permeabilization into the medium. Transport of solasodine from root to shoot reduced the toxic effect of solasodine in the root zone and extended the exponential growth phase by 8-10 d.
4293616| Eucalyptus nitens Maiden (shining gum) is a frost-tolerant species of Eucalyptus that can be used as an alternative species to Eucalyptus globulus in some regions of Portugal where winter temperatures are too low. Seedlings and 1-yr-old shoot tips and nodes were used for micropropagation of E. nitens. The best multiplication rate (2.25) was obtained when seedling shoots (< 15 mm) were cultured on a medium containing the major nutrients (at half-strength) and minor elements of Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium, the organics of De Fossard medium (De Fossard et al., 1974) and a combination of benzyladenine (0.9 M) and 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (0.05 M). Seedling cuttings (4-, 8-, and 10-wk-old) rooted well on media containing several concentrations of 3-indolebutyric acid (4.9, 9.8, and 14.8 M) or 3-indoleacetic acid (5.7, 11.4, and 17.1 M), giving frequencies of root induction above 80%. With this type of explant, root formation was also found on basal medium without growth regulators. Rooting of in vitro-propagated shoots obtained from seedlings (8-wk-old) after four subcultures (every 3 wk) was more difficult, with the best results obtained on a medium containing 14.7 M 3-indolebutyric acid (60.0% root induction). No root formation was achieved when shoots from 1-yr-old explants were used. After a period of 4 mo., 96.3% of the plants transferred to the greenhouse survived acclimatization. 
4293480|Somatic embryogenesis (SE) initiation in Pinus strobus was optimized by the manipulation of plant growth regulator (PGR) concentrations in the culture medium. Modified Litvay medium (MLV) of Litvay et al. (1985) supplemented with lower than routinely used PGR concentration increased initiation of established embryogenic cultures from approximately 20 to 53%. The original developmental stage of zygotic embryos had a pronounced effect on the SE response. The optimum stage was the pre- to shortly post-cleavage stage. A substantial genetic influence on initiation of SE was indicated by a significant variance component due to families. Genotype x collection date and genotype x media interactions had large effects on initiation of SE. The PGR levels in the culture medium prior to maturation had a significant effect on subsequent production of mature somatic embryos. Embryogenic tissue initiated and proliferated on medium with a low level of PGR consistently produced a high number of somatic embryos, indicating that optimized initiation protocol also enhanced somatic embryo production. Somatic embryos of 93 embryogenic lines (representing five families) that were initiated on media with different PGR concentrations were converted to plants at an overall frequency of 76%, and grown in the greenhouse. With these improved protocols, application of P. strobus SE in commercial clonal forestry is feasible as an alternative to traditional breeding and reforestation.
20064920|We successfully micropropagated Hesperaloe parviflora from mature plants. Shoot cultures were directly initiated from mature plants using pedicel bud explants on a modified Murashige and Skoog medium containing Nitsch and Nitsch vitamins and 1 M zeatin riboside. Axillary shoot multiplication from established cultures was most responsive to changing concentrations of N-benzyladenine (BA) with the greatest production on 6 M BA. Growing shoots on a medium supplemented with 6 M BA for 6 wk and then transferring cultures to a 1 M BA medium for 6 more wk increased the number of transferable shoots, but not significantly. However, our data predicts that the maximum number of transferable shoots produced from a single microshoot would occur on media with 5.4 M zeatin riboside. Shoots rooted easily in vitro or ex vitro and rooted shoots were easily acclimatized. The methods described in this paper are being used to commercially micropropagate H. parviflora.
20064993|Germplasm collections of vegetatively propagated crops are usually maintained as plants in fields or potted in greenhouses or screened enclosures. Safety duplication of these collections, as duplicate plants or separate collections, is costly and requires large amounts of space. Cryopreservation techniques which were recently developed for long-term storage of pear germplasm may offer an efficient alternative to conventional germplasm collection maintenance. Pear (Pyrus L.) germplasm may now be stored as seeds (species), dormant buds or pollen from field-grown trees, or shoot tips from in vitro-grown plants (cultivars). Pear germplasm may now be cryopreserved and stored for long periods (&gt 100 yr) utilizing slow-freezing or vitrification of in vitro-grown shoot-tips. Dormant bud freezing, pollen, and seed cryopreservation of other lines are being developed to complete the base collection for Pyrus. This cryopreserved collection provides base (long-term) storage for the field-grown pear germplasm collection at the National Clonal Germplasm Repository, Corvallis, Oregon.
20064933|Basal media, plant growth regulator type and concentration, sucrose, and light were examined for their effects on duck-weed (Lemna gibba) frond proliferation, callus induction and growth, and frond regeneration. Murashinge and Skoog medium proved best for callus induction and growth, while Schenk and Hildebrandt medium proved best for frond proliferation. The ability of auxin to induce callus was associated with the relative strength of the four auxins tested, with 20 or 50 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid giving the highest frequency (10%) of fronds producing cellus. Auxin combinations did not improve callus induction frequency. Auxin in combination with other plant growth regulators was needed for long-term callus growth; the two superior plant growth regulator combinations were 10 M naphthaleneacetic acid, 10 M gibberellic acid, and 2 M benzyladenine with either 1 or 20 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Three percent sucrose was best for callus induction and growth. Callus induction and growth required light. Callus that proliferated from each frond's meristematic zone contained a mixture of dedifferentiated and somewhat organized cell masses. Continual callus selection was required to produce mostly dedifferentiated, slow-growing callus cell lines. Frond regeneration occurred on Schenk and Hildebrandt medium without plant growth regulators but was promoted by 1 M benzyladenine. Callus maintained its ability to regenerate fronds for at least 10 mo. Regenerated fronds showed a slower growth rate than normal fronds and a low percentage of abnormal morphologies that reverted to normal after one or two subcultures.
42568814|Tetrastigma hemsleyanum suspension cells were treated with four metal salts to screen suitable elicitors for the promotion of plant cell biomass and flavonoid production. The effects of calcium ions (Ca) on induction were also studied. It was found that the most effective elicitors were 50 M of the heavy metal ion copper (Cu) and 100 M of the rare earth element cerium (Ce). The maximal biomass levels under respective treatments over a 16-d culture period increased by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, and the total flavonoid content was 1.8- and 1.6-fold greater than the control, respectively. Reducing the exogenous Ca concentration or adding Ca antagonists (1 mM ethylene glycolbis(2-aminoethylether)-N,N,N',N-tetraacetc acid (EGTA) or 1 mM verapamil) strengthened inductive effects of metal elicitors and enhanced flavonoid production. However, 0.5 M of the calcium ionophore A23187 showed contrary results. The increase in exogenous Ca concentration in the presence of A23187 suppressed HO bursts and peroxidase activity caused by metal elicitors. The results suggest that Ca plays an inhibitory role in the plant cell response to metal elicitors. This suppression could have been caused by Ca preventing the cells from absorbing metal ions and then easing the induction, or because the decrease of Ca concentration worked as an induction signal. Therefore, reducing the Ca concentration in culture medium, or adding Ca antagonists could be used to improve flavonoid production and cell growth in combination with induction by metal elicitors during in vitro culture of T. hemsleyanum suspension cells.
25623037|Regeneration of new shoots in plant tissue culture is often associated with appearance of abnormally shaped leaves. We used the adventitious shoot regeneration response induced by decapitation (removal of all preformed shoot apical meristems, leaving a single cotyledon) of greenhouse-grown cotyledon-stage seedlings to test the hypothesis that such abnormal leaf formation is a normal regeneration progression following wounding and is not conditioned by tissue culture. To understand why shoot regeneration starts with defective organogenesis, the regeneration response was characterized by morphology and scanning electron and light microscopy in decapitated cotyledon-stage Cucurbita pepo seedlings. Several leaf primordia were observed to regenerate prior to differentiation of a de novo shoot apical meristem from dividing cells on the wound surface. Early regenerating primordia have a greatly distorted structure with dramatically altered dorsoventrality. Aberrant leaf morphogenesis in C. pepo gradually disappears as leaves eventually originate from a de novo adventitious shoot apical meristem, recovering normal phyllotaxis. Similarly, following comparable decapitation of seedlings from a number of families (Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Convolvulaceae, Cucurbitaceae, Cruciferae, Fabaceae, Malvaceae, Papaveraceae, and Solanaceae) of several dicotyledonous clades (Ranunculales, Caryophyllales, Asterids, and Rosids), stems are regenerated bearing abnormal leaves; the normal leaf shape is gradually recovered. Some of the transient leaf developmental defects observed are similar to responses to mutations in leaf shape or shoot apical meristem function. Many species temporarily express this leaf development pathway, which is manifest in exceptional circumstances such as during recovery from excision of all preformed shoot meristems of a seedling.
4293271|This review paper describes the importance of synchronous cell cultures as experimental systems for investigations of mechanisms of the cell cycle of higher plants, and various methods of synchronization are discussed. The efficient synchronization methods were double phosphate starvation in Catharanthus roseus cells and aphidicolin treatment in tobacco cells. Using these systems, cell cycle-dependent genes were isolated and characterized. One of them, cyc07, was investigated in detail and the possible function of cyc07 is discussed as an example of genes involved in the progression of the cell cycle of higher plants. Finally, a perspective of investigations of the cell cycle of higher plant cells is discussed.
4293116|Progressive loss of organogenic totipotency appears to be a common event in long-term plant tissue culture. This loss of totipotency, which has been proposed to be a typical trait of plant neoplastic progression, is compared to some mechanisms that occur during the establishment of animal differentiation-resistant cancer lines in vitro. Evidence is presented that alteration in DNA methylation patterns and expression of genes occur during long-term callus culture. An effect of the auxin, 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, in the progressive methylation, is moreover suggested. Methylation of genes relevant to cell differentiation and progressive elimination of cells capable of differentiation is proposed as being responsible for this progressive loss of organogenic potential. Finally, the epigenetic alteration (DNA methylation) that occurs during prolonged periods of culture may induce other irreversible genetic alterations that ultimately make the loss of totipotency irreversible.
29736168|This study reports the characterization of 11 plants regenerated from electrically fused protoplasts between Populus alba and Alnus firma. Growth characteristics of five regenerated plants (AP-1-AP-5) in terms of shoot height and leaf color showed small differences compared with those of P. alba grown in pots, and showed no difference in shoot height and diameter compared with those grown in nursery field. There was also no difference in the RAPD pattern between the plants regenerated from interfamilial protoplast fusion and P. alba. In contrast, the lately regenerated plants (AP-6-AP-11) grown in pots showed a marked difference in leaf morphology and RAPD pattern. There was a variation in the ratio of longitudinal to transverse length of leaves among the 11 plants from interfamilial fusions compared with that of protoclones and intraspecific fused protoplasts of P. alba.
4293137|Adventive organogenesis and somatic embryogenesis were induced from leaf explants taken from in vitro or in vivo plants of Codiaeum variegatum cv. "
4293542| Transgenic plants of three Picea species were produced after coculture of embryogenic tissue with the disarmed strain of Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58/pMP90/pBIV10 and selection on medium containing kanamycin. In addition to the nptII selectable gene (conferring resistance to kanamycin), the vector carried the uidA (-glucuronidase) marker gene. Transformation frequencies were dependent on the species, genotype, and post-cocultivation procedure. Of the three species tested, P. mariana was transformed at the highest frequency, followed by P. glauca and P. abies. The transgenic state of the embryogenic tissue was initially confirmed by histochemical -glucuronidase (GUS) assay followed by Southern hybridization. One to over five copies of T-DNA were detected in various transgenic lines analyzed. Transgenic plants were regenerated for all species using modified protocols for maturation and germination of somatic embryos. 
40981336|A system for genetic transformation and subsequent plant regeneration via indirect organognesis from callus was developed for Aloe vera. Young seedlings served as primary expiants. Callus cultures were established on Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium supplemented with 3 mg l benzylaminopurine and 2 mg l indole acetic acid. A protocol was developed to switch from the differentiated stage, using in vitro shoots or young regenerated plants, back to the dedifferentiated stage of the callus and vice versa. Long-term maintenance of this callus paved the way for genetic manipulation of Aloe vera. Calluses were bombarded with a plasmid containing uidA and hpt genes, both under the control of the 35S promoter. Dithiothreitol and gibberellic acid were found to play a major role in reducing tissue necrosis following bombardment. Transformed shoots were regenerated under stepwise selection in hygromycincontaining liquid medium supplemented with different antioxidants. Amberlite XAD-4 resin was embedded into alginate beads and added to the selection medium. Amberlite was best for adsorbing different phenolic compounds and blocking expiant necrosis. Shoot initiation occurred after transfer of the transformed cells to Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 2.0 mg  thidiazuron and 0.1 mg l indole butyric acid. Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 1 mg l zeatin riboside promoted shoot elongation. Rooting and plant development were obtained on Murashige and Skoog basal medium supplemented with 15 mg l hygromycin lacking growth regulators. The transgenic nature of the regenerated plants was verified by histochemical GUS assay and Southern blot hybridization.
20541044|Embryogenic suspensor mass (ESM) was established from immature seeds of Fraser fir. The initiation frequency of ESM was dependent on genotype, collection time, medium, and plant growth regulators (PGR) used. The ESM initiation potential was higher with seeds collected in late June (clone 16-273, 4.7%) or early July (clone 16-45, 2.2%) and decreased as the zygotic embryos matured. Excised proembryo stage of zygotic embryos was most appropriate to initiation of ESM. Most of the ESM arose from the seeds that were at the proembryo stage. From the four different culture media we compared, seven ESM lines were obtained: two lines from Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 4.4 M benzyladenine (BA), one from Schenk and Hildebrandt (SH) medium with 4.5 M thidiazuron (TDZ), and four from SH with 4.4 M 6-benzyladenine. However, only one ESM line from clone 16-273 (June 24, SH+TDZ) could be proliferated in subsequent culture. Different concentrations of L-glutamine and casein hydrolysate (CH) in the medium were also compared for their effect on ESM proliferation. The highest proliferation rate (1.16-fold) was obtained from SH medium supplemented with 250 mg/L CH and 3.42 mM L-glutamine. In contrast, the lowest rate was noted when 1,000 mg/L CH plus 3.42 mM L-glutamine (0.17-fold) was added to the medium. As for somatic embryo maturation, the highest number of mature precotyledonary (100.1/g FW ESM) or cotyledonary (64.3/g FW ESM) somatic embryos was obtained on a medium containing 20 or 80 M abscisic acid, 10% polyethyleneglycol, 4% maltose, and 0.3% gellan gum. For germination of the somatic embryos, the cotyledonary somatic embryos derived from maturation medium were transferred on half-strength Litvay medium containing 0.3% gellan gum. The somatic plantlets were recovered from the germination medium and transferred to soils.
4293621|With the aim to determine a possible relationship between somatic embryogenesis and some metabolic contents in embryogenic and non-embryogenic calluses of sugarcane (Saccharum sp. var CP-5243), the present study was carried out. Embryogenic callus has more soluble proteins, free proline, proteolytic activity, soluble sugars, and invertase, and lower putrescine/(spermidine + spermine) than non-embryogenic tissue. Non-embryogenic callus has a higher peroxidase and gallic acid level, lower dry matter/fresh matter ratio, and more gross fat compared with embryogenic callus.
40663787|Xylanases are used in various agricultural and industrial applications. A synthetic, modified, codonoptimized xylanase gene (XynZ) from Clostridium thermocellum was expressed in transgenic tobacco plants. The coding sequence of XynZ was placed between the modified Mirabilis mosaic virus full-length transcript promoter with duplicated enhancer domains and the terminator sequence from the rbcSE9 gene. Three constructs were developed to evaluate XynZ expression levels by targeting gene products into the cytosol, intercellular space, or endoplasmic reticulum in transgenic plants. These chimeric genes, expressed in transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum cv. Samsun NN) were stably inherited in successive plant generations (R0, R1, and R2 progeny; primary, second, and third generation) as shown by molecular characterization (RT-PCR and qRT-PCR) and enzymatic assays. A Western blot analysis of plant extracts showed presence of a polypeptide of the expected size that cross-reacted with xylanase-specific antibodies. Transgenic plants were morphologically similar to wild-type plants and showed no deleterious effect due to transgene expression. The expressed xylanase was heat-stable, having optimum activity between 55C and 75C over a pH range of 5 to 5.6.
20461749|Callus cultures derived from leaf segments of chrysanthemum cultivar 'Snow Ball' which was susceptible to Septoria obesa were successfully used for in vitro selection for resistance to this pathogenic fungus. Resistant cell lines were selected by culturing callus on growth medium containing various concentrations of S. obesa filtrate. Resistant calluses obtained after two cycles (30 d each cycle) of selection were used for plant regeneration. About 30% of the plants regenerated from the resistant calluses and 70-80% of the plants raised from cuttings had acquired considerable resistance against the pathogen in the field. No phenotypic variation was observed in the selected regenerates.
4293937|Plant regeneration systems from mesophyll- and cell suspension-derived protoplasts were established in Dianthus acicularis (2n = 90), a species with resistance to Burkholderia caryophylli (Pseudomonas caryophylli). Protoplasts were isolated from both leaves of in vitro-grown plants and cell suspension cultures established from the calluses originated from leaves of in vitro-grown plants. Protoplasts isolated from both sources showed about the same response to the type and concentration of cytokinins, and gave the highest frequencies of cell division and colony formation in 0.1% (w/v) Gelrite[REGISTERED TRADE MARK SIGN]-solidified Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 0.5 M glucose,
20065017|The progress in the development of the technologies of plant tissue and cell culture over the past four decades has been remarkable. This article covers my personal reflections on the various topics and is based on my involvement in the field during that period. There are three fundamental technologies which constitute most of what is referred to as plant in vitro technologies or tissue culture. The origin and some of the key persons involved in the development of each of these procedures will be discussed. The technology that is most common is growing plant tissue on gel-solidified nutrient media. That technology is being used in the most vital procedures, namely the regeneration of plants from cultured cells. The culture of plant cells in liquid suspension was developed very shortly after that, and has become a very effective technology for plant regeneration by somatic embryogenesis. The method of meristem culture arose out of a need for developing plants that were virus-free. In many species the technique is now being used to produce virus-free crop plants. Another important technology is the culture of anthers and microspores for producing haploid and homozygous plants. Included with plant tissue culture is the development of the plant protoplast and cell fusion technologies for the production of new plant hybrids. The final aspect of the development concerns the integration of tissue culture with molecular genetics, which has developed into the rapidly expanding field of biotechnology.
23326885|An efficient protocol was developed for Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) cultivars using cotyledon explants. The transformation frequency was assessed in response to several different factors, including seed germination medium, seedling age, pre-culture duration, pre-culture and cocultivation media, inoculation medium, medium pH, washing medium, and kanamycin concentration in initial selection medium. Cotyledons excised from 6-d-old seedlings germinated on half-strength Murashige and Skoog's (MS) basal medium containing 8.9 M benzyladenine (BA) produced the most suitable explant material. Six days of explant pre-culture and 5 min inoculation with Agrobacterium culture in MS medium, containing 8.9 M BA, 9.3 M kinetin, and 0.4 mg l -1 thiamine at pH 5.0, significantly improved the transformation frequency. The addition of a tobacco feeder cell layer, however, did not lead to any significant improvement in the transformation rate. Kanamycin at 20 mg l -1 in the selection medium for the initial 10 d resulted in the highest transformation frequency. Combining the best conditions for each parameter resulted in an overall transformation efficiency of 44.3 %. Gene transfer was confirmed through PCR and Southern blot analyses. Mendelian inheritance ratios were found in 71.5 % of the independent transgenic lines from self-fertilized T 1 progeny. The optimized transformation procedure showed high transformation frequencies for all three tomato cultivars tested, namely, Kashi Vishesh (H-86), Hisar Anmol (H-24), and Kashi Amrit (DVRT-1), and is also expected to give reproducible results with other tomato cultivars.
20064922|This is a short review of the classical and new, natural and synthetic plant hormones and growth regulators (phytohormones) and highlights some of their uses in plant tissue culture. Plant hormones rarely act alone, and for most processes--at least those that are observed at the organ level--many of these regulators have interacted in order to produce the final effect. The following substances are discussed: (a) Classical plant hormones (auxins, cytokinins, gibberellins, abscisic acid, ethylene) and growth regulatory substances with similar biological effects. New, naturally occurring substances in these categories are still being discovered. At the same time, novel structurally related compounds are constantly being synthesized. There are also many new but chemically unrelated compounds with similar hormone-like activity being produced. A better knowledge of the uptake, transport, metabolism, and mode of action of phytohormones and the appearance of chemicals that inhibit synthesis, transport, and action of the native plant hormones has increased our knowledge of the role of these hormones in growth and development. (b) More recently discovered natural growth substances that have phytohormonal-like regulatory roles (polyamines, oligosaccharins, salicylates, jasmonates, sterols, brassinosteroids, dehydrodiconiferyl alcohol glucosides, turgorins, systemin, unrelated natural stimulators and inhibitors), as well as myoinositol. Many of these growth active substances have not yet been examined in relation to growth and organized development in vitro.
4293342|Salvia valentina Vahl and Salvia blancoana Webb & Heldr subsp. mariolensis Figuerola, two endemic species of Salvia from the Mediterranean coastal region of Spain, were successfully regenerated in vitro from adult plants using two Explant types (apical and nodal segments). Maximum shoot proliferation for both species was obtained with nodal Explants: for S. blancoana on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with
20065003|An efficient clonal propagation procedure for a Brazilian indica rice subspecies was developed with shoot apex explants. Shoot apices were excised from 4-d-old seedlings and cultured on MS medium supplemented with 8.9 M 6-benzyladenine. The efficiency of shoot production was influenced by growth regulators and light treatments to the donor plant. Explants derived from seedlings grown in the presence of 10.7 M naphthaleneacetic acid and in the absence of light showed significantly increased regeneration capacity as compared to control explants. Anatomical analysis of the new shoot meristems revealed that they originated from preexisting apical and axillary meristem as well as from the mesocotyl parenchyma.
41496443|Callus cultures from zygotic embryos of neem (Azadirachta indica) were initiated and analyzed for azadirachtin production. Medium components were screened and optimized using the statistical techniques of Plackett-Burman and response surface methodology. The Plackett-Burman design, with five medium components (Murashige and Skoog major salts, sucrose, casein hydrolysate, indole-3-acetic acid, and N-benzylaminopurine), was performed to screen the variables that significantly affected azadirachtin production. The three variablesMurashige and Skoog major salts, sucrose, and N-benzylaminopurinesignificantly affected azadirachtin production and were significant factors for optimization using response surface methodology. The experimental results were fitted to a second-order polynomial model with a correlation coefficient (R) of 0.9582. The optimal concentrations of variables for maximum azadirachtin production were full-strength Murashige and Skoog major salts, 5.68% sucrose, and 10.42 M N-benzylaminopurine. The maximum azadirachtin production by the predicted model was 5.13 mg/g dry weight, which was in agreement with the actual experimental value of 4.97 mg/g dry weight.
25623031|The influence of the nutrient composition of plant tissue culture media on axillary shoot proliferation and their preconditioning effect on subsequent adventitious shoot regeneration from pear leaves was investigated. The goal was to improve both micropropagation and regeneration of 'Bartlett' and 'Beurre Bosc' pear cultivars. DriverKuniyuki walnut (DKW) and Quoirin and Lepoivre (QL) nutrient media were found to be superior to Murashige and Skoog (MS) and Woody Plant Medium (WPM) for axillary shoot proliferation. Shoots on WPM exhibited some chlorosis. Axillary shoot culture on DKW would be preferred to that on QL due to the production of excessively short thin shoots on the latter medium. DKW also was superior to QL and MS for production of young expanding leaves for use as explants in adventitious regeneration. Leaf explants derived from shoot proliferation cultures grown on DKW or QL media produced more adventitious shoots than leaf explants from MS.
4293609| Tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.) is the most important forage species worldwide of the Festuca genus. Single genotype-derived embryogenic suspension cultures were established from tall fescue cultivar Kentucky-31, and were used as target cells for biolistic transformation. A chimeric hygromycin phosphotransferase gene (hph) was used as the selectable marker, and a chimeric -glucuronidase (gusA) gene was co-transformed with hph. Transgenic plants were recovered after microprojectile bombardment of suspension cells and subsequent selection in the presence of a high concentration of hygromycin. Fertile transgenic plants were obtained after vernalization under field conditions. T1 and T2 progenies were obtained after reciprocal crosses between transgenic and untransformed control plants. PCR and Southern hybridization analyses revealed a 1:1 segregation ratio for both transgenes in the T1 and T2 generations. Southern hybridization patterns were identical for T0, T1, and T2 plants. The results demonstrated for the first time the stable meiotic transmission of transgenes following Mendelian rules in transgenic tall fescue. 
23321154|A protocol for high-frequency callus, somatic embryogenesis, and plant regeneration for Tripsacum is described. Plants were regenerated from complete shoot meristems (34 mm) via organogenesis and embryogenesis. In organogenesis, the shoot meristems were cultured directly on a high cytokinin medium comprising 510 mg l-1 (22.244.4 M) 6-benzyladenine (BA). The number of multiple shoots varied from six to eight from each meristem. The time required for production of plants from organogenesis was rapid (46 wk). In contrast, callus was induced on an auxin medium and continuously cultured on an auxin medium for production of somatic embryos. Prolific callus with numerous somatic embryos developed within 34 wk when cultured on an auxin medium containing 5 mg l-1 (22.6 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). The number of shoots induced varied from two to five per callus. Regardless of the cultivars used, the frequency of callus induction and plant regeneration was between 48% and 94%. The seed germination procedures also were modified and resulted in a maximum of 6080% seed germination. Finally, the rate of T-DNA transfer to complete shoot meristems of Tripsacum was high on the auxin medium and was independent of whether super-virulent strains of Agrobacterium were used or not.
4293156|The expression of transgenes in plants can be inhibited by transcriptional or posttranscriptional silencing mechanisms. There is increasing evidence that transcriptional silencing involves changes at the chromatin level, which has raised an interest in the role of chromatin organization in plant gene expression in general. This article attempts to assemble the current evidence for changes at the chromatin level being used as a mechanism for regulating transcription of transgenes and endogenous genes. It discusses the role of epigenetic chromatin states and their control by molecular features, such as the position of a sequence in the genome, its composition and repetitiveness, and by environmental and developmental signals. It is proposed that transgenes and endogenous genes can undergo changes in their epigenetic states reflecting regulatory mechanisms that control plant development and the perception of environmental conditions. Understanding the regulation of epigenetic states will be essential to control stable expression of transgenes, a prime prerequisite for the exploitation of gene technology in modern agriculture.
20461705|Helicteres isora is a medicinal plant effective against asthma, diabetes, hypolipidemia, HIV, polio besides a good source of diosgenin. Seed dormancy and low natural fruit production rate make this plant a perfect candidate for developing an in vitro regeneration method. However, to date, no such work has been procured in this plant. An efficient method for plant regeneration via shoot organogenesis from callus cultures has been developed using nodal explants in H. isora. Murashige and Skoog (MS) media counting 2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D, 2.26 to 13.57 M), Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA, 2.85 to 17.13 M), Indole-3-butyric acid (IBA, 2.46 to 14.70 M), 6-Benzylaminopurine (BA, 2.22 to 13.32 M) and Kinetin (Kin, 2.32 to 13.92 M) either singly or in the following combinations (IAA + BA; IAA + Kin, and BA + Kin) produced granular callus except BA + Kin which resulted in compact, hard, greenish-white (CHGW) callus. The optimum CHGW callus (2.62 g fresh weight/ explant) was produced on MS media with 13.32 M BA + 2.32 M Kin with over 93% callus induction frequency. Optimum shoot organogenesis (67% frequency) was achieved in CHGW callus with lower level of BA (2.22 M) and Kin (2.32 M) and produced 3.2 shoots/0.5 g callus within 35 d of culture. Microshoots were rooted successfully (62% frequency) after 35 d of culture on 1/2MS containing 4.90 M IBA and hardened off. Antioxidant enzymes such as catalase, peroxidase, polyphenol oxidase, and biochemical parameters viz. hydrogen peroxide, reducing and nonreducing sugars, starch, proteins, phenols, and proline contents were studied in regenerating and nonregenerating CHGW calluses to establish a correlation between these parameters and shoot morphogenesis. All the enzyme activities and biochemical parameters were found more in regenerating callus than in nonregenerating except phenols.
4293619|A micropropagation protocol was developed using cacao somatic embryo-derived plants as a source for nodal and apical stem explants, and apical microcuttings. Microcuttings were efficiently rooted and developed into plantlets. Axillary meristems within the remaining decapitated plantlets subsequently developed and were used for production of additional microcuttings, with an average 2.4 growing shoots per decapitated stem. The remaining plantlets were maintained as microcutting stock plants. When nodal stem explants were cultured on thidiazuron medium, axillary buds proliferated and developed into shoots, which were excised and rooted. However, the efficiency of this method is lower than rooting of apical microcuttings harvested directly from stock plants. During root induction, short treatment with indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) increased the total percentage of rooted microcuttings up to 89%. Longer exposures to IBA increased the average number of roots per microcutting (from 1.7 to 5.2). Plant acclimatization after rooting was achieved with an average success of 87%. During several months of growth in the greenhouse, the micropropagated plants developed functional taproots. Currently, cocoa plants produced by this micropropagation method have been successfully acclimated to field conditions in Ivory Coast, Ghana, and Saint Lucia.
4293880| A modified encapsulation-dehydration cryopreservation protocol based on the replacement of cold acclimation with high-sucrose pretreatment was assessed for the long-term storage of Ribes germplasm. Four steps in the procedure were examined for eight genotypes: (1) pregrowth of shoot tips in sucrose-supplemented solid growth medium for 1 wk; (2) pretreatment of alginate-encapsulated shoot tips in sucrose-supplemented liquid culture medium for 21 h; (3) evaporative desiccation of encapsulated-dehydrated shoot tips; and (4) exposure to liquid nitrogen (LN). Differential responses were observed for black currant and gooseberry genotypes. Recovery of growing shoots was high (72-100%) at all four steps for the five black currants tested. Evaporative desiccation slightly decreased viability for some black currants and in some cases LN exposure reduced regrowth. In contrast, three gooseberry species had poor recovery from the initial sucrose culture step (32-67%), indicating sensitivity to osmotic stress, which predisposed these genotypes to poor survival after LN exposure (12-26%). The effectiveness of the modified protocol for conserving a wider range of Ribes genotypes was further ascertained by screening 22 genotypes derived from nine Ribes species. The procedure was successful for 18 of the 22 genotypes in the gene bank in Scotland. Screening genotype responses at the time of storage demonstrated regrowth 60% for 15 genotypes, and only four genotypes had regrowth of 0-28%. Additional genotypes were also added to the USDA cryopreserved Ribes collection. 
20461682|A cultivar of dessert banana, namely, Nanjanagudu Rasabale (NR), classified under group "silk" (of genotype AAB), is seriously under the threat of extinction due to its susceptibility to bacterial wilt and bunchy-top virus disease. A regeneration protocol using tissue culture method was developed (Venkatachalam et al. 2006), where a large number of plantlets were regenerated from leaf base explants. Simultaneously, a micropropagation protocol was also developed where high levels of up to 53.28 M of benzylamino purine (BAP) and 55.80 M of kinetin (Kn) were used. The progressive increase of cytokinins levels resulted in concomitant increase in shoot number, with a maximum of 80 shoot buds per segment in BAP (31.08 M). The plantlets were analyzed for their genetic stability using randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and inter simple sequence repeats (ISSR) markers. A total of 50 RAPD and 12 ISSR primers resulted in 625 distinct and reproducible bands showing homogeneous RAPD and ISSR patterns. Band intensity histogram of each gel confirmed their monomorphic nature with no genetic variation among the plantlets analyzed. The present study has established for the first time that the regeneration and rapid micropropagation protocol developed through the present study will be of great use in conserving the endangered cultivar-NR-without risk of genetic instability.
4293520|Salt-soluble polypeptide and a few isozymes were profiled to identify banana cultivars available in Andamans, India. Salt-soluble polypeptide profile was found to be inappropriate in cultivar identification. However, isozymes such as peroxidase could differentiate 'Jungli kela', Tissue Cultured Dwarf Cavendish' (TCDC), 'Lal kela', 'Rajbel', and 'Baratang wild', while esterase identified all the cultivars except 'Rajbel' and 'Tarkari kela'. The latter two cultivars could be identified with the use of malate dehydrogenase (MDH) and peroxidase profiles. MDH portrayed cultivar-specific distinct banding pattern in 'Khatta Champa', 'Tarkari kela', and 'Baratang wild'. 'China kela' could be identified easily by Superoxide dismutase (SOD). Amongst four isozymes, esterase was found to be most efficient in identifying eight cultivars amongst 10; hence this isozyme may be used often as a marker for cultivar identification of banana.
4293013| Somatic embryos could be induced from the cotyledons of zygotic embryos from immature fruits of Feijoa sellowiana Berg (Feijoa) in the presence of a wide range of concentrations of fructose, glucose, maltose, and sucrose. Mannitol or sorbitol alone were ineffective. The highest frequencies of induction (99%) and the greatest number of somatic embryos per expiant (134) were obtained with 0.4 M fructose and 0.3 M sucrose, respectively. This sucrose concentration also showed greater induction capacity than equimolar combinations of its monosaccharide constituents combined. Somatic embryo development was arrested at the globular stage at concentrations higher than 0.5 M of all the sugars tested. When transferred to solid germination medium containing 2.0 mg/liter (5.77 M) gibberellic acid, 0.5 mg/liter (2.32 M) kinetin, and 0.029 M sucrose, somatic embryos formed under 0.3 or 0.4 M sucrose had better germination capacity than those induced under lower (0.1 and 0.2 M) concentrations, as assessed by the frequency of explants presenting germinated embryos and by the number of plants obtained from those explants. On liquid media of similar composition somatic embryos did not germinate. Our data suggest that high (0.3 to 0.4 M) carbohydrate levels improve somatic embryogenesis by acting both as carbon source and as osmotic regulator. 
4293227|Potato plantlets (Solanum tuberosum L. cv. Benimaru) were cultured under photoautotrophic (without any sucrose in the nutrient medium and with enriched CO
25623021|Purpose-grown trees will be part of the bioenergy solution in the United States, especially in the Southeast where plantation forestry is prevalent and economically important. Trees provide a "living biomass inventory" with existing end-use markets and associated infrastructure, unlike other biomass species such as perennial grasses. The economic feasibility of utilizing tree biomass is improved by increasing productivity through alternative silvicultural systems, improved breeding and biotechnology. Traditional breeding and selection, as well as the introduction of genes for improved growth and stress tolerance, have enabled high growth rates and improved site adaptability in trees grown for industrial applications. An example is the biotechnology-aided improvement of a highly productive tropical Eucalyptus hybrid, Eucalyptus grandis  Eucalyptus urophylla. This tree has acquired freeze tolerance by the introduction of a plant transcription factor that up-regulates the cold-response pathways and makes possible commercial plantings in the Southeastern United States. Transgenic trees with reduced lignin, modified lignin, or increased cellulose and hemicellulose will improve the efficiency of feedstock conversion into biofuels. Reduced lignin trees have been shown to improve efficiency in the pre-treatment step utilized in fermentation systems for biofuels production from lignocellulosics. For systems in which thermochemical or gasification approaches are utilized, increased density will be an important trait, while increased lignin might be a desired trait for direct firing or co-firing of wood for energy. Trees developed through biotechnology, like all transgenic plants, need to go through the regulatory process, which involves biosafety and risk assessment analyses prior to commercialization.
20461659|The factors affecting the induction and development of somatic embryos and plantlet acclimatization of peach palm (Bactris gasipaes Kunth) were evaluated to establish an efficient regenerative protocol based on somatic embryogenesis. Mature zygotic embryos were cultured in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 0-40 M of picloram (4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid) and 0 or 5 M of 2-isopentyladenine (6-dimethylaminopurine) (2-iP). After 5 mo. in culture embryogenic callus arose from primary calli. Picloram (10 M) was effective in inducing embryogenic calli in 9.8% of the explants. The use of 1 M of AgNO enhanced embryogenic competence. Embryogenic calli showed an organized structure, a globular aspect, and were white to yellowish in color. Histological analyses showed that cell proliferation arose from subepidermal cells adjacent to vascular bundles, resulting in primary callus formed by a meristematic zone from which somatic embryos arose. Protein profile analyses revealed two high molecular mass bands in these embryogenic calli, but not in other tissues. Embryogenic calli were transferred to a culture medium containing 40 M of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 10 M of 2-iP, plus 1 g l of glutamine, hydrolyzed 0.5 g l casein, and activated 1.5 g l of charcoal. Morphogenetic responses achieved in this medium were the development of somatic embryos, rooting, and loss of embryogenic capacity. Somatic embryos were converted to plantlets on MS medium plus 24.6 M of 2-iP and 0.44 M of naphthalene acetic acid. Plantlets were maintained in MS medium with activated charcoal (1.5 g l) until they were 6 cm tall, and then acclimatized. After 16 wk, 84.26.4% survival was observed.
29736180|The presence of resistant selectable marker genes and other added DNAs such as the vector backbone sequence in transgenic plant might be an unpredictable hazard to the ecosystem as well as to human health, which have affected the safe assessment of transgenic plants seriously. Using minimal gene expression cassette (containing the promoter, coding region, and terminator) without vector backbone sequence for particle bombardment is the new trend of plant genetic transformation. In the present paper, we co-transformed the selectable marker bar gene cassette and non-selected cecropinB gene cassette into rice (Oryza sativa L.) by particle bombardment, then eliminated the selectable marker bar gene in R generation applying the hereditary segregation strategy and attained two safe transgenic plants only harboring cecropinB gene cassettes without any superfluous DNA. This is the fist report indicating that the combination of minimal gene cassettes transformation with the co-transformation and segregation strategy can generate selectable marker-free transgenic plants, which will promote the advancement in plant genetic engineering greatly.
24596345|The Poaceae includes some of the most important food, fiber, and bio-fuel crops. While there have been many studies investigating the function of phenylpropanoids in this family, most of our understanding is based on correlative data rather than experimental evidence. The current study was conducted to evaluate the roles of phenylpropanoids in the growth and development of Zea mays and to develop an experimental model for further investigations. Z. mays seedlings were grown in vitro with various concentrations of the competitive phenylalanine ammonia lyase inhibitor, 2-aminoindane-2-phosphonic acid (AIP). Ferulic acid, a downstream biosynthetic product, was added to determine if it could rescue the induced phenotypes. At lower concentrations of AIP, plants exhibited elongated roots and shoots, but at higher concentrations, growth was extremely stunted. At the cellular level, the epidermal cells of roots cultured with AIP exhibited a loss of intercellular adhesion and organization, and their cell walls were more readily degraded by enzymatic digestion. These characteristics were accompanied by significant reductions in primary cell wall autofluorescence, indicating that less ferulic acid and other phenolics were incorporated in the cell wall. The majority of these symptoms could be partially or entirely rescued by ferulic acid, providing further evidence that these differences were due to the inhibition of phenylpropanoid biosynthesis. This study provides experimental evidence supporting and expanding upon hypothesized functions of phenylpropanoids in the growth and development of Z. mays and provides an experimental system for further investigations in the Poaceae and other taxonomic groups.
4293401|Mineral deficiency symptoms were observed in leaves of yellow passionfruit plantlets grown in MS medium (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) with
4293455|The influence of PPM[TRADE MARK SIGN] on somatic embryogenesis in melon, adventitious shoot organogenesis in petunia, and androgenesis in tobacco was studied by culturing explants in regeneration media supplemented with 0, 2, 5 or
42568812|In order to establish a highly efficient and sustainable regeneration system, we systematically researched the key factors affecting direct shoot regeneration from Jatropha curcas leaves that were collected from Hainan (HN1-1), Lijiang (LJ3-1), and Yuxi (YX2-12) provinces in China. The L(3) orthogonal test of thidiazuron (TDZ), kinetin (Kn), and gibberellic acid (GA) were studied, and the explant type, growth age, and cultivar of leaves were subsequently investigated. Simultaneously, the combinations of plant growth regulators (PGRs) promoting shoot bud proliferation, elongation, and root establishment were examined. The results showed that the best medium for shoot bud induction was Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 1.0 mg/L TDZ, 0.5 mg/L Kn, and 0.5 mg/L GA. TDZ was the key PGR, while Kn and GA played an important role in shoot bud elongation and the number of shoots per leaf disk, respectively. The induced shoot buds proliferated and readily elongated in MS medium with 0.3 mg/L 6-benzylaminopurine and 0.01 mg/L indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and established roots in half-strength MS medium supplemented with 2.0 mg/L IBA. Using the previously described methods, the third to fifth leaves were found to be the best expiant source for shoot bud induction, with a high induction rate, large shoot numbers per disk, excellent proliferation, and consistent rooting. With the use of this regeneration system, the shoot bud induction rate increased from the reported rate of 53.5% to more than 90% using different expiants and cultivars, and the shoot number per leaf disk (shoot length>0.5 cm) increased from 1.6 to 3.5. Thus, this optimized regeneration system will effectively promote the propagation and genetic transformation of J. curcas.
4293775|Multiple shoots were induced from cotyledonary nodes of grasspea (Lathyrus sativus L.) derived from 7-d-old in vitro seedlings on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing
4292939|We describe a tissue culture procedure for somatic embryogenesis and plantlet regeneration in cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L. cv. Coker 312). Callused explants or individual globular embryos were transferred to basal media to induce somatic embryogenesis. To determine characteristic early indicators of successful germination and conversion, we identified six types of embryos that developed on basal media. Two of the six embryo types, designated as tulip-shaped and trumpet-shaped, could undergo conversion in preliminary tests, whereas the others had little or no developmental potential. Several media treatments designed to enhance the maturation of globular somatic embryos failed to increase the fraction of embryos which matured to form recoverable types. In efforts to improve plantlet recovery, tulip-shaped embryos were used in limited trials to contrast the effects of chemical and physical desiccation treatments on germination and conversion. The selective use of tulip-shaped somatic embryos, coupled with partial desiccation, seems to have augmented plant recovery. Growth habit, flowering, seed set, and lint production of most of the regenerated plants were comparable to seed-derived plants grown under the same conditions.
4293230|Somatic embryogenesis from mature zygotic embryos of
23016593|Climate change, alien species, and use of land for intensive farming and development are causing severe threat to the plant genetic diversity worldwide. Hence, conservation of biodiversity is considered fundamental and also provides the livelihoods to millions of people worldwide. Medicinal plants play a key role in the treatment of a number of diseases, and they are only the source of medicine for majority of people in the developing world. The tropical regions of the world supply the bulk of current global demand for "natural medicine," albeit with increasing threat to populations in the world and its genetic diversity. India is a major center of origin and diversity of crop and medicinal plants. India poses out 20,000 species of higher plants, one third of it being endemic and 500 species are categorized to have medicinal value. The Western Ghats is one of the major repositories of medicinal plants. It harbors around 4,000 species of higher plants of which 450 species are threatened. Currently, the number of species added to the red list category in this region is increasing, and the valuable genetic resources are being lost at a rapid rate. Demand for medicinal plants is increasing, and this leads to unscrupulous collection from the wild and adulteration of supplies. Providing high-quality planting material for sustainable use and thereby saving the genetic diversity of plants in the wild is important. During the last 25 years of intensive research, Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute has developed in vitro protocol for rapid regeneration and establishment of about 40 medicinally important rare and threatened plants of Western Ghats. In situ conservation alone would not be effective in safeguarding these important species. Thus, utilizing the biotechnoligical approach to complement ex situ conservation program is becoming vital. Propagating biotechnology tools in plant conservation program is a prerequisite to succeed in sustainable use and to complement the existing ex situ measures. In addition to propagation, storage of these valuable genetic resources is equally important. In vitro slow growth of 35 species and cryopreservation using embryo/meristem/seed in 20 different species of rare medicinal plants of this region is accomplished. Plants developed in vitro of ten medicinal plants, which have restricted distribution, were reintroduced in the natural habitat as well.
4293145| The photosynthetic cell suspension culture of soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr. cv. Corsoy] (SB-M) was successfully cryopreserved in liquid nitrogen using a preculture and controlled freezing to -40 C (two-step) freezing method. The effective method included a preculture treatment with gradually increasing levels of sorbitol added to the 3% sucrose already present in the medium. The cells were then placed in a cryoprotectant solution [10% DMSO (dimethylsulfoxide) and 9.1% sorbitol, or 10% DMSO and 8% sucrose], incubated for 30 min at 0 C, cooled at a rate of 1 C/min to -40 C, held at -40 C for 1 h, and then immersed directly into liquid nitrogen. The cells were thawed at 40 C and then immediately placed in liquid culture medium. The cell viabilities immediately after thawing were 75% or higher in all cases where cell growth resumed. The original growth rate and chlorophyll level of the cells was recovered within 40 to 47 d. If the sorbitol level was not high enough or the preculture period too short, growing cultures could not be recovered. Likewise, survival was not attained with cryoprotectant mixtures consisting of 15% DMSO, 15% glycerol, and 9.1% sucrose or 15% glycerol and 8% sucrose. The successful method was reproducible, thus allowing long-term storage of this and certain other unique photosynthetic suspension cultures in liquid nitrogen. 
20541002|To speed up the molecular analysis of cassava transgenic plants, we developed real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based methods that could be implemented as a tool in the primary scrutiny of putative transgenic plants. We tested for the presence of transgenes, estimated copy number, and quantified messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of genes introduced through Agrobacterium. Copy numbers for the genes -glucuronidase and hygromycin phosphortransferase were estimated in 15 transgenic lines. Most lines contained one or two copies of each gene; in some, the copy number was different for the two genes, suggesting rearrangements of the transferred DNA. Six of the 15 lines were analyzed by Southern blot. The copy number so estimated was concordant in most cases. Although real-time PCR was efficient for classifying transgenic lines with one or more transgenes inserted, for conclusive analysis of gene copy number, i.e., in a potential breeding line, the Southern blot may still be required. The transcript levels from both genes were determined in eight lines. High, medium, and low levels of mRNA expression were detected. No direct relationship between copy number and expression level of transgenes was obvious, suggesting that factors like position effects or DNA rearrangements led to differential expression. Quantitative mRNA expression data for the -glucuronidase gene agreed with results from histochemical staining. With real-time PCR we could detect high levels of transgene expression in 3-y-old cassava plants maintained and propagated as clones in the green-house. This is the first time that real-time PCR is reported to be used for transgene analysis in cassava.
4293016|Ploidy levels of 26 Zea mays L. anther culture-derived callus lines of the F1 hybrids (H99 x Pa91, Pa91 x FR16, and H99 x FR16) were determined at various times after culture initiation using flow cytometry (for 21 lines) or chromosome counting of callus cells or regenerated plants (for the remaining 5 lines). Twenty of the lines remained haploid, whereas 6 were diploid. The results from flow cytometry, after examining the DNA content of 5000 nuclei of each callus line, show that each callus line consisted of homogenous haploid or diploid cells. Thus for diploid callus lines, spontaneous chromosome doubling must have occurred before or in the early stages of androgenesis, before the initiation of callus cultures. These long-term callus cultures (growing for up to 38 mo.) have stably maintained their ploidy levels so it is unlikely that the culture conditions have caused chromosome doubling. The restriction fragment length polymorphism pattern obtained with 52 to 58 markers for each diploid callus line shows that all the diploid lines are homozygous diploid so each originated from a microspore and not from diploid maternal F1 hybrid tissue.
20171638| The effects of increasing concentrations of NaCl and CaCl on quince (Cydonia oblonga Mill. BA 29 clone) somatic embryogenesis and adventitious root regeneration were investigated. Leaves collected from in vitro-grown shoots were used as explants and induced for 2 d in liquid Murashige and Skoog medium containing 11.3 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Explants were then cultured on semisolid Murashige and Skoog medium enriched with 4.7 M kinetin and 0.5 M naphthaleneacetic acid under red light for 25 d and under white light for another 25 d. Two experiments were performed: in the first, NaCl was used at 0, 25, 50, 100, and 200 mM in factorial combination with CaCl at 3, 9, and 27 mM; in the second, NaCl was applied at 0, 5, 10, 20, 40, and 80 mM in combination with CaCl at 0.3, 1.0, and 3.0 mM. Quince leaves revealed the capacity to regenerate somatic embryos and/or adventitious roots. Quantitative and qualitative regeneration from leaves was affected by NaCl treatments: increasing NaCl concentrations, in combination with CaCl at 1 mM, led to an increase in the proportion of leaves producing somatic embryos only, and to a decrease of both leaves regenerating roots only and leaves simultaneously producing somatic embryos and adventitious roots. This suggests a beneficial effect of salt stress on the embryogenic process. The regeneration response decreased with increasing salt concentrations and was almost totally inhibited above 50 mM NaCl and 9 mM CaCl. The presence of CaCl in the culture medium apparently mitigated the effects of salt stress, but only when NaCl was applied at 40 mM. NaCl at 5 mM, in the presence of 0.3 or 1 mM CaCl, was favorable both to somatic embryo and root production. No value of the ratio Na/Ca was found to be optimal for the regeneration processes. 
4293942|We have developed optimum culture conditions for the large-scale propagation of chrysanthemum in balloon-type bioreactors to achieve vigorous growth and quality. The effects of
20461748|The dhlA gene of Xanthobacter autotrophicus encodes dehalogenase that hydrolyzes dihaloalkanes such as 1,2-dichloroethane (DCE) into cytotoxic halogenated alcohol and an inorganic halide. As plants do not contain dehalogenase activity, they grow normally in the presence of DCE. We tested the transgenic expression of the bacterial dhlA gene in rice as a conditional negative selection marker. We developed 24 transgenic callus lines containing dhlA gene driven by rice actin-1 promoter, verified the expression of dhlA by Northern blot analysis, and subjected these transgenic lines to DCE treatment. We found that, while untransformed callus (Nipponbare) was unaffected by the DCE treatment, most of the transformed lines displayed symptoms of toxicity, indicating that dhlA is an effective conditional negative selection marker gene for rice in vitro cultures.
29736185|Three cassava clones (SOM-1, "05", and "50" were cultured in vitro on MS medium plus sucrose (30 g L) and myo-inositol (100 mg L) without plant growth regulators and with additions of 0 (control), 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, and 3 g L NaCl to test their salt tolerance. The same cassava clones were cultivated in greenhouse conditions on a sandy soil substratum and irrigated with 20% strength Hoagland solution, and additions of 0, 4, and 8 g L of NaCl. Salinity negatively affected the survival, development, leaf water content, and mineral composition (mainly by accumulation of Cl and Na) of both in vitro and ex vitro plants, but with different intensity in each clone. In both conditions of culture (in vitro and ex vitro) clone SOM-1, from a desert arid saline zone of Somalia, was the most tolerant and clone "05", from a rainy region of Ivory Coast, the most sensitive. Clone "50" tolerance to in vitro salt treatments, although lower, was not significantly different from that of SOM-1 but the ex vitro response was similar to "05". In general, there was a correlation between in vitro and ex vitro behavior of the cassava plant regarding salt tolerance, which would allow the in vitro culture method to be used for selection of salt-tolerant plants of this crop.
4293173|The paper is the second of two papers about statistical considerations that researchers should make while doing in vitro plant biology research. The first paper focused on aspects from developing a plan to do research through the collection of data. This paper continues with information about editing data, handling outliers, analyzing quantitative and qualitative data, comparing treatment means, preparing graphs and tables, and presenting results.
4293441|As a first step towards applying biotechnology to blue grama, Bouteloua gracilis (H.B.K.) Lag. ex Steud., we have developed a regenerable tissue culture system for this grass. Shoot apices were isolated from 3-d-old seedlings and cultured in 15 different growth regulator formulations combining 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), Picloram (4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid),
4293853| Camptothecin, produced by Camptotheca acuminata, is a pharmaceutically important compound. Transgenic technology has potential uses for the enhancement of camptothecin production; however, an efficient plant regeneration protocol for C. acuminata is not currently available. Factors that affected successful seedling germination were evaluated. The regeneration potential of various parts of seedlings was tested. Camptothecin production in regenerated plants was compared to its production in calluses and the original seedlings. Dark incubation and seed coat removal led to a higher germination rate and a higher survival rate after germination. The best shoot induction medium was found to be Gamborg's B5 medium + 8.9 M benzyladenine. Among the calluses induced from various parts of seedlings, leaf petiole calluses, leaf disc calluses, and cotyledon calluses regenerated shoots, but internode calluses did not. Furthermore, leaf petiole calluses and leaf disc calluses regenerated normal shoots, while cotyledon calluses regenerated hyperhydric shoots. Moreover, leaf petiole calluses had a higher shoot regeneration rate, 50% versus 9%, and a higher shoot number, 6.2  0.5 versus 2.0  0.3, than did leaf disc calluses on the best shoot induction medium. It took 4-6 wk to regenerate shoots after transfer into shoot induction media. Camptothecin concentration in the regenerated plants was significantly higher than that in the calluses and similar to that in the original seedlings. In conclusion, leaf petioles provide efficient plant regeneration of C. acuminata. 
4293019|Embryogenic cell cultures of Picea mariana (black spruce) and the species complex Picea glauca-engelmannii (interior spruce) were maintained either as suspensions in liquid medium in 250 or 500-ml-capacity shake-flasks, 7-liter-capacity airlift or mechanically stirred bioreactors, or on agar-solidified medium. Cultures from each of the maintenance conditions were subsequently transferred to agar-solidified LP medium containing
4293928|In vitro regeneration of plants from root culture of Melia azedarach seedlings was obtained. The origin and mode of development of the regenerated shoot buds were studied by means of histological analysis and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Maximum shoot bud regeneration was achieved when root segments were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium at quarter strength with 3% sucrose and
29736159|A protocol for the induction of somatic embryogenesis from immature zygotic embryos of Rosa bourboniana, a scented rose species, was established. Somatic embryos were induced after 8 wk of inoculation of zygotic embryos on MS medium supplemented with different concentrations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (5-15 M). In addition to 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid concentrations, somatic embryogenesis was also influenced by the month of collection of the explant and the stage of maturity of the hip. Maximum embryogenic response (16.6%) was observed using 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (15 M), from green hips in the month of September. The use of L-proline (800 mgl) was found to be optimum for secondary embryogenesis. On periodic subculturing, the cultures formed somatic embryos sustainably over a period of 18 mo. For somatic embryo germination, 6-benzylaminopurine (5 M) was found to be most suitable. Rooted plants ware transferred successfully to soil and appear morphologically normal under greenhouse conditions. Transfer of hardening was most suitable during the active growth period between June and September.
20461628|A viable protocol has been developed for direct and indirect shoot regeneration of Vernonia cinerea. To establish a stable and high-frequency plant regeneration system, leaf and stem explants were tested with different combinations of -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), and benzylaminopurine (BA). Lateral buds on nodal explants grew into shoots within 2 wk of culture in Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with 20.9 M BA. Excision and culture of nodal segments from in vitro-raised shoots on fresh medium with the same concentration of BA facilitated development of more than 15 shoots per node. Similarly leaf, nodal, and internodal explants were cultured on MS basal medium supplemented with different concentrations of BA, NAA, and IAA either alone or in combinations for callus induction and organogenesis. Shoot buds and/or roots were regenerated on callus. Shoot buds formed multiple shoots within 4 wk after incubation in induction medium. Adventitious buds and shoots proliferated when callus was cut into pieces and subcultured on MS basal medium containing 20.9 M BA and 5.3 M NAA. This combination proved to be the best medium for enhanced adventitious shoot bud multiplication, generating a maximum of 50 shoots in 4 wk. This medium was also used successfully for shoot proliferation in liquid medium. Root formation was observed from callus induced in medium containing 8.05-13.4 M NAA. Regenerated shoots exhibited flowering and root formation in MS basal medium without any growth regulators. Plantlets established in the field showed 85% survival and exhibited identical morphological characteristics as the donor plant.
24596336|Factors affecting microspore embryogenesis of Ethiopian mustard (Brassica carinata A. Braun) were evaluated, including flower bud length, pollen developmental stage, and microspore density. An embryogenic frequency of 300 embryos per Petri plate was observed with NLN (Nitsch-Lichter-Nitsch) medium supplemented with 13% sucrose, 3.03.4-mm-long buds, and a plating density of 65,000 microspores/ml. About 65% of the microspores from buds 3.03.4-mm long were at the late uninucleate stage. Microspore-derived embryos were successfully transferred to solid medium for germination. After 4 wk, the resulting plantlets were transplanted to a soilless potting mixture and grew well under greenhouse conditions.
4293018|A method for rapid production of somatic embryos having normal developmental morphology, from the nucellar tissue of three monoembryonic Indian mango varieties, namely, Alphonso, Mundan and Baneshan was developed. Somatic embryogenesis could be induced using Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) 5.0 mg/liter (
23016751|An efficient in vitro propagation protocol, applicable both to young and mature explants of two Thymus spp., results in genetically stable plantlets. In vitro-grown shoot tips of Thymus vulgaris L. were exposed to cytokinins (6-benzyladenine, kinetin, and thidiazuron) alone or in combination with auxins, gibberellic acid (GA 3 ) and/or silver nitrate in order to optimize in vitro shoot proliferation. Optimum shoot proliferation (97% regeneration rate, with 8.6 shoots produced per explant) was obtained when semi-solid Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium was supplemented with 1 mg L -1 kinetin and 0.3 mg L -1 GA 3 . Rooting of the shoots was easily obtained on semi-solid MS medium that was either hormone-free or supplemented with auxins. However, the best root apparatus (92.5% rooting rate, with 19 adventitious roots per shoot) developed on MS medium supplemented with 0.05 mg L -1 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Genetic stability was confirmed in the in vitro-germinated mother plant as well as the shoots that underwent two, four, six, eight, or ten cycles of in vitro subculturing by random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis. When applied to the micropropagation of mature shoot tips of T. longicaulis C. Presl subsp. longicaulis var. subisophyllus (Borbs) Jalas, the optimized in vitro propagation protocol resulted in a 97.5% shoot regeneration rate, with five shoots formed per explant, and 100% rooting. Rooted plantlets of both species were transferred to 250-mL plastic pots and successfully acclimatized by gradually reducing the relative humidity.
4293321|A micropropagation protocol for Artocarpus altilis (breadfruit, yellow cultivar) using shoot tip explants taken from mature trees is outlined. Cultures were initiated from shoot tip explants (1-2 mm in length) on either N5K or N15K (Margara, 1978) macronutrient formulation, MS (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) micronutrients and vitamins and 6-benzyladenine (BA,
20540990|To date, plantlet culture has not been explored as a means to obtain secondary metabolites in vitro. However, plantlets readily produce desirable secondary metabolites, which may not be produced in cell suspension or callus cultures. To optimize plantlet growth in vitro, the influences of various physical environments on the growth (fresh weight), morphogenesis (leaf, root, and shoot number), and volatile carbon metabolites (i.e. monoterpene, (-)-carvone) of Mentha spicata L. (spearmint) plants were studied. The carvone content in different portions of sterile plantlets was analyzed. Carvone was only produced from the foliar regions of cultured plantlets and was absent in the callus and roots. The influence of physical support (e.g., agar, glass gravel, liquid, platform or sponge), frequency of media replacement, and culture vessel capacity on spearmint plantlets growth and carvone production was tested. A comparative study was conducted testing the growth, morphogenesis, and secondary metabolism occurring with three different spearmint cultivars grown in either culture tubes containing 25 ml agar medium or in an automated plant culture system (APCS; a sterile hydroponics system) employing a 1-1 medium reservoir. Increasing the number of media immersions (4, 8, 12 or 16 immersions d) of plantlets growing in the APCS increased growth and morphogenesis responses. Generally, higher culture growth rates resulted in lower carvone treatment (mg carvone g-FW); however, overall total carvone ((mg carvone g-FW)g culture FW) increased because of the production of greater biomass obtained per vessel.
4293378|Regeneration of adventitious shoots was obtained in over 80% of explants, consisting of wounded cotyledonary nodes of Acacia mangium, by culturing germinated seedlings on DKW medium with combinations of
40663762|Cell suspension cultures of Cyperus aromaticus were established from the yellow friable callus derived from the root expiants of in vitro plantlets. Four callus cell lines were selected based on their growth index from two populations of callus cultures originated from the mother plants grown in two different locations. The selected four cell lines (Zl, Z6, P4, P9) showed uniform cell growth but produced different amounts of juvenile hormone III (JHIII).The Zl cell line possessed fast-growing characteristics, produced a high JHIII content, and was chosen as the elite cell line for an optimization study of C. aromaticus cell suspension cultures. An inoculum cell mass of 0.3 g from 12-d cultures in 30 ml culture medium was found to be the optimum inoculum size and culture age for establishing the cell suspension culture of C. aromaticus. MS basal medium supplemented with 4.5 mg/1 2,4-D and 5.5 mg/1 NAA was found to be the best medium for production of maximum cell biomass and JHIII. These results indicated that JHIII can be produced from suspension culture of C. aromaticus using a single-stage cell-culture system.
23016596|More than one third of the USA's federally listed endangered and threatened plants are endemic to Hawaii. Because of the accelerating rate of environmental pressures resulting from habitat degradation to loss, the Hawaiian Rare Plant Program (HRPP, Lyon Arboretum, Honolulu, Hawaii) utilizes in vitro culture and seed storage to rescue, recover, and restore Hawaii's most critically endangered native plant taxa. These in vitro methods complement existing ex situ and in situ efforts in the state. Wild-collected seeds tend to be hard to clean, and obtaining contamination-free seeds or embryos without damage or over sterilization is one of the most difficult obstacles in the successful establishment of in vitro cultures. Loss of rare and valuable propagation material occurs when seed samples succumb to contamination or mortality during the initial disinfestation stage. This study reviews pre-treatments and provides examples of three general disinfestation protocols successfully used in the HRPP to establish axenic ovule and embryo cultures of some endangered Hawaiian species. Three disinfestation protocols are described: bleach sterilization, gas sterilization, and ethanol dip and flame. Since 1998, the HRPP has been successful in establishing in vitro cultures of 135 endangered Hawaiian plant taxa representing 30 genera.
20461718|Transgenic cells containing inserted antibiotic resistance genes and linked genes of interest are routinely selected by exposure to antibiotics. Concerns over the widespread use of antibiotic resistance genes as selectable markers for genetic transformation have motivated researchers to find alternative selection procedures. This study describes the evaluation of an alternative protocol using temperature as the selection tool. In this method, a population of host cells is transformed with a foreign DNA construct that includes at least one gene of interest and an additional sequence encoding a protein that enhances cellular high temperature tolerance. Following transformation, the population of cells is transiently cultured under temperature conditions wherein growth of non-transformed cells is suppressed or prevented, while growth of cells containing the DNA construct continues. Thus, survival and/or significant additional growth is an indication that a cell has been successfully transformed with the DNA construct and can be subsequently recovered for further growth and development. The present study used a heat shock protein (hsp101) gene from Arabidopsis thaliana under the control of a constitutive promoter as a selectable marker; however, alternative potentially suitable genes include: other heat shock proteins; heat shock transcription factors; cold regulated proteins (COR); or protein transcription factors associated with the induction of cold tolerance.
41496516|In vitro tissue culture protocols were tested for propagation of Echinacea purpurea, Echinacea pallida and Echinacea angustifolia in order to obtain biomass for the production of cichoric acid, which is the major active compound in the Echinacea extracts. The in vitro culture process was initiated by seed germination on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium. Multiplication was achieved on MS medium supplemented with naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), indole-3-butyric acid 2-iso-pentenyladenine (2iP), and N-benzyladenine (BA) in different concentrations. Shoot expiants produced the highest number of shootlets on MS medium, which was supplemented with 0.1 mg/l 2iP and 0.1 mg/l IBA. RAPD markers revealed genetic polymorphism in some instances between in vitro generated plantlets such as for E. purpurea plantlets analyzed with the OPO-8 primer. RAPD markers generated with the primer 4A-29 revealed low levels of genetic variation between in vitro plantlets for all three species of Echinacea, while remaining RAPD markers revealed no variation. Content of cichoric acid in leaves, shoots, and callus was analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography/MS and was identified in all studied samples, independent of species or tissue type. Highest levels (0.39-0.73 mg/g dw) were observed in shoots and leaves.
4293368|A simple and efficient method has been developed to improve plant regeneration from protoplasts isolated from >1-yr-old cell-suspension culture of Indica rice (Oryza sativa) cv. Pusa Basmati 1. A two-step regeneration procedure, involving the transfer of calluses to shoot-regeneration medium containing 1% (w/v) agarose prior to culture on a medium containing 0.4% (w/v) agarose, was found to improve plant regeneration. High concentrations of kinetin in the regeneration medium were also found to be beneficial. The two-step regeneration procedure, combined with a high concentration of kinetin (
41432441|The objective of this study was to improve shoot regeneration from grapefruit. Because many commercially grown citrus types are apomictic, important in vitro applications such as Agrobacterium-mediated transformation commonly use epicotyl expiants from in vitro seedlings; thus, adequate adventitious shoot production is an important prerequisite for efficient use of these applications. Eight plant growth regulators were studiedsix cytokinins (6-benzylaminopurine, kinetin, zeatin trans-isomer, 6-[Y,Y-dimethylallylamino] purine, zeatin riboside trans-isomer and meta-topolin) and two auxins (-naphthalene acetic acid and indole-3-acetic acid). An iterative design strategy was followed that included mixture and mixture-amount experimental designs suitable for resolving proportional and concentration effects; in vitro effects of cytokinins and auxins are affected by both proportion and concentration. One-centimeter-long expiants were excised from the epicotyl of etiolated, in Wiro-grown seedlings. Expiants were placed onto experimental formulations and cultured in growth cabinets at 27C over 6 wk, which included 2 wk in the dark followed by 4 wk in the light. The results indicated that (1) 6-benzylaminopurine or zeatin riboside were the most effective cytokinins for inducing shoot regeneration in citrus; (2) zeatin riboside singly or in combination with indole-3-acetic acid resulted in the highest quality, the greatest number of expiants with buds/shoots, and the greatest shoot number; and (3) 6-benzylaminopurine and indole-3-acetic acid improved shoot regeneration vs. 6-benzylaminopurine at a considerably lesser cost than zeatin riboside and indole-3-acetic acid.
4293693|An Agrobacterium-mediated transformation system for Eleutherococcus sessiliflorus was established using uidA gene coding for the
23016746|Tissue culture medium is often overlooked as a factor in plant biotechnology. Most work uses Murashige and Skoog (MS; Physiol Plant in 15:473497, 1962) inorganic medium formulation, which is not likely optimal for many of the plant systems where it is used. This current study of macronutrient factors simultaneously altered media volume and amount of tissue (plants per vessel), sucrose, nitrogen (as NO 3 - and NH 4 + ions), and K + in a d-optimal design space with only 55 experimental units (including five true replicates). Meso- and micro-nutrient concentrations were lowered (5% of MS) to determine which elements were most critical to plantlet quality. Plantlet quality was quantified by multiplication in the laboratory and survival and growth in the greenhouse. Plantlets grown at the lowest plant density, the lowest macronutrient concentration (20 mM), and equimolar proportions of NH 4 + /K + resulted in the best multiplication ratio and 100% greenhouse survival. Multiplication ratio in vitro and survival in the greenhouse were well correlated with one another. Laboratory dry mass, media use, sucrose use, and the uptake of the macronutrients NO 3 - , NH 4 + , and K + were not well correlated with plantlet quality. Plantlets with the greatest uptake of P, Ca, Mg, and Mn had the best multiplication in the laboratory and on subsequent transfer, acclimatized and grew fastest in the greenhouse. Phosphorus was shown to be most depleted in media. This work demonstrates a platform to simultaneously optimize several nutritive components of tissue culture media to produce plantlets that perform well in both laboratory and greenhouse environments. Plant quality was related with factors outside the macronutrient design, and this platform indicated where to expand the experimental space. Fixed, flat-screen presentations revealed less of the response surface than interactive profiles driven by the reader.
4293900|Silicone tubing is frequently used for gas exchange in cell culture systems, due to its biocompatibility and high permeability to CO
23255672|The relative expression of developmentally regulated genes was analyzed during zygotic embryo development in Pinus taeda and somatic embryo development/maturation in P. taeda and Pinus oocarpa. The following four embryo samples were studied: zygotic pro-embryos and somatic embryogenic suspensor masses; round/globular, early cotyledonary, and late cotyledonary. The relative transcript levels of six genes of interest: legumin-/vicilin-like, group 4 late embryogenesis abundant, homeodomain-leucine zipper I, 26S proteasome regulatory subunit S2, and clavata-like, associated with different aspects of embryo development, were analyzed by real-time PCR. In both pine species, the relative transcript levels for legumin-/vicilin-like storage proteins and the late embryogenesis abundant protein accumulated gradually through somatic embryo maturation, in contrast to zygotic embryos, where transcripts increased significantly to their highest levels at the late cotyledonary stage. The homeodomain-leucine zipper I relative transcript accumulation pattern differed between somatic and zygotic embryos. This difference was attributed to differences in cell-type compositions between the embryogenic suspensor masses and pro-embryos. Additionally, in P. oocarpa, the transcript levels of homeodomain-leucine zipper I remained high after the transfer of somatic embryos to maturation conditions, but declined during maturation in P. taeda. The highest 26S proteasome regulatory subunit S2 relative transcript levels in P. taeda were in round/globular somatic and zygotic embryos and in embryogenic suspensor masses and round/globular P. oocarpa somatic embryos. Finally, the relative transcripts levels for the clavata-like gene were more predominant in round/globular, early cotyledonary, and embryogenic suspensor masses in P. taeda and P. oocarpa, respectively. Somatic embryos exhibited relative gene expression patterns similar to their zygotic counterparts, although some differences were noted between zygotic and somatic embryos, as well as between the different pine somatic embryo systems.
4293022|Two representative cultivars of Cicer arietinum, the desi-type cv.Annigeri and the kabuli-type cv.ICCV6, were regenerated in vitro and clonally propagated from cotyledonary nodes and meristem tips. The explants were dissected from 1-wk-old seedlings aseptically germinated on WH medium. In both cultivars, all nodes cultured on B5 medium supplemented with
20064907|Water constitutes nearly 100% of the volume and 95% of the mass of gelled plant tissue culture media. Even so, plant growth and development responses observed to occur with relatively small changes in gelling agent concentration (0.1% of media total mass) have been attributed to changes in media water availability. Measurements with three alternative direct techniques, specific for measuring physiochemical water availability indicated the effects of a change of this magnitude in gelling agent concentration negligibly affected the media water potential and water conductivity. Sensitive pressure membrane measurements indicated that incremental gelling agent concentration increases of 0.1% (of media total mass) within the range normally used for plant tissue culture media, depressed water matric potential only 1-2 cm HO (
4293419|Nine soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] cultivars representing midwestern, mid-south, and southern US growing regions were evaluated at each of three locations (Athens, GA; Lexington, KY; and Wooster, OH) using uniform embryogenic induction and proliferation protocols in order to evaluate the portability of soybean somatic embryogenic protocols to different locations. The experimental design minimized variation between locations by having all cultivars present at all locations on all days. A quantitative weighted score for primary embryo induction was developed on average embryo number per explant and was used to describe non-embryogenic, poorly embryogenic, moderately embryogenic, and highly embryogenic responses. Ranking of cultivars remained similar across all locations, indicating a uniform transportability of the protocol, at least as far as embryo induction is concerned. Continued proliferation of embryogenic cultures was also measured using a repetitive growth measure but few meaningful conclusions could be made due to the high level of variability including inconsistent growth of cultures between each subculture. Overall, several cultivars were identified as being uniformly embryogenic or non-embryogenic at the primary induction phase at all locations, and we predict that those embryogenic cultivars could be used by any laboratory for high-efficiency induction of embryogenesis. The best of these cultivars, 'Jack', was uniformly responsive across all locations and should be selected as the genotype most likely to yield positive results when attempting to culture and genetically engineer soybeans via embryogenic protocols.
20064961|Combining stepper-motors for microscope stage movement with a specially designed software program has led to the establishment of an efficient cell tracking system. Cell immobilization, fixed reference points for calibration of target cell positions, and a video recording system complete the cell finder system. Specific cells can be identified (either beforehand or in retrospect), their locations fixed, and subsequent development of the individual cells monitored daily using computer-assisted relocation. In this way, the specific cell type capable of sustained division and regeneration has recently been identified within a low efficiency protoplast system of a recalcitrant species, sugarbeet. These totipotent cells originated from stomatal guard cells. Isolation and purification procedures were then optimized in a directed way to yield millions of guard cell protoplasts (GCPs). Using polyethylene glycol (PEG)-mediated gene transfer and glucuronidase (GUS) activity for transient expression studies proved that GCPs were amenable to transformation. Gene transfer efficiency was high, as was the number of stably transformed plants that can be produced. At present, the optimized procedure yields 600 transgenic individuals per person per year. This number allows for the selection of the best plants with regard to copy number, DNA insert size, gene expression, and field performance. Prospects for future application of the cell finder system will be discussed.
20461637|Hawthorn (Crataegus spp.) is an important plant with a long history as an ornamental and a source of medicine. A protocol is outlined for adventitious bud regeneration from leaf and cotyledon explants of Chinese hawthorn (C. pinnatifida Bge. var. major N.E.Br.). Adventitious buds were induced on both the leaves of sprouting winter buds and the leaves of in vitro plants, but the percentage of bud regeneration from leaves of in vitro plants was very low-less than 6%. On N6 medium supplemented with 31.08 M BA and 9.67 M NAA, the percentages of bud regeneration from leaves of sprouting winter buds of cultivars "Liaohong" and "Qiujinxing" were 31.4% and 17.6%, respectively. The regeneration abilities of three kinds of cotyledon explants, immature cotyledon, mature cotyledon, and cotyledon leaf, were compared. The percentage of bud regeneration from cotyledon leaves was higher. On MS media supplemented with 4.44 M BA and 4.54-9.08 M TDZ, the percentages of bud regeneration from cotyledon leaves of cultivars "Qiujinxing" and "Xiajinxing" were 27.7  7.8% and 20.1  4.7%, respectively, and the numbers of buds per explant were 5.9  1.6 and 3.2  0.7, respectively. On B5 medium supplemented with 2.22 M BA, 2.32 M Kn, and 0.57 M IAA, adventitious buds grew quickly and 80-100% of buds developed into shoots. The shoots rooted successfully with the two-step rooting method. Ninety days after transplantation, more than 80% plants were survived. This system of adventitious bud regeneration from leaf and cotyledon explants could be useful for the genetic transformation and polyploidization of Chinese hawthorn.
4293689|Plant genetic engineering has contributed substantially to the understanding of gene regulation and plant development, in the generation of transgenic organisms for widespread usage in agriculture, and has increased the potential uses of crops for industrial and pharmaceutical purposes. As the application of genetically engineered plants has widened, so has the need to develop methods to fine-tune control of transgene expression. The availability of a broad spectrum of promoters that differ in their ability to regulate the temporal and spatial expression patterns of the transgene can dramatically increase the successful application of transgenic technology. Indeed, a variety of promoters is necessary at all levels of genetic engineering in plants, from basic research discoveries, concepts and questions, to development of economically viable crops and plant commodities, to addressing legitimate concerns raised about the safety and containment of transgenic plants in the environment. This review covers the characterization and usage of a broad range of promoters employed in plant genetic engineering, including the widespread use of plant promoters with viral and plant origin that drive constitutive expression. Also covered are selected tissue-specific promoters from fruit, seed and grain, tubers, flowers, pistils, anther and pollen, roots and root nodules, and leaves and green tissue. Topics also include organellar promoters, and those found in specific cell types, as well as the development and evaluation of inducible (endogenous and exogenous origin) and synthetic plant promoter systems. Discussions on the relevance and potential pitfalls within specific applications are included.
4293169|Elicitation of anthocyanin-producing cells of ohelo (Vaccinium pahalae) by both biotic (purified
40981341|Medusagyne oppositifolia is a critically endangered monotypic species with only a few trees left in the wild. Due to invasion and habitat clearance, genetic diversity of this species has been reduced to an alarmingly low level. Long-term in vitro cultures of M. oppositifolia were slow-growing and eventually lost the ability to multiply and root. Because of the lack of new seed and vegetative materials, efforts were made to rejuvenate the existing cultures. This was attempted by a series of steps involving serial pruning of the shoot tips and growing on a modified MS medium containing silver nitrate and thidiazuron. Rapid cycling clonal propagules were produced this way from cultured nodes. Isolated shoots were rooted on Florialite  , and rooted plants were weaned in a transition stage using a Nutrient Film Technique (NFT) hydroponic system before being completely weaned under glasshouse conditions. The importance of screening cultures for multiplication and rooting efficiency during long-term maintenance is discussed in the context of stress metabolite production and its influence on growth in culture. Factors contributing to rejuvenation of old cultures, application of unconventional supporting systems for rooting and application of the hydroponic system as a weaning tool are also discussed.
42568707|Plant cell suspension cultures can be used to make safe vaccines at a lower cost than conventional procedures. An inducible gene expression system provides an opportunity to optimize the conditions of vaccine production in a plant system. In this investigation, a dexamethasoneinducible Norwalk virus capsid protein (NVCP) gene expression system has been developed in cell suspension cultures for four different plant species: tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum), rice (Oryza sativa L.), cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.), and slash pine (Pinus elliottii Engelm.) via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Resulting transgenic cell lines were confirmed by Southern blot analyses and NVCP gene expression was confirmed by Northern blot analysis. NVCP gene expression was observed in all 24 cell lines tested, but there were minor differences in transgene expression among the transgenic cell lines. The highest level of NVCP gene expression was observed 48 h after addition of the glucocorticoid hormone dexamethasone (10 mg/l), for all transgenic cell lines derived from four different plant species. This investigation demonstrated that expression of NVCP in different transgenic cell lines and in different species was tightly controlled by the inducer, and the inducible gene expression system could be useful in controlling expression of NVCP or similar proteins for production of vaccines in cultured plant cells.
4293722|A micropropagation procedure for the adult cherimoya tree (Annona cherimola Mill.) is described. Axillary shoot proliferation was obtained after culturing nodal sections from Annona cherimola cv. 'Fino de Jete', on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
41496509|The effects of carbon, nitrogen, phosphate, and copper on cell growth and production of the isoflavone puerarin by suspension cultures of Pueraria tuberosa (Roxb. ex. Willd.) DC were investigated. Among the various sugars evaluated (glucose, galactose, fructose, maltose, and sucrose), use of sucrose in the medium led to the maximum accumulation of puerarin. A sucrosefeeding strategy in which additional sucrose was added to the flasks 15 d into the culture cycle stimulated both cell biomass and puerarin production. The maximum production of puerarin was obtained when a concentration balance of 20: 60 mM NH/NO was used as the nitrogen source. Alteration in the concentration balance of nitrogen components (NH/NO 60: 20 mM) or the use of either NH or NO alone decreased biomass production and puerarin accumulation compared with the control culture (NH/NO 20: 20 mM). High amounts of phosphate (2.5 and 5 mM) in the medium inhibited puerarin production whereas 0.625 mM phosphate promoted puerarin production (68.3 g/g DW on day 25). An increase in Cu concentration from 0.025 to 0.05 mg/l in the P. tuberosa cell culture medium resulted in a 2.2-fold increase in puerarin production (up to 141 g/g DW on day 25) but reduced cell culture biomass.
42568792|Transgenic solutions are being widely explored to develop huanglongbing (HLB) resistance in citrus. A critical component of a transgenic construct is the promoter, which determines tissue specificity and level of target gene expression.This study compares the characteristics of five promoters regulating the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene in the trifoliate hybrid rootstock US-802. Two of the selected promoters direct high levels of constitutive transgene expression in other dicotyledonous plants: 2X35S, the tandem-repeat promoter of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S gene and bul409S, a truncation of the potato polyubiquitin promoter. Because Candidatus Liberibacter, the Gramnegative bacterium associated with HLB, infects only the phloem tissue, it may be advantageous to limit transgene expression to the vascular tissue and reduce expression in the fruit. Thus, we also tested three promoters that demonstrate phloem specificity when transformed and expressed in other plants: WDV, from wheat dwarf geminivirus; AtSUC2, the sucrose-H+ symporter gene promoter from Arabidopsis; and CsSUS, the sucrose synthase promoter from citrus. Histochemical staining for GUS activity was observed throughout leaf and stem tissues for the constitutive promoters, while the three phloem-specific promoters largely showed the expected tissue-specific staining. Expression of GUS in some individual transformants with promoters CsSUS and WDV appeared leaky, with some laminar tissue staining. Relative quantification of qRT-PCR data revealed a wide range of mRNA abundance from transgenics with each of the five promoters. Fluorometry also revealed that GUS activity differed depending on the promoter used, but mRNA levels and enzyme activity were not highly correlated.
20171613|The use of plants for production and delivery of vaccine proteins has shown promise in research conducted during the past decade. Genes encoding bacterial and viral antigens are faithfully expressed, processed, and assembled in plant cells to form immunogenic proteins. Studies in animals and humans showed that ingestion of transgenic potato containing vaccine proteins caused production of antigen-specific antibodies in serum and mucosal secretions. Future studies must aim to improve antigen expression and to develop processes to formulate plant material for antigen stability and convenient oral delivery. Furthermore, production methods should ensure the containment of pharmaceutical crops and prevent contamination of the food supply.
4293461|The effect of exogenously fed hormones on hairy root cultures of Cichorium intybus L. cv. Lucknow Local was studied. It was seen that auxin in the presence of low levels of kinetin induces rapid disorganization in hairy root cultures of C. intybus, ultimately to form suspension cultures, and this process was associated with the decrease in coumarin content in the cells. Of various treatments, it was observed that with an increase in the auxin : cytokinin ratio, the biomass decreased with the increase in disorganization index during the culture period of 28 d. The disorganization index was less when the inoculum size was enhanced to 10-fold. The total endogenous indole-3-acetic acid titers and indole-3-acetic acid oxidase activity also decreased with an increase in disorganization index, and was independent of initial inoculum size, with only a magnitude difference. The total coumarin content strictly correlated with growth in all the treatments. In contrast, exogenously supplied gibberellic acid at the
20461743|Dioscorea zingiberensis is an important medicinal plant and a source of diosgenin in China. We report research on the induction, characteristics, and chemical assays of polyploid plants of D. zingiberensis. Immersing calli in 0.3% colchicine solution for 16 h prior to culture induced a high number of autotetraploid plants. The induction rate reached as high as 36.7% of treated calli. More than 50 lines of autotetraploid plants were obtained. All tetraploid plants showed typical polyploidy characteristics. Twenty selected tetraploid lines were transferred to the field for determination of morphological characteristics and for chemical assays. Six elite lines have been selected for further selection and breeding into new varieties for commercial production.
42568874|With the growing shortage of oil, coal, and other traditional fossil fuels, scientists in various fields have been looking for new fuel sources to solve the energy crisis. The genus Miscanthus is an ideal biofuel crop due to its rapid vegetative growth and its potential for high biomass yields. Plant regeneration through somatic embryogenesis is a viable method to achieve large-scale production of plant biomass. Callus induction from immature inflorescences of five Miscanthus species was performed on two different media, and the relative rates of callus proliferation were calculated. The highest multiplication coefficient, 3.92, was obtained with M. sacchariflorus ssp. lutarioriparius when the concentration of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) in the medium was 4.0 mg/L, and this species also performed the best at the induction phase. The proliferation coefficient for M. floridulus increased to 3.19 when the concentration of 2,4-D was decreased from 4.0 to 2.0 mg/L. When the concentration of 2,4-D was 2.0 mg/L, the proliferation coefficient for M. sinensis was 2.47. In M. sacchariflorus, the proliferation coefficients were 2.89 and 2.49 for the lower and higher concentrations of 2,4-D, respectively. The multiplication coefficient of M. x giganteus was 2.60 on medium containing 4.0 mg/L 2,4-D. Three different regeneration media were tested to induce shoots in vitro. M. floridulus and M. sacchariflorus regenerated shoots at 100% frequency in three different regeneration media. The regeneration rate for M. sacchariflorus ssp. lutarioriparius reached 99.0% on medium containing 4.0 mg/LA-Benzylaminopurine (6-BA) and 0.1 mg/L -Naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The best regeneration rate of M. sinensis was 35.2% using 2.0 mg/L 6-BA and 0.3 mg/L NAA, whereas the regeneration rate of M. x giganteus was 57.4% on medium supplemented with 3.0 mg/L 6-BA and 0.2 mg/L NAA. The in vitro-derived plantlets of all five species had 100% rooting rates on basal MS medium without supplementation. The survival rates of plantlets were above 90% for each species when subsequently grown outdoors.
4293268|Several environmental problems related to plant genetic engineering may prohibit advancement of this technology and prevent realization of its full potential. One such common concern is the demonstrated escape of foreign genes through pollen dispersal from transgenic crop plants to their weedy relatives, creating super weeds or causing gene pollution among other crops or toxicity of transgenic pollen to nontarget insects. The high rates of gene flow from crops to wild relatives (as high as 38% in sunflower and 50% in strawberries) are certainly a serious concern. Maternal inheritance of the herbicide resistance gene via chloroplast genetic engineering has been shown to be a practical solution to these problems. Another common concern is the suboptimal production of Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) insecticidal protein or reliance on a single (or similar) B.t. protein in commercial transgenic crops, resulting in B.t. resistance among target pests. Clearly, different insecticidal proteins should be produced in lethal quantities to decrease the development of resistance. Such hyperex-pression of a novel B.t. protein in chloroplasts has resulted in 100% mortality of insects that are up to 40000-fold resistant to other B.t. proteins. Yet another concern is the presence of antibiotic resistance genes in transgenic plants that could inactivate oral doses of the antibiotic or be transferred to pathogenic microbes in the GI tract or in soil, rendering them resistant to treatment with such antibiotics. Cotransformation and elimination of antibiotic resistant genes from transgenic plants using transposable elements via breeding are promising new approaches. Genetic engineering efforts have also addressed yet another concern, i.e., the accumulation and persistence of plastics in our environment by production of biodegradable plastics. Recent approaches and accomplishments in addressing these environmental concerns via chloroplast genetic engineering are discussed in this review.
4293447|Variability in a given banana population has several advantages when biotechnology is applied in an improvement program. These include the possibility of using systematic analysis or selection techniques to isolate variant or mutant lines with interesting characteristics such as resistance to biotic or abiotic stress. A somaclonal variant of banana CIEN BTA-03 resistant to Yellow Sigatoka disease was obtained by induction of adventitious shoots from excised sucker shoot tips of Williams cultivar (AAA) (subgroup Cavendish), grown in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing
23321160|Controlling fungal and bacterial contamination of woody plant material can be extremely difficult. Isothiazolone biocides and sodium dichloroisocyanurate have been used singly and in combination to reduce microbial contamination in bud explants derived from greenhouse- and field-grown citrus trees. Explants from greenhouse-grown trees were effectively disinfested (< 5% vs. 85% contamination) using a 'standard' disinfestation (SD) procedure followed by culture on medium containing 5 ml l-1 Plant Preservative Mixture, or by the SD procedure but substituting 300 ppm sodium dichloroisocyanurate for 48 h for the treatment with 1.05% NaOCl in the SD procedure. Disinfestation of explants from field-grown trees was less effective than explants from the greenhouse, but was improved (10% vs. 47% contamination) by using a combination of the SD procedure with 1.05% NaOCl, or 100 or 300 ppm sodium dichloroisocyanurate followed by culture onto medium containing 5 ml l-1 Plant Preservative Mixture.
20461632|Shoot formation from rhizome explants of Cymbidium kanran was promoted on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium: (1) with 1 mg l (4.4 M) 6-benzyladenine (BA) and 0.1 mg l (0.54 M) -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA); (2) with ethylene inhibitor (silver nitrate, AgNO); or (3) by reducing ammonium nitrate (NHNO) and potassium nitrate (KNO) to 25 and 50%, respectively, of their original concentrations. Shoot formation by BA and NAA was strongly inhibited with the application of ethephon, an ethylene releaser. The ethylene production from the rhizome explants was reduced 30-55% on low nitrogen medium after 1-3 mo. of culture and 52% on BA and NAA medium after 1 mo. of culture compared with explants on standard MS medium. No difference in endogenous auxin (indole-3-acetic acid, IAA) and cytokinin (isopentenyl adenosine, iPA) contents in the rhizomes was found between the treatments. Low ethylene levels were correlated with higher frequency of shoot formation from the rhizomes.
4293946|Mitotic chromosome analysis has proven to be an important tool in monitoring the potential for genetic exchange among related plant species. One major obstacle to using mitotic chromosome analysis in any species is obtaining large numbers of clear, well-spread metaphase chromosomes necessary to perform cytological techniques such as chromosome banding and fluorescent in situ hybridization. The ability to obtain good chromosome spreads is in part determined by the number and morphology of the roots, which contain the metaphase tissue. Many Amaranthus species produce very thin, delicate roots. The technique used in the process described herein provides for much more substantial roots, allowing for higher probability of obtaining well-spread metaphase chromosomes. Seeds were planted in a soilless mixture, and then cuttings and leaves were taken from the plants. The cuttings were sterilized and placed in Murashige and Skoog (MS) media, while leaf tissue was analyzed by flow cytometry, both pre- and post-propagation, to obtain DNA contents. No changes in DNA content were observed. The in vitro procedure produced significantly larger roots than were produced in soilless mix. Furthermore, all of the in vitro roots observed had 32 chromosomes of normal morphology. In vitro root propagation allowed large numbers of roots to be obtained from a single plant, thereby resulting in increased probability of obtaining cells with metaphase chromosomes that reflected the original plants' chromosome numbers and therefore may be used for molecular cytogenetic analysis.
4293941| The natural propagation rate of Narcissus is very slow. In vitro micropropagation of Narcissus is more efficient than conventional propagation for rapidly building up aseptic stocks of varieties, especially for the establishment of new cvs. and the production of pathogen-free stock material. In the present study, Narcissus tazetta cv. 'Ziva' bulbs were used as the source of mother plants. The bulbs were kept at 30C in a dark chamber until the start of the experiments. Prior to explant preparation, the bulbs were subjected to a cold treatment at 15C in the dark for 6wk to break dormancy. Twin-scales and inflorescence stem discs were isolated from aseptic bulb parts and were used as the initial explants. The polar orientation affected the regeneration of the inflorescence stem. Storage duration at 30C followed by cold treatment were found to affect starch levels, adenosine diphosphate glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase) activities, and regeneration potentials. Starch levels were reduced significantly during a 10 mo. storage period at 30C in both twin-scales and inflorescence stem disc explants. Regeneration was followed by an efficient acclimatization system with 98-99% survival. More than 500 highly uniform young bulbs were propagated from one mother bulb in a 12 mo. period. 
20461624|In vitro plants in slow-growth storage require routine evaluation for assessment of viability and need for repropagation. Determination of plantlet health by visual assessment is subjective and varies by genus due to variations in growth pattern and plant structure. Developing a standardized plant evaluation system would improve the efficiency of in vitro storage. This study was initiated to develop digital image analysis techniques for plantlets during slow-growth cold storage and to compare that system with visual examinations. Pear (Pyrus communis L.) cultivars were chosen for this initial trial because they have an open structure and clear intermode position for image composition. Pear shoots stored at 4C in tissue culture bags were evaluated monthly by standard visual examination and by digital image analysis. Digital images were evaluated for red, green, blue, modified normalized differences of vegetation index (MNDVI), green/red ratio (G/R), intensity, hue, and saturation at the first two nodes of each plantlet. At 6 mo., the visual ratings had declined steadily for P. communis 'Luscious' and 'Bartlett-Swiss', while 'Belle Lucrative' and 'Louise Bonne de Jersey' ratings did not show significant declines until 9 mo. Correlations between visual ratings and G/R and MNDVI values were significant (r  0.5) for all cultivars. Regression analysis indicated that the MNDVI and G/R ratios changed significantly over the 15-mo. rating period for most cultivars. Intensity, hue and saturation values were not consistently significant and did not correlate with visual ratings. These results will assist in the development of digital imaging as an alternative technique for evaluation of stored in vitro plantlets.
29736154|Lipids are key components of all living cells. Acyl lipids and sterols provide the matrix of the biological membranes that both define the boundaries of cells and organelles, and act as sites for the trafficking of molecules within and into/out of cells. Lipids are also important metabolic intermediates and the most efficient form of energy storage that is available to a cell. It is the latter, energy-storing function that is of most relevance to this review. Storage lipids are accumulated in abundance in many of our most important crops, including maize, soybean, rapeseed, and oil palm, giving rise to a commercial sector valued at over $50 billion/year. Because the storage lipids of the major global oil crops have a relatively restricted composition, there is great interest in using all available breeding technologies, whether traditional or modern, to enhance the variation in lipid quality in existing crops and/or to domesticate new crops that already accumulate useful novel lipids. Over the past few decades, there has been a great deal of effort to manipulate fatty acid composition in order to produce novel lipids, especially for industrial applications. However, these attempts, many based on genetic engineering, have met with only limited commercial success to date. More recently, there has been a resurgence of interest in the modification of both acyl and non-acyl lipids to enhance the nutritional quality of plant oils. In this review, we will examine the background to plant lipid modification and some of the latest developments, with a particular focus on edible oils.
41496505|A simple and efficient cryopreservation protocol for coconut zygotic embryos has been developed. Embryos were inoculated in Petri dishes on medium containing 3.2 M glucose, which were placed in hermetically closed containers containing 80 or 160 g silica gel for 48 or 24 h. Moisture content of embryos at the end of this treatment varied between 0.25 and 0.65 g g DW, depending on the accession. Embryos were then transferred for cryopreservation by rapid immersion of cryotubes in liquid nitrogen. After rapid re-warming, embryos were transferred to culture medium containing Eeuwens mineral elements for germination. This protocol was applied to ten accessions representative of coconut genetic diversity, with germination percentages of cryopreserved embryos between 13.7% and 74.7%.
4293256|Potassium leakage and morphological changes during imbibition of white spruce [Picea glauca (Moench) Voss] seeds and somatic embryos were investigated. A single desiccated somatic embryo, a single somatic embryo exposed to a high relative humidity environment for 2 d, and a single dry zygotic embryo leaked similar amounts of potassium over a 120-min period of imbibition in liquid germination medium. A seed without a seed coat leaked two and eight times more potassium than a single whole seed and a single zygotic embryo, respectively. Nearly 50% of the potassium leaked for all tissues was leaked within the first 20 min of imbibition. Exposure of somatic embryos to an environment with high relative humidity resulted in a reduction in the percentage of potassium leaked after 80 and 120 min to levels equivalent to those for zygotic embryos. Using an environmental scanning electron microscope, we found that desiccated somatic embryos and dry zygotic embryos had wrinkled surface cells, with cells in the surface of zygotic embryos being more shrunken in appearance. Imbibition of both types of embryos in water resulted in turgid surface cells after 2 h. Imbibition in liquid germination medium did not cause much hydration of surface cells, which still had wrinkled appearances after 2 h. Finally, imbibition on filter paper on semisolidified germination medium resulted in slower hydration of somatic and zygotic embryos. Cells near the medium appeared hydrated while cotyledon surface cells furthest from the medium resembled cells in desiccated embryos.
4293423|Micropropagation of the anti-cancer plant Camptotheca acuminata Decaisne from axillary buds and seed embryos was investigated. Axillary buds from greenhouse seedlings required a period of culture in media free of
4293565| A new reliable protocol for the induction of adventitious shoots and plant regeneration from cotyledon-derived callus of Acacia sinuata has been developed. Calluses were induced from cotyledon explants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 3% sucrose, 0.8% agar or 0.15% phytagel, 8.1 M -naphthaleneacetic acid, and 2.2 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA). High-frequency regeneration of adventitious buds from callus was achieved when cultured on half-strength MS medium supplemented with 10% coconut water, 13.3 M BA, and 2.5 M zeatin. Histological studies revealed that the regenerated shoots originated from the callus. Among the various carbohydrates tested, sucrose at 87.6 mM was optimum for shoot-bud induction. Addition of 1.7 M gibberellic acid along with 4.4 M BA favored shoot elongation. In vitro-raised shoots produced prominent roots when transferred to half-strength MS medium supplemented with 7.4 M indole-3-butyric acid. Rooted plants, thus developed, were hardened and successfully established in soil (45%). This protocol yielded an average of 40 plantlets per cotyledon explant over a period of 3 mo. 
20064947|To improve proliferation of soybean cultures in liquid medium, the effects of sucrose; total inorganic nitrogen; content of NO, NH,
4293744| We describe an in vitro propagation protocol for Zingiber petiolatum (Holttum) I. Theilade, a rare species from the southern part of Thailand. Fruits were surface-sterilized and seeds germinated on Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) medium supplemented with 3% sucrose. Three-month-old seedlings were used as initial plant material for in vitro propagation. Terminal buds of the plants were inoculated on MS medium containing 6-benzylaminopurine (BA; 2.2-35.5 M) alone or in combination with 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (0.5 M). Eight weeks after inoculation, the cultures were transferred to MS medium without plant growth regulators for 4 wk. The cultures transferred from MS medium with 17.8 M BA revealed the highest shoot induction rate of 6.1  0.7 shoots per explant. Rooting was spontaneously achieved in MS medium without plant growth regulators. Rooted plants were successfully transplanted to soil. 
41496512|In banana and plantain research, it is essential to establish embryogenie cell suspensions together with a highly efficient regeneration and transformation system. This article describes the development of an embryognie cell suspension (ECS), regeneration, and transformation for plantain cv. "Gonja manjaya". ECS was established using highly proliferative multiple buds. The frequency of embryognie friable callus formation was 56.8% of the cultured expiants. Friable embryogenie calli with many translucent proembryos were transferred to liquid medium and homogenous cell suspensions were established within 3-4 mo. Approximately 25,000 to 30,000 plants per 1.0 ml of settled cell volume were regenerated in approximately 13-14 mo. ECSs were transformed using Agrobacterium strain EH A 105 harboring the binary vector pBI121. About 50-60 transgenic plants per 0.5 ml settled cell volume were regenerated on selective medium containing 100 mg l kanamycin. Histochemical GUS assays using different tissues of putatively transformed plants demonstrated stable expression of uidA gene. The presence and integration of the uidA gene were confirmed by PCR and Southern blot analysis, respectively. This is the first report showing establishment of embryognie cell suspension cultures and Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of an important plantain cultivar, "Gonja manjaya". This study shows the huge potential for genetic transformation of plantains for disease or pest resistance, as well as tolerance to abiotic factors such as drought stress using this robust regeneration and transformation protocol.
20461662|This study describes a reproducible protocol for rapid mass propagation of a multipurpose legume, Clitoria ternatea L., using cotyledonary node explants derived from axenic seedlings. Multiple shoots were induced in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with N-benzyladenine (BA), zeatin riboside, or thidiazuron. N-Benzyladenine at 1.0 mg l (4.44 M) was most effective for shoot proliferation. Multiple shoots were also induced in nodal segments of in vitro-raised shoots grown on MS medium containing 1.0 mg l (4.44 M) of BA. Rooting was best induced in shoots grown on half-strength MS medium with 0.25 mg l (1.42 M) of indole-3-butyric acid. Plants were acclimatized in vermicompost and established in soil where they flowered and formed mature seeds.
4293582| Successful shoot regeneration from petioles, leaves, and petioles with leaves cultured in vitro is reported in Heuchera sanguinea. Petioles or petioles with leaves regenerated more shoots than leaves alone. For culture, the optimum hormonal concentrations were 0.19 M -naphthaleneacetic acid combined with 0.44 or 4.4 M benzyladenine in Murashige and Skoog-based (MS) medium; the regenerating rate and the number of shoots per explant were 60% and 8.6-9.7, respectively. Histological study on petiole culture showed dividing cell clusters including vascular tissues after 1 wk, callus including several dividing cell clusters at the periphery after 3 wk and then apical meristems with immature leaves after 5 wk. Rooting from the regenerated shoots was highest (95%) on MS medium containing 4.9 M indole-3-butyric acid. Seventy-three percent of rooted plants were successfully acclimatized in pots. When they were cultured in the field, the plants grew and most flowered the following year over winter. 
4293543|We have examined transgene inheritance in over 300 progeny of a line of soybean (Glycine max) transformed by particle bombardment with a construct containing bovine
4293671|Hemp (Cannabis sativa L.) is cultivated in many parts of the world for its fiber, oil, and seed. The development of new hemp cultivars with improved traits could be facilitated through the application of biotechnological strategies. The purpose of this study was to investigate the propagation of hemp in tissue culture and to establish a protocol for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation for foreign gene introduction. Stem and leaf segments from seedlings of four hemp varieties were placed on Murashige and Skoog medium with Gamborg B5 vitamins (MB) supplemented with
4293882|The development of embryo sacs (ES) in vitro and induction of gynogenesis were studied in onion flower bud culture. Explants were divided into three groups according to their size at inoculation: (a) small flower buds (2.3-3.0 mm in diameter); (b) medium flower buds (3.1-3.7 mm); and (c) large flower buds (3.8-4.4 mm). For histological study, excised ovaries were fixed at inoculation and then at 3-d intervals until day 12, and after 2 and 3 wk of culture. Some explants were cultured until embryo emergence, i.e., 3-5 mo. In total, 2592 ovules were examined histologically. At inoculation, 83% of ovules in small flower buds contained a megaspore mother cell; in 17% of ovules, two-nucleate ES occurred. In medium flower buds two-nucleate, four-nucleate, and mature ES were present at frequencies of 15%, 46%, and 40%, respectively. In large flower buds, only mature ES occurred. In vitro conditions did not disturb meiosis and megagametophyte development in non-degenerated ovules. Regardless of the developmental stage at inoculation, only mature ES occurred on day 12. Gynogenic embryos were found after 2 wk of culture, indicating that embryos developed in mature ES exclusively. Embryos were detected in 5.4% of histological studied ovules; however, the number of embryos after 3-5 mo. was higher (12.4%). The parthenogenetic origin of the embryos is discussed. In addition, ES containing endosperm only (6.5%) and both endosperm and embryo (0.4%) were observed.
20064932|Several methods have been developed to obtain somatic embryos of soybean. We report here a new procedure that results in high frequency somatic embryo initiation in a short period of time. Somatic embryos were induced from immature cotyledons of the cultivars "Jack," "Thorne," "Resnik," and "Chapman." Immature cotyledons were cultured on a medium containing MS salts, B vitamins, 6% sucrose, and 40 mg/l 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Culture modifications included: orientation of the explants (adaxial or abaxial side of the cotyledon in contact with the medium), adjustment of medium pH (5.7 or 7.0), wounding of cotyledons with scalpel blades, inclusion of ethylene modulators, and use of Noble agar or Gelrite as the solidifying agent. The treatment that resulted in the highest embryo induction across the cultivars consisted of abaxial side of the explant facing the medium, pH 7.0 and 0.2% Gelrite. "Jack" was the most responsive cultivar showing the first embryos as early as 14 d after culture. After 21 d, an average of 44 embryos per cotyledon was obtained with this cultivar. The inclusion of silver nitrate (AgNO) in the culture medium did not enhance the number of primary somatic embryos induced per cotyledon, but the addition of 15 M AgNO did result in a faster production of secondary embryos using the cultivar "Jack." Wounding of the explants with a scalpel resulted in an earlier induction of somatic embryos. Embryo initials were first observed after only 7 d. Histological examination of cultured cotyledons indicated that the somatic embryos originated from the subepidermal tissues and were of multicellular origin. This somatic embryo induction procedure could be useful for direct transformation work and permits the production of embryogenic tissue within 2 wk.
4293913|A simple and effective procedure has been developed for plantlet regeneration from cotyledon-derived callus of the medicinally important herb and ornamental species, Incarvillea sinensis. An average of 18.4 adventitious shoots per explant were obtained from 100% cotyledon explants cultured on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing
4293850| An in vitro protocol has been developed for callus induction, somatic embryogenesis, and plant regeneration from stigma-style culture of grapevine. Four different grapevine cultivars (Vitis vinifera L.; cvs. 'Bombino Nero,' 'Greco di Tufo,' 'Merlot,' and 'Sangiovese') were tested. Explants were cultured on Nitsch and Nitsch medium (NN) supplemented with various combinations of 6-benzylaminopurine (BA; 4.5 and 9.0 M) and -naphthoxyacetic acid (NOA; 5.0 and 9.9 M). Sucrose (88 mM) was used as the carbon source. Somatic embryogenesis was induced within 3-7 mo. after culture initiation. Even though explants of different origin (unfertilized ovules and anthers) regenerated somatic embryos, the higher embryogenic potential was observed in stigma and style explants, with the exception of 'Merlot,' which regenerated somatic embryos only from unfertilized ovules. The percentages of stigma-style explants producing somatic embryos was 7% in 'Bombino Nero' (cultured on NN medium supplemented 9.0 M BA and 9.9 M NOA), 14% in 'Greco di Tufo' (4.5 M BA and 9.9 M NOA), and 8% in 'Sangiovese' (9.0 M BA and 9.9 M NOA). The presence of growth regulators (BA and NOA) in the medium was essential for induction of somatic embryogenesis. Plants were regenerated on hormone-free NN medium containing 88 mM sucrose. 
41496447|A liquid paraffin overlay (LPO) was used for storage of rapidly multiplying somatic embryos of Dendrocalamus hamiltonii under slow-growth conditions. Slow growth was associated with changes in sugar metabolism. In rapidly growing embryogenic tissues, a sharp decline in starch and non-reducing sugars indicated rapid utilization of starch. In contrast, under slow-growth conditions in somatic embryos stored under LPO, a gradual decline in starch indicated its slower utilization. As a result, growth of somatic embryos under LPO was suppressed and subculturing was not required. Following retrieval from growth under LPO after 30, 90, 180, 270, and 365 d of storage, the somatic embryos showed high recovery and germination (79.78%, 77.49%, 71.22%, 67.13%, and 59.99%, respectively) and were able to proliferate following transfer to Murashige and Skoog's (Physiol. Plant. 15: 473-197, 1962) medium containing 1 mg1 BAP and 2% sucrose. The study provides useful information on in vitro storage of embryogenic tissue of D. hamiltonii.
4293702| Acacia mangium microshoots from juvenile and mature genotypes were micropropagated through a regular subculture regime for more than 3 yr in vitro. Average multiplication rates of 5.5 for the juvenile source and of 3.9 for the mature clone were obtained during this period on the 6-benzylaminopurine-enriched multiplication medium. Although the juvenile material displayed higher potential for axillary shoot and root formation than the mature clone overall, the differences were not statistically significant with noticeable variations in the course of time from one subculture to another. On specific rooting media, the juvenile material rooted overall in greater proportions than the mature material, notwithstanding noteworthy interactions between the age of the plant material and the various experimental factors tested, i.e. sucrose concentration, macrosalt formulation and light regime. The stimulating effect of darkness on juvenile plant material rooting rates was more obvious than for the mature clone, which responded more inconsistently. Addition of 4 M indole-3-acetic acid, indole-3-butyric acid, or 1-naphthaleneacetic acid in the rooting medium significantly increased the proportion of rooted microshoots of both origins. The rooting criteria observed were also prone to vary depending on the experimental date. The data indicate that rooting of juvenile and mature Acacia mangium materials have average rates of 90% and 77%, respectively. These are high enough to consider possible applications of these procedures toward operational activities. 
4293830|An efficient protocol for plant regeneration from stem segments of Murraya koenigii was developed by culturing on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
4293785|Growth and morphogenesis of plant tissues under in vitro conditions are largely influenced by the composition of the culture media. In this study, effects of different inorganic nutrients (ZnSO
24596334|Boesenbergia rotunda is a perennial ginger species rich in flavonoids, flavones, and cyclohexenyl chalcone derivatives. Several of these secondary metabolites have shown promising antiviral and anticancer activities, and thus, it is important to optimize methods for robust production of clonal materials. In this study, cell suspensions were established and their growth capacities were evaluated in liquid media supplemented with varying growth regulator compositions. The highest settled cell volume of 6.10.3 ml with a specific growth rate of 0.08920.0035 was achieved by maintaining cells in Murashige and Skoog liquid media supplemented with 1.0 mg L of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 0.5 mg L 6-benzyladenine, representing a 12-fold increase in cell volume during the culture period. A somatic embryogenesis rate of 1,433.33387.84 somatic embryos per milliliter of settled cells was achieved with an inoculation cell density of 50 l settled cell volume and on growth regulator-free agar plates. Around half (53.57.9%) of the somatic embryos germinated into complete plantlets on media supplemented with 3 mg L 6-benzyladenine and 1 mg L -naphthaleneacetic acid. The plantlets were successfully transferred to soil and grown in the greenhouse. Phytochemical profiling via high-performance liquid chromatography analysis revealed that regenerated plantlets retained the capacity to produce and accumulate bioactive compounds. Hence, this protocol will be helpful for metabolic engineering and functional studies of genes and enzymes involved in the biosynthetic pathway of valuable compounds in B. rotunda.
20541014|A new protocol for the production of transgenic pineapple plants was developed. Adventitious buds were induced directly from Agrobacterium-infected leaf bases and stem discs of in vitro plants, bypassing the establishment of callus cultures. Non-chimeric transgenic plants were obtained by multiple subculturing of primary transformants under increasing levels of selection. A total of 42 independent transgenic lines were produced from two cultivars with two different constructs: one containing a modified rice cystatin gene (Oc-ID86) and the other with the anti-sense gene to pineapple aminocyclopropane synthase (ACS). GUS histochemical staining provided the first evidence of the non-chimeric nature of the transformed plants. Their non-chimeric nature was further demonstrated by PCR analyses of the DNA extracted from individual leaves of a primary transformed plant and also from multiple plants propagated from a single transformation event. Southern hybridization confirmed random integration patterns of transgenes in the independent lines. For the Oc-ID86 gene, the expression at the mRNA level was detected via RT-PCR and its translation was detected by protein blot. Agronomic evaluation and bioassays of the transgenic plants will further validate the utility of this new tool for pineapple improvement.
4293777|Improved in vitro tissue culture systems are needed to facilitate the application of transgene technology to the improvement of sugar beet germplasms. Several commercially important sugar beet breeding lines (SDM 3, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, HB 526, and CMS 22003) and commercial varieties (Roberta and Gala) were tested for their regeneration capacity through adventitious shoot organogenesis from cotyledons, hypocotyls, root/hypocotyl/shoot transition zone tissues, and leaf lamina and petiole via an intervening callus phase. Callus induction and adventitious shoot regeneration was dependent on genotype and combinations of plant growth regulators. With cotyledon or hypocotyl explants, SDM 3 and 10 showed a better response on adventitious shoot regeneration in medium containing benzyladenine (BA) and 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid or 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) than SDM 11, 5, and 9. Shoot regeneration was obtained from hypocotyl-root or hypocotyl-shoot transition zone tissue in SDM 9, 10, and HB 526 grown on PGo medium supplemented with BA to induce callus, and the regeneration frequency was 25%. Adventitious shoots were also regenerated from leaf explants of SDM 3 and 9 cultured on medium containing NAA for callus induction and BA and NAA to induce shoot regeneration, and in SDM 10 and CMS 22003 cultured on medium containing BA for callus induction and to induce shoot regeneration.
4293229|Studies were conducted to optimize the in vitro production of stigma-like-structures (SLS) that yielded the important biochemical constituents responsible for the color, taste, and aroma naturally found in the stigmas of autumn crocus. Immature half-ovary expiants were evaluated for the frequency of proliferation of SLS by culture on five basal media supplemented with different combinations of plant growth regulators and vitamins. The optimum proliferation of SLS was observed on B5 basal medium containing
20064912|The effects of nodal explants collected at different plastochrones, use of various benzyladenine (BA) concentrations, sources of carbohydrates, and phases of the culture medium on shoot establishment and proliferation of Rosa hybrida L. and R. chinensis minima were evaluated. Higher numbers of shoots per explant were obtained from R. hybrida cv. Carefree Beauty explants proximal to the apical meristem than those from distal nodes. However, proliferating shoots derived from plastochrones proximal to the apical meristem had a lower number of leaves/explant and were shorter than those derived from other distal plastochrones. Although shoot proliferation increased with higher BA concentration in the medium, a concentration of 4.4 M BA was found optimum for axillary bud-break and shoot development for R. hybrida cvs. Adelaide Hoodless and Cuthert Grant. A higher shoot proliferation rate was observed for R. hybrida cv. Carefree Beauty explants grown on a medium containing 55.5 mM fructose than 58.4 mM sucrose. However, no differences were observed for R. hybrida cv. Cuthert Grant grown on a medium containing either fructose or sucrose. The mean number of shoots/explant was higher for R. chinensis minima cv. Red Sunblaze explants grown on a liquid (4.5) than on a solid medium (1.7) for the first reculture; while no significant differences between the two phases of the medium were observed for the second reculture. However, a higher mean number of shoots/explant was observed on solid-phase (4.0) than liquid-phase medium (3.4) for the third reculture. A higher mean number of leaves/shoot was obtained on a solidified medium rather than liquid medium in the first two consecutive recultures, while no differences were observed for the third reculture. Although a significant effect of BA concentration on mean number of shoots/explant was observed for Red Sunblaze nodal explants, the influence of BA concentration decreased in the two consecutive cultures for both phases of the medium. Hyperhydricity was observed on Red Sunblaze shoots grown on the liquid-phase medium.
40663773|In vitro physiology and carbon metabolism can be affected by the sink-source relationship. The effect of different sucrose concentrations (10, 30, and 50 g L), light intensities (80 and 150 mol m s), and CO levels (375 and 1,200 mol mol) were tested during plantain micropropagation in temporary immersion bioreactors. Activities of pyruvate kinase, phosphoenol pyruvate carboxylase, and the photosynthesis rate were recorded. From the morphological and practical point of view, the best results were obtained when plants were cultured with 30 g L sucrose, 80 mol m s light intensity, and 1,200 mol mo1 CO concentration. This treatment improved leaf and root development, reduced respiration during in vitro culture, and increased starch level at the end of the hardening phase. In addition to that, the number of competent plants was increased from 80.0% to 91.0% at the end of the in vitro phase and the survival percentage from 95.71% to 99.80% during ex vitro hardening.
4293083|Cotton (Gossypium hirsutum, Texas Marker-1) fiber cells originating from ovule culture have been analyzed by gel permeation chromatography of dimethyl acetamide/lithium chloride-soluble components and compared with in planta-grown fibers. The profile of cell-wall polymer molecular weights indicated that fibers grown for 21 d in culture more closely resembled fibers growing in planta for 30 d post-anthesis than fully mature fibers. The weight average molecular weight was 3 400 000 and number average molecular weight of polymers from ovule culture fibers was 109 000. Analysis of the polymer weight fraction distribution revealed that ovule culture fibers were similar to 30 d post-anthesis immature fibers but lacked a low molecular weight (log M 3-4) polymer fraction. Assessment of the polymer branching frequency showed that ovule culture fibers were intermediate in branching between 30 d post-anthesis fiber and mature in planta fiber. In summary, polymers deposited in cell walls of ovule culture fibers appear to grossly mimic the polymers accumulated during normal fiber biogenesis in planta, yet subtle differences may explain why ovule culture fibers rarely reach their full genetic potential in length.
25623035|Carrot suspension cultures are efficient production systems for plant-made pharmaceuticals (PMP); however, frequently, the reduction of transgene expression in long-running transgenic cell lines limits the productivity. Freshly induced carrot suspensions have been identified for a constant and high biomass production with optimization of culture conditions and cultivars. A small-volume monitoring method was adapted to freshly induced carrot suspension that minimized the heterogeneity of freshly induced meristematic carrot cell lines. Using this system combined with the adaptation of growth conditions, we identified the cultivar Rote Riesen as having the highest increase in dry biomass with an average of 6.5 g/L weekly, stable and consistent after 8 wk. As a model PMP, VP60the capsid protein from the rabbit hemorrhagic disease viruswas produced in a carrot suspension with a maximal accumulation of 2.4 g/g dry mass. The developed method guarantees comparable investigations of different transgene expression in various freshly induced small-volume carrot cell lines.
20461747|A major limitation of crop biotechnology and breeding is the lack of efficient molecular technologies for precise engineering of target genomic loci. While transformation procedures have become routine for a growing number of plant species, the random introduction of complex transgenenic DNA into the plant genome by current methods generates unpredictable effects on both transgene and homologous native gene expression. The risk of transgene transfer into related plant species and consumers is another concern associated with the conventional transformation technologies. Various approaches to avoid or eliminate undesirable transgenes, most notably selectable marker genes used in plant transformation, have recently been developed. These approaches include contransformation with two independent T-DNAs or plasmid DNAs followed by their subsequent segregation, transposon-mediated DNA elimination, and most recently, attempts to replace bacterial T-DNA borders and selectable marker genes with functional equivalents of plant origin. The use of site-specific recombination to remove undesired DNA from the plant genome and concomitantly, via excision-mediated DNA rearrangement, switch-activate by choice transgenes of agro-nomical, food or feed quality traits provides a versatile "transgene maintenance and control" strategy that can significantly contribute to the transfer of transgenic laboratory developments into farming practice. This review focuses on recent reports demonstrating the elimination of undesirable transgenes (essentially selectable marker and recombinase genes) from the plant genome and concomitant activation of a silent transgene (e.g., a reporter gene) mediated by different site-specific recombinases driven by constitutive or chemically, environmentally or developmentally regulated promoters. These reports indicate major progress in excision strategies which extends application of the technology from annual, sexually propagated plants towards perennial, woody and vegetatively propagated plants. Current trends and future prospects for optimization of excision-activation machinery and its practical implementation for the generation of transgenic plants and plant products free of undesired genes are discussed.
20461599|This study reports an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of green-colored cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.). A tissue culture procedure was optimized to induce callus formation from hypocotyl explants and subsequent differentiation into the embryogenic type. Callus formation could be induced by growing explants on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and kinetin. Among the four genotypes studied, embryogenic calli and plant regeneration were observed only in var. G9803. Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of G9803 with the fiber-specific expansin gene GhExp1 was achieved based on the establishment of these tissue culture methods. A total of 32 individual regenerants resistant to kanamycin were generated within 7 mo., with a transformation frequency of 17.8%. Transformation was confirmed by Southern blot analysis and RT-PCR. These results represent the first step towards genetic manipulation of the colors and fiber quality of green-colored cottons by biotechnology.
29736171|A micropropagation protocol for Pouteria lucuma R. and Pav. var. La Molina was developed. Shoots from zygotic embryos with a portion of endosperm were established in vitro on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 0.47 M kinetin (Kin) and 0.54 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Multiplication of shoots was accomplished using subapical shoots. The best axillary-shoot production was observed on MS basal medium with 2.2 M benzyladenine (BA), 0.5 M NAA, 1.4 M gibberellic acid (GA), and 40 mgl adenine sulfate, with the development of up to three axillary shoots per subapical shoot. One hundred percent rooting was obtained from shoots grown for 4 wk on MS medium with 246 M indole-3-butyric acid under light conditions. Eighty percent of the microplantlets survived after acclimatization when transplanted to a substrate previously enriched with beneficial soil bacteria. This study describes, for the first time, arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) colonization of this species. Inoculation with AM fungi improved growth and development of lucumo plants and induced changes to the root morphology.
20064980|Various preconditioning treatments of alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) somatic embryos to improve embryo quality and conversion were studied. Four different regenerating genotypes were compared. Embryogenic cultures were established in liquid culture. Globular embryos were collected and plated on an embryo development medium until they reached cotyledonary stage. They were then exposed to three treatments: a standard embryo development medium (control), media supplementation with 1 M abscisic acid (ABA), 50 mM glutamine and 5% sucrose (T), additional supplementation with 50 M ABA (TT), and additional supplementation followed by desiccation (TTD). Treatments affected embryo conversion, but not uniformly for all genotypes. Embryo conversion was increased (P &lt 0.05) by pretreatment (T), while only one exhibited any response to additional ABA (T vs. TT). Desiccation decreased (P &lt 0.05) conversion of pretreated embryos (TT vs. TTD) of all genotypes. The effect of treatments on plantlet weight was less pronounced and inconsistent across genotypes.
4293539|Chili pepper is an important horticultural crop that can surely benefit from plant biotechnology. However, although it is a Solanaceous member, developments in plant cell, tissue, and organ culture, as well as on plant genetic transformation, have lagged far behind those achieved for other members of the same family, such as tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum), tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum), and potato (Solanum tuberosum), species frequently used as model systems because of their facility to regenerate organs and eventually whole plants in vitro, and also for their ability to be genetically engineered by the currently available transformation methods. Capsicum members have been shown to be recalcitrant to differentiation and plant regeneration under in vitro conditions, which in turn makes it very difficult or inefficient to apply recombinant DNA technologies via genetic transformation aimed at genetic improvement against pests and diseases. Some approaches, however, have made possible the regeneration of chili pepper plants from in vitro-cultured cells, tissues, and organs through organogenesis or embryogenesis. Anther culture has been successfully applied to obtain haploid and doubled-haploid plants. Organogenic systems have been used for in vitro micropropagation as well as for genetic transformation. Application of both tissue culture and genetic transformation techniques have led to the development of chili pepper plants more resistant to at least one type of virus. Cell and tissue cultures have been applied successfully to the selection of variant cells exhibiting increased resistance to abiotic stresses, but no plants exhibiting the selected traits have been regenerated. Production of capsaicinoids, the hot principle of chili pepper fruits, by cells and callus tissues has been another area of intense research. The advances, limitations, and applications of chili pepper biotechnology are discussed.
4293291|A comparative study was conducted to optimize the vegetative growth of sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas L. (Lam), cv. Beniazuma) plantlets cultured in vitro in five different types of supporting materials: agar matrix (a seaweed derivative; Kanto Chemical Co. Inc., Tokyo), gellan gum (a Pseudomonas derivative; Kanto Chemical Co. Inc., Tokyo), vermiculite (a kind of hydrous silicates), a mixture of vermiculite and cellulose fiber (Florialite; Nisshinbo Industries, Inc., Tokyo) and cellulose plug (Sorbarod; Baumgartner Rapiers SA., Switzerland). Single nodal cuttings were cultured photoautotrophically (without any sugar in the medium and with enriched CO
4293312|Somatic hybrid plants of Nicotiana tabacum (bar) (+) Nicotiana megalosiphon (npt II) were recovered after polyethylene glycol (PEG) mediated fusion. Hybrid calluses were selected on the basis of their dual resistance to bialaphos and kanamycin or UV inactivation of the donor species (Nicotiana megalosiphon) protoplasts. The hybrid nature of the individual clones obtained was confirmed by AFLP analysis. An array of plants were recovered including self-fertile hybrid plants with N. tabacum or N. megalosiphon phenotype, self-sterile plants with N. tabacum habit, leaf and intermediate flower morphology, self-sterile plants with N. megalosiphon habit, abnormal leaves and intermediate flowers, and self-sterile plants of N. megalosiphon type with abnormal characters. Viable pollen was observed in hybrid plants from the third group. The hybrids possessed a nuclear DNA content near that of the diploid tobacco or N. megalosiphon, and also near that of the tetraploid genome size of N. megalosiphon. The results provide evidence for nonpreferential loss of one of the parental genomes and spontaneous asymmetrization of hybrid plants. The present study shows that by means of somatic hybridization a great genetic diversity in the hybrid clones can be achieved.
23321162|N6-Benzyladenine (BA; 0.044 M) application to germinated Quercus suber somatic embryos considerably increased caulinar apex elongation frequency and maintained active growth in the plantlets, although it did not have a significant effect on the percentage of shoots with normal morphology. The addition of 0.5 M indoleacetic acid together with the cytokinin did not have any effect. The use of a low concentration (0.04 M) of BA allowed the appropriate radicle elongation in all germinating somatic embryos, but higher concentrations arrested this elongation.
20461693|A procedure for producing somatic embryos enriched with dibenzyl trisulfide (DTS) using a hormone-dependent culture system is reported for Petiveria alliacea L. (Guinea hen weed). Leaf explants were cultured on a Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with a range of naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) concentrations and a fixed concentration of benzyladenine (BAP) at 11.0 M and sucrose or glucose at 30 g l. Leaf explants cultured on all media types started to form callus at the cut surfaces of the discs 10-14 d after initiation. The type of sugar used influenced average fresh weight, the propensity to form roots, as well as the embryogenic response. The highest mean fresh weight (337.726.18 mg) and mean root number (23.71.69) was produced on media enriched with sucrose and supplemented with 53.7 M NAA and 11.0 M BAP. An ethanol extract of rhizogenic/embryogenic callus or somatic embryos was subjected to high-performance liquid chromatography analysis, which revealed the presence of DTS in both extracts. UV spectral analysis and the use of standard quantitation procedures showed that the quantity of DTS in the somatic embryo extract, at 0.16% (w/v), was approximately 30-fold higher than in rhizogenic/embryogenic callus (0.0055% w/v) of similar fresh weight. These results indicate that it is possible to biosynthesize approximately 6 mg of natural DTS from 3,808 mg of fresh somatic embryos within 10 wk from less than three leaf explants.
40981324|In an analysis of 339 independent T transgenic rice lines generated by Agrobacterium-mGdiatGd transformation, albino plants appeared in the T generation in two single-copy transgenic lines, O54 and O36 and in one double-copy transgenic line, C18. While the T plants of these three lines were green, albino and green plants emerged in a 1:3 ratio in the T generation. The albino phenotype segregated as a monogenic recessive trait. Southern blot analysis of the green and albino plants in the T generation confirmed that the albino trait and the T-DNA insertion events were unlinked. Segregation of the albino trait from the transgenic trait in the lines O54 and O36 was confirmed in T and T generations, respectively. Homozygous transgenic plants free from the albino trait were also identified. In the double-copy transgenic line 18, we genetically separated the two transgenic loci, outsegregated the albino locus from both transgene loci, and identified homozygous plants for each of the transgenic events by Southern blot analysis in the T generation itself. Thus, we demonstrate that when an albino trait appears in the T generation and is unlinked to a transgene locus, the albino locus can be segregated from the transgene locus and homozygous transgenic lines free from albinos can be established.
20461711|Several authors have suggested that plant biotechnologists perform regression or trend analysis to compare means of related quantitative treatments (e.g., doses of inositol). The present paper compares two statistical strategies to determine the effect of inositol (0-400 mg l) on proteolytic activity in the culture medium during pineapple growth in temporary immersion bioreactors. Strategy 1 involved one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) followed by Tukey's Honestly Significant Difference (HSD). Strategy 2 consisted in the development of different regression analyses to determine the best fit equations to describe the experimental results. Curvefit software (version 2.10-0, May 15, 1987, Thomas S. Cox) was used. Cauchy, Normal, Parabola, and Hoerl equations were the best fitted according to their determination coefficients (R). The optimal inositol concentrations to increase proteolytic activity were determined from the equations. Quite different results were obtained following strategy 2: 126.76 mg l inositol from Cauchy, 131.29 mg l from Normal, 145.06 mg l from Parabola, and 14.05 mg l from Hoerl equations. In contrast, experimental data identified 200 mg l inositol as the most adequate concentration to increase proteolytic activity in the culture medium. The statistical strategy 1, one-way ANOVA followed by Tukey HSD clearly supported this biological observation. In this paper, regression analysis was not useful to describe our experimental results.
4292916|Recent advances in plant molecular biology have depended largely on the development of efficient methods of introducing foreign DNA into plant cells. Gene transfer into plant cells can be achieved by either direct uptake of DNA or the natural process of gene transfer carried out by the soil bacterium Agrobacterium. Although both of these processes allow the generation of stably transformed plants, the former offers the advantage of allowing the study of transient expression of gene constructs in protoplasts cultured in vitro. In addition to the potential application of transgenic plants in agriculture and biotechnology they can be used to study the expression of foreign DNA, to carry out the functional analysis of plant DNA sequences, to investigate the mechanism of viral DNA replication and cell-to-cell spread, as well as to study transposition. Moreover, the versatility of the gene transfer vectors is such that they may be used to isolate genes unamenable to isolation using conventional protocols.
4293681|The use of scaled-up liquid cultures could be an efficient system for mass propagation of Narcissus, as it can greatly reduce the costs involved with manual handling. Induction of hyperhydric meristematic leaf section clusters and proliferation were carried out in an ancymidol (ANC)-containing liquid medium in flasks and disposable presterilized plastic bioreactors. Non-hyperhydric bulblets started to develop from hyperhydric meristematic leaf section clusters after subculture on a 0.8% agar strength medium, and young bulbs formed after 10 mo. in vivo acclimatization with a 98% survival rate. The present study reveals that in Narcissus leaf sections cultured in liquid medium, morphogenetic changes in leaf sections were associated with metabolic changes. The changes in carbohydrate, protein, and water potential of the liquid media and leaf sections were found to be closely related to meristematic center initiation on Narcissus hyperhydric leaf sections. Starch, sucrose, and glucose were significantly higher in the hyperhydric leaf sections cultured in ANC medium. The water potential was significantly higher in ANC-treated leaf sections and significantly lower in the medium containing ANC, at the stage shortly before or after hyperhydricity and meristematic centers began forming on the leaf sections. A 30 kDa protein was found to be present in the hyperhydric leaf sections. Based on the present study, a large-scale micropropagation protocol of Narcissus in agar and liquid cultures is proposed.
42568711|The regeneration potential, antioxidative enzyme activities, and genetic stability among micropropagated plantlets of Dianthus caryophyllus L. were evaluated. Multiple adventitious shoots were induced from leaf explants on Murashige and Skoog medium incorporated with various combinations and concentrations of plant growth regulators (PGRs). The highest leaf expiant response (90%), number of shoots per explant (15.301.19), and shoot length (6.750.63 cm) was recorded in response to a combination of 2.5 M 6-benzyladenine and 0.5 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) after 8 wks culture. Subsequent subculturing for five passages, on a medium with the same composition of PGRs, induced the highest shoot number (42.501.44), with an average shoot length of 8.06 cm after the fourth subculture. Different concentrations of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) were tested to determine the optimum conditions for ex vitro rooting of microshoots. The best result was accomplished with a pulse treatment of IBA (100 M) applied to the basal end of the microshoot for 30 min, followed by transfer to plastic cups containing soilrite, and eventually established in natural soil with an 85% survival rate. The determination of activities of antioxidative enzymes (superoxide dismutase, ascorbate peroxidase, catalase, and glutathione reductase) revealed involvement of these enzymes in shoot differentiation and development. All of these activities were interlinked with each other and played significant roles in the scavenging of toxic free radicals. Intersimple sequence repeat DNA analysis was carried out using five primers. The amplification products were monomorphic in micropropagated plants, similar to those of the mother plant. No polymorphisms were detected revealing the genetic integrity of the micropropagated plants.
4293038|The Ringo Rose cultivar of zonal geranium (Pelargonium x hortorum Bailey) has been shown to be morphogenetically unresponsive. Attempts to improve somatic embryogenesis using various seed stress treatments before germination proved ineffective. However, bacterial contamination of one of the seed-stress treatments led to infected explants that had a significant increase in frequency of high-quality somatic embryos. The co-cultivation of explants with the isolated bacterium (tentatively identified as Bacillus sp.) was found to be repeatable, and potentially represents a novel way to improve morphogenesis in geranium and possibly other species.
4293491|Somatic embryogenesis from nucellus-derived callus cultures of five cultivars, including three (Caipira, Seleta Vermelha, and Valencia) of sweet oranges (C. sinensis L. Osbeck), Rangpur lime (C. limonia L. Osbeck), and Cleopatra mandarin (C. reticulata Blanco) (lines I and II), were studied. Callus lines maintained on MT medium supplemented with
4293264|A forced ventilation system has been developed for large-scale photoautotrophic micropropagation of chlorophyllous plants. The major goal of the system is to provide a uniform supply of CO
20541028|This work presents detailed comparative analysis on the production economics of both current and future biofuels, including ethanol, biodiesel, and butanol. Our objectives include demonstrating the impact of key parameters on the overall process economics (e.g., plant capacity, raw material pricing, and yield) and comparing how next-generation technologies and fuels will differ from today's technologies. The commercialized processes and corresponding economics presented here include corn-based ethanol, sugarcane-based ethanol, and soy-based biodiesel. While actual full-scale economic data are available for these processes, they have also been modeled using detailed process simulation. For future biofuel technologies, detailed techno-economic data exist for cellulosic ethanol from both biochemical and thermochemical conversion. In addition, similar techno-economic models have been created for n-butanol production based on publicly available literature data. Key technical and economic challenges facing all of these biofuels are discussed.
20541033|C4 grasses are among the most productive plants and most promising cellulosic biofuel feedstocks. Successful implementation of cellulosic biofuel feedstocks will depend on the improvement of critical crop characteristics and subsequent conversion technologies. The content and composition of lignin, cellulose, and hemicellulose, their biomass yields, and their biotic and abiotic stress tolerances are critical factors which can be enhanced by molecular breeding methods, including marker-assisted selection and transgenic approaches. To maximize biomass yield, no flowering or late flowering and no grain set would be ideal for cellulosic biofuel crops. Reducing fecundity also reduces the risk of undesired gene transfer and invasiveness, thus accelerating deregulation processes and permitting faster implementation of highly improved genotypes in cellulosic feedstock production.
4293499|The production of five new somatic hybrids with potential for improved disease resistance is reported herein. Protoplast isolation, fusion, and plant regeneration was achieved from Caipira sweet orange (Citrus sinensis L. Osbeck) as an embryogenic parental source and Volkamer lemon (C. volkameriana Pasquale), Cleopatra mandarin (C. reticulata Blanco), and Rough lemon (C. jambhiri Lushington) as non-embryogenic parental sources. Fusion involving Cleopatra mandarin and Rangpur lime (C. limonia L. Osbeck) as embryogenic parental sources with Sour orange (C. aurantium L.) also resulted in somatic hybrid plants. Somatic hybridization was confirmed by leaf morphology evaluation, chromosome counting, and randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analyses. Somatic hybrids may combine complementary characteristics from both parental sources and have potential for tolerance to blight and citrus tristeza virus (CTV).
20541047|The influence of flask sealing on eggplant morphogenic responses and morpho-anatomical characteristics was evaluated. Eggplant seeds from the cultivar Embu were disinfected and inoculated in MS medium supplemented with B vitamins, 0.55 mM myo-inositol, 2% (w/v) sucrose, and 0.65% (w/v) agar. NAA (53.7 M) and IAA (0.57 M) were added to the medium to elicit morphogenic responses from cotyledon and hypocotyl explants via somatic embryogenesis and organogenesis, respectively. The plates were sealed with Micropore 3M, Parafilm, or polyvinyl chloride (PVC) film. The effect of glass vessel capping on morphogenesis was also evaluated for shoot apexes inoculated on medium containing half-strength MS where the capping consisted of polypropylene lids with or without two vents (0.45-m MilliSeal air vent) and PVC film. Leaf histological analysis and leaf bleaching from each treatment were performed. No significant differences were observed in the number of embryos and root primordia in media containing either 53.7 M NAA or 0.57 M IAA. However, embryogenic calli fresh weight was higher for PVC and Parafilm. Morphogenesis from the shoot apex was influenced, except the plant height. Plants maintained in glass flasks capped with vented lids showed more vigorous growth and differentiated anatomical structures compared to plants under other treatments. This treatment resulted in more expanded leaves, wider stems, and higher dry and fresh weights. In all treatments, the number of stomata was higher in the abaxial surfaces of leaves. Our results indicate that the flasks with vents provided air exchange beneficial for plant morphogenesis.
4293899|The photosynthetic capacity changes and the main enzymatic systems related to carbon metabolism were investigated during the in vitro culture of plantain shoots (Musa AAB cv. CEMSA 3/4) in temporary immersion bioreactors (TIB) and their subsequent acclimatization. The maximal rate of photosynthesis (Pn), transpiration, and the activity of the carbon metabolism enzymes phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC), acid invertase (AI), pyruvate kinase (PK) and sucrose phosphate synthase (SPS) were measured every 7d during the 21 d of elongation in TIB, and the following 42 d of acclimatization. Sucrose content in the liquid medium and in the leaves was also determined. The most significant changes in plant growth were observed during acclimatization. During the in vitro stage photosynthesis was limited (
23321151|A procedure for plant regeneration, flower and plant formation from petiolar and inflorescence nodal explants of culantro is described. Leaf petioles were excised from young leaves of non-flowering plants while nodal explants were excised from the inflorescence. Explants were cultured in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium alone or supplemented with 0.5 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 0.9, 1.8, 4.5, or 9 M thidiazuron (TDZ). All explants produced multiple shoots. In addition, nodal explants formed flowers. Shoot number, flower number and shoot length were influenced by TDZ and NAA. Rooted shoots from both types of explants were transferred to soil where plants were successfully established.
23255667|Picrorhiza kurroa Royle ex. Benth. is a medicinal herb of immense therapeutic value with restricted geographic distribution. Efficient plant regeneration via direct organogenesis and Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated genetic transformation was developed for this plant. Multiple shoot bud induction was achieved from leaf explants cultured in Gamborg's B5 medium containing 3% (w/v) sucrose, 3 mg/l kinetin and 1 mg/l indole-3-butyric acid. More than 90% of leaf explants formed shoot buds leading to whole plant regeneration. An Agrobacterium-mediated genetic transformation protocol was developed using A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 harboring binary vector pCAMBIA1302 containing the green fluorescent protein and hygromycin phosphotransferase genes. Leaf explants precultured for 2 d were the most suitable for co-cultivation with Agrobacterium and transformation efficiency was enhanced with 200 M acetosyringone. Putative transformants were selected using media containing 15 mg/l hygromycin. Transformation was verified by detection of the green fluorescent protein using fluorescence microscopy and by polymerase chain reaction. Approximately 56% of the explants were transformed with an average of 3.40.4 transgenic plantlets per explant. An efficient regeneration and transformation protocol thus developed enabling a fresh perspective of metabolic engineering in P. kurroa using an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. This is the first report of direct organogenesis from leaf explants and genetic transformation of P. kurroa.
42568714|A healthy root system is vital for tissue culture plantlet survival and rapid adaptation from the in vitro microenvironment to glasshouse conditions. Optimization of the root induction medium is an effective way to promote root induction and elongation. Levels of three auxins (anaphthaleneacetic acid [NAA], 3-indoleacetic acid [IAA], and 3-indolebutyric acid [IBA]) and copper sulfate (CuSO) have been investigated in a series of experiments with a sorghum inbred line, Tx430. Significant improvement in root proliferation and shoot growth were observed on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 1 mol/L CuSO, mg/L NAA, 1 mg/L IAA, and 1 mg/L IBA. On average, one explant (the original in vzYro-derived shoot) of Tx430 regenerated 56.7 roots, which was 20-fold higher on the optimal medium than on MS control medium. Another tested genotype SA281 showed similar response patterns as Tx430 across media. In addition, 100% of Tx430 and SA281 plantlets originating from the optimized root induction medium all survived after being transferred to potting soil in the glasshouse. The results demonstrate that a combination of auxins (NAA, IAA, and IBA) and CuSO together at optimal concentrations provide additive effects on promoting root proliferation and expiant growth of in vitro sorghum in root induction medium, and subsequently resulted in 100% survival rate of plantlets ex tissue culture. Compared with two published and frequently used root induction media, the optimized medium significantly enhanced root induction and plantlet growth.
4293049|Cotyledonary somatic embryos of Larixx x leptoeuropaea that developed after various maturation times on media containing abscisic acid showed different frequencies of conversion into plants. Drying of these somatic embryos under high relative humidity (RH) before germination improved plantlet recovery and eliminated differences in the performance of somatic embryos matured for different times. However, dehydration of somatic embryos under 98% RH to a water content below that of zygotic embryos excised from mature seeds (0.97 and
4293879|Bioengineering approaches provide unprecedented opportunities for reducing poverty, food insecurity, child malnutrition, and natural resource degradation. Genetic engineering offers outstanding potential to increase the efficiency of crop improvement. Thus agricultural biotechnology could enhance global food production and availability in a sustainable way. Small farmers in developing countries are faced with many problems and constraints which biotechnology may assist. Yet, there are varying levels of opposition to the use of this technology in most countries and it is especially intense in Europe. While there is certain public apprehension with the use of bioengineering in food improvement, the primary hurdles facing this technology are the stringent and burdensome regulatory requirements for commercialization, opposition from the special interest groups, apprehension by the food industry especially with the whole foods, and trade barriers including rigid policies on traceability and labeling. Bioengineered crops such as soybean, maize, cotton, and canola with a few traits have already made a remarkable impact on food production and environmental quality. But, in the developing world, bioengineering of crops such as bananas, cassava, yams, sweet potatoes, sorghum, rice, maize, wheat, millet, and legumes, along with livestock, can clearly contribute to global food security. However, the integration of biotechnology into agricultural research in developing countries faces many challenges which must be addressed: financial, technical, political, environmental, activism, intellectual-property, biosafety, and trade-related issues. To ensure that developing countries can harness the benefit of this technology with minimal problems, concerted efforts must be pursued to create an awareness of its potential benefits and to address the concerns related to its use through dialog among the various stakeholders: policy makers, scientists, trade groups, food industry, consumer organizations, farmer groups, media, and non-governmental organizations. Biotechnology holds great promise as a new tool in the scientific toolkit for generating applied agricultural technologies; however, per se it is not a panacea for the world's problems of hunger and poverty.
4293915| An efficient system to regenerate shoots on excised sepals (calyx) of greenhouse-grown 'Bounty' strawberry (Fragaria x ananassa Duch.) was developed in vitro. Sepal cultures produced multiple buds and shoots without an intermediary callus phase on 2-4 M 1-phenyl-3-(1,2,3-thiadiazol-5-yl) urea (thidiazuron, TDZ)-containing shoot induction medium within 4-5 wk of culture initiation. Young expanding sepals with the adaxial side touching the culture medium and maintained for 14 d in darkness produced the best results. In a second experiment, sepals proved more effective than the leaf discs and petiole segments for regenerating shoots. A third experiment compared the effects of six concentrations of two cytokinins (TDZ at 0, 0.5, 2, and 4 M and zeatin at 2 and 4 M) for elongation of sepal-derived adventitious shoots. The media containing TDZ generally promoted more callus formation and suppressed shoot elongation. TDZ-initiated cultures transferred into the medium containing 2-4 M zeatin, produced usable shoots after one additional subculture. Shoots were rooted in vitro in the same medium used for shoot regeneration, but without any growth regulators. When transferred to potting medium, 85-90% of in vitro plantlets survived. 
4293393|A research program to develop an in vitro culture technique adapted to very immature Phaseolus zygotic embryos indicated that osmolality within young pods in vivo ranged from 580 to 350 mosm during the first 10 d after pollination. Different culture techniques for 2-d-old Phaseolus pods are described using a modified Phillips medium for maturation. The application of high and variable osmolality conditions, similar to what is observed in vivo, during pod culture (1 wk) and before extracting the embryos, gave the best results in terms of ovule and embryo development. To solve contamination problems affecting pod development during these investigations, a sterilizing technique was tested combining various concentrations of polyoxyethylenesorbitan monolaurate (Tween 20) and a broad-spectrum industrial biocide, Plant Preservative Mixture (PPM). The PPM sterilizing method totally eliminated pod contamination and did not affect ovule growth, but significantly reduced the embryo germination rate.
4292928|To quantify the C-metabolism in micropropagated roses, two labeled substrates were tested:
23321164|The biolistic method was used to introduce DNA into cotyledons of Acacia mangium and A. mearnsii. The -glucuronidase gene (gus) and the green fluorescent protein gene (gfp) were tested as reporter genes to study the effects of acceleration pressure and pre- and post-bombardment osmotic treatments. These consisted of incubating the explants in the presence of sucrose, mannitol, and sorbitol for several hours before or after bombardment with microprojectiles. High acceleration pressure slightly enhanced gus expression in both species tissues. Osmotic treatments significantly improved expression of both reporter genes introduced into A. mearnsii cotyledons. The best transient expression was observed in these tissues when they were treated with mannitol and sorbitol (0.3 or 0.4 M each) for 34 h before the bombardment and 3 h afterwards. However, the same treatments did not affect the expression of the gus gene introduced in A. mangium explants.
4293761| An efficient procedure for the in vitro propagation and cryogenic conservation of Syzygium francissi was developed. The maximum number of shoots per explant was obtained on a Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 4.5 M benzyladenine and 0.5 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). The in vitro-propagated shoots produced roots when transferred to MS medium containing IBA, indole-3-acetic acid, or naphthaleneacetic acid at various concentrations. Rooted microshoots were transferred to a coco-peat, perlite, and vermiculite (1:1:1) mixture, and hardened off under greenhouse conditions. Ninety-five percent of rooted shoots successfully acclimatized in the greenhouse. Shoot tips excised from in vitro-grown plants were successfully cryostoraged at - 196C by the encapsulation-dehydration method. A preculture of formed beads on MS medium containing 0.75 M sucrose for 1 d, followed by 6h dehydration (20% moisture content) led to the highest survival rate after cryostorage for 1h. This method is a promising technique for in vitro propagation and cryopreservation of shoot tips from in vitro-grown plantlets of S. francissi germplasm. 
20461555|A procedure for regenerating Zizyphus jujuba Mill. (Chinese date) plante through repetitive somatic embryogenesis (RSE) was developed. Primary somatic embryos were produced from cotyledon-derived cultures of germinated plants in vitro. The highest induction frequency of primary somatic embryogenesis (PSE) was obtained with a combination of 4.52 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 0.49 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), and 0.44 M benzyladenine (BA) (17.4%). These primary somatic embryos were multiplied by RSE on media with different plant growth regulator (PGR) combinations. The highest RSE frequency (51.3%) was obtained with 0.58 M gibberellic acid (GA). However, the highest number (4.4 per primary somatic embryo) of repetitive somatic embryos was obtained with 0.98 M 6-r-r-dimethylallylaminopurine (2-iP). For germination of somatic embryos, different PGRs, cold and desiccation treatments were tested. Desiccation of somatic embryos at 25  1C for 2 wk was the best treatment for germination with epicotyl elongation and root development. Of over 256 plants regenerated, 237 (92.6%) survived.
20064804|One of the most characteristic cell functions in plants is totipotency. Somatic embryogenesis can be regarded as a model system for the investigation of mechanisms of totipotency, because a high frequency and synchronous embryogenic system from single somatic cells has been established in carrot suspension cultures. Four phases are recognized in this process, and several molecular markers, viz. polypeptides, mRNAs, antigens against monoclonal antibodies, can be detected during the expression of totipotency, but they disappear during its loss. Four organ-specific genes have been isolated from hypocotyls and roots by differential screening. They were expressed preferentially after the globular-heart stages of embryogenesis, and were strongly suppressed by auxin. A CEM 1 gene was isolated by differential screening of embryogenic cell clusters. This gene was expressed strongly and transiently during the proglobular and globular stages. The sequence of CEM 1 was found to encode a polypeptide showing high homology to the elongation factor isolated from eucaryotic cells. Thus good progress is being made in understanding the basic mechanisms of somatic embryogenesis.
20461561|Photomixotrophic (Pm) micropropagation systems (ones that use a sugar-containing medium) have been used by many researchers for transplant production of St. John's wort. However, these methods have not yet been adopted for commercial applications, probably due to the low percentage of regeneration in vitro, and a low growth rate after transplanting ex vitro. In contrast, it is well known that the use of a photoautotrophic (Pa) micropropagation system (one that uses sugar-free medium) can promote the growth and improve the quality of plantlets in vitro, and enhance the growth during acclimatization for many plant species. In the current study, leafy nodal cuttings were cultured under Pa conditions and the growth and quality were compared with those cultured under Pm conditions. After 21 d of culture, Pa conditions enhanced the growth and quality of St. John's wort plantlets in vitro, and these plantlets showed faster growth after transplanting ex vitro compared with those cultured under Pm conditions.
4293376|An in vitro culture system was developed for Typhonium flagelliforme using buds from the rhizomes. The mineral salts of four media were tested. These were Murashige and Skoog (MS), Nitsch and Nitsch (NN), Gamborg B5 (GB5) and White (W) of which MS medium was found to be the best medium for in vitro culture of T. flagelliforme. The addition of as low as
29736221|Conditions for obtaining an efficient mass propagation procedure to overcome isolated Taxus baccata embryo dormancy were investigated. The protocol herein described was efficient for overcoming the dormancy of T. baccata isolated embryos under in vitro conditions, enabling the conservation and propagation of this species. T. baccata seeds were unable to germinate directly after collection under in vitro conditions. Very good sterility and germination was achieved by soaking seeds in distilled water at a low temperature (+4C) at least for 48 h instead of leaching them for 7 d under running water, followed by maintaining isolated embryos on the Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) supplemented with 5 g 1 activated charcoal. That treatment allowed one to shorten the time of the experiment and gave almost 100% sterility. The best germination was observed in darkness, but to obtain worthy seedlings, it was necessary to place cultures in a 16-h photoperiod after a 2-wk incubation. There was no significant difference in germination between seeds collected from different populations of Southern Poland.
4293614| Efficient and highly reproducible induction of somatic embryogenesis was obtained in four out of seven selected clones of neem, Azadirachta indica A. Juss. This was achieved either directly from root and nodal explants or indirectly from callus cultures initiated from leaf explants excised from 1-yr-old axenic plants. Direct induction of somatic embryogenesis was achieved both from nodal and root segments within 8 wk of culture on MS1 medium without growth regulators. However, the addition of 2.3-4.5 M thidiazuron and 0.5 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid into the medium were necessary to induce somatic embryogenesis via callus phase from leaf explants. Repetitive embryogenesis was observed within 3-4wk following transfer of somatic embryos to a plant growth regulator-free medium. When somatic embryos of nodal and root segments were left on the induction medium without subculturing, approximately 15% of the somatic embryos developed into whole plantlets after passing through a series of developmental stages. Plantlets thus produced were hardy, lush green, and acclimatized easily under greenhouse conditions. However, somatic embryos derived from leaf explants showed low conversion rates (< 5%). HPLC analysis revealed no detectable levels of azadirachtin in somatic embryos. 
20461674|Sesamum indicum L. was used as an important oil crop in the world. An efficient protocol for in vitro plant regeneration via adventitious shoot formation from deembryonated cotyledon explants isolated from mature seeds of sesame is developed. Optimal medium for direct adventitious shoot formation was Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 22.2 M 6-benzylaminopurin (BA) and 5.7 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Abscisic acid (3.8 M ABA) and AgNO (29.4 M) were effective in enhancing the frequency of adventitious shoot formation. Preculture of cotyledon explants on high sucrose concentration (6-9%) for 2 wk and subsequent transfer to 3% sucrose enhanced the frequency of adventitious shoot induction. Root formation from the adventitious shoots was easily achieved on MS medium containing 2.7 M of -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA). Regenerated plantlets were acclimatized on sand and peat moss (1:1), showing 95% survival with subsequent flowering and seed set. We established the high-frequency plant regeneration via adventitious shoot formation in S. indicum L.
20461549|In vitro techniques have found increasing use in the conservation of threatened plants in recent years and this trend is likely to continue as more species face risk of extinction. The Micropropagation Unit at Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, UK (RBG Kew) has an extensive collection of in vitro plants including many threatened species from throughout the world. The long history of the unit and the range of plants cultured have enabled considerable expertise to be amassed in identifying the problems and developing experimental strategies for propagation and conservation of threatened plants. While a large body of knowledge is available on the in vitro culture of plants, there are limited publications relating to threatened plant conservation. This review highlights the progress in in vitro culture and conservation of threatened plants in the past decade (1995-2005) and suggests future research directions. Works on non-threatened plants are also included wherever methods have applications in rare plant conservation. Recalcitrant plant materials collected from the wild or ex situ collections are difficult to grow in culture. Different methods of sterilization and other treatments to establish clean material for culture initiation are reviewed. Application of different culture methods for multiplication, and use of unconventional materials for rooting and transplantation are reviewed. As the available plant material for culture initiation is scarce and in many cases associated with inherent problems such as low viability and endogenous contamination, reliable protocols on multiplication, rooting, and storage methods are very important. In this context, photoautotrophic micropropagation has the potential for development as a routine method for the in vitro conservation of endangered plants. Long-term storage of material in culture is challenging and the potential applications of cryopreservation are significant in this area. Future conservation biotechnology research and its applications must be aimed at conserving highly threatened, mainly endemic, plants from conservation hotspots.
4293492|This study was conducted to examine the effect of biotin and thiamine concentrations on callus growth and somatic embryogenesis of date palm (Phoenix dactylifera L.). Embryogenic callus derived from offshoot tip explants was cultured on hormone-free MS medium containing biotin at 0, 0.1, 1, or
20461645|An efficient protocol was developed for micropropagation of an economically important timber-yielding multipurpose tree, Pterocarpus marsupium Roxb. Multiple shoots were induced from cotyledonary nodes (CNs) derived from 18-d-old axenic seedlings on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with thidiazuron (TDZ) (0.1-10 M). The highest shoot regeneration frequency (90%) and maximum number (15.20.20) of shoots per explant was recorded on MS medium amended with 0.4 M TDZ. Continuous presence of TDZ inhibited shoot elongation. In the primary medium, TDZ-initiated cultures were transferred to the secondary medium supplemented with another cytokinin, 6-benzyladenine (BA), for shoot growth and elongation. Maximum (90%) shoot elongation with an average shoot length of 5.40.06 cm was observed at 5 M BA. To further enhance the number of shoots per explant, mother tissue was repeatedly subcultured on fresh shoot induction medium after each harvest of newly formed shoots. Thus, by adopting this strategy, an average of 44 shoots per explant could be obtained. About 65% of in vitro regenerated shoots produced a maximum number (4.40.2) of roots per shoot by a two-step culture procedure employing pulse treatment and subsequent transfer of treated shoots to a low concentration of 0.2 M indole-3-butyric acid along with phloroglucinol (3.96 M). The in vitro-raised plantlets were successfully acclimatized first under culture room conditions, then to greenhouse with 70% survival rate.
4293743| Although pineapple plants have been found to produce proteases ex vitro, most of the biotechnological investigations on this crop have been focused on propagation. The procedure involving the use of temporary immersion bioreactors is one of the most outstanding because of its high multiplication rate. We previously recorded specific protease activity in the culture medium during the pre-elongation step of this protocol. Therefore, we decided to modify the culture medium composition of this phase looking for an increase in protease excretion. Four independent experiments were performed to evaluate the effects of different levels of sucrose (0-350.4 mM), inorganic salts [0-200% Murashige and Skoog (MS) salt strength], inositol (0-2.20 mM), and thiamine (0-1.2 M). The following indicators were recorded: shoot fresh mass per bioreactor; and protein concentration, proteolytic activity, and specific protease activity in culture media. Specifie protease activity, the most important indicator recorded, was highest with 262.8 mM sucrose, 100% MS salt strength, 0.3 M thiamine and no inositol. Results shown here demonstrate that conditions adequate for propagation purposes (87.6 mM sucrose, 100% MS salt strength, 0.55 mM inositol, 0.3 M thiamine) are not always adequate for protease excretion. 
20461723|Comparative analysis of zygotic and somatic embryogenesis of Acca sellowiana showed higher amounts of sucrose, fructose, raffinose, and myo-inositol in zygotic embryos at different developmental stages than in corresponding somatic ones. These differences were mostly constant. In general, glucose levels were significantly lower than the other soluble carbohydrates analyzed, showing minor variation in each embryo stage. Despite the presence of sucrose in the culture medium, its levels conspicuously diminished in somatic embryos compared with the zygotic ones. Raffinose enhanced parallel to embryo development, regardless of its zygotic or somatic origin. Analysis of the soluble carbohydrate composition of mature zygotic cotyledon used as explant pointed out fructose, glucose, myoinositol, sucrose, and raffinose as the most important. Similar composition was also found in the corresponding somatic cotyledon. Total soluble carbohydrates varied inversely, decreasing in zygotic embryos and increasing in somatic embryos until the 24th d, at which time they increased rapidly about sixfold in zygotic embryos until the 27th d, a period coinciding with the zygotic proembryos formation. Such condition seems to reflect directly the variation of endogenous sucrose level, mainly because glucose and fructose diminished continuously during this time period. This means that, in terms of soluble sugars, zygotic embryo formation occurred under a situation represented by high sucrose amounts, simultaneously with low fructose and glucose levels, while in contrast, somatic embryo formation took place under an endogenous sugar status characterized by a substantial fructose enhancement. Starch levels increased continuously in zygotic embryos and decreased in somatic ones, the reverse to what was found in fructose variation. Starch accumulation was significantly higher in somatic torpedo and cotyledonary embryos than in the corresponding zygotic ones.
4293047|Embryogenic cultures have been produced for a wide range of conifers and current methods developed for spruce permit the maturation of high quality embryos that can be desiccated and then germinated to form plantlets. Embryogenic suspensions consisting of immature embryos are an excellent source of regenerable protoplasts. This review considers examples of applications of embryogenic suspension cultures for basic studies in three areas of plant cell biology, a) Immunofluorescence studies of microtubules in mitotic spruce cells reveal focused spindle poles at prophase and anaphase, suggesting the presence of microtubule organizing centers (MTOCs). Antibodies known to recognize animal MTOCs do not stain the polar regions but do stain developing kinetochores. b) Embryo-derived protoplasts regenerate directly to somatic embryos. Fluorescence studies of the cytoskeleton in freshly derived protoplasts reveal random cortical microtubules and a fine network of actin filaments. During culture, protoplasts change shape and develop transverse cortical microtubule arrays. Embryonal cells of newly formed embryos possess distinctive arrays of cortical microtubules and networks of fine actin filaments while suspensor cells are characterized by transverse cortical microtubules and longitudinal actin cables, c) Transmission electron microscope studies of endocytosis in spruce protoplasts reveal an endocytotic pathway similar to that described previously for soybean. Uptake results are confirmed using high pressure freeze fixation instead of conventional chemical fixation.
4293168| Peanut seeds germinated on media supplemented with thidiazuron [TDZ: N-phenyl-N'-(1,2,3-thiadiazol-yl)urea], formed somatic embryos at the hypocotyledonary notch region by Day 35 of the culture period. Supplementation of the culture media with proline, thioproline, or glutamine reduced the total number of embryos formed, but the resulting embryos were larger, greener and had a more synchronous development than the regenerants formed on media containing TDZ alone. Analysis of the endogenous amino acid content of the germinating seeds during the induction phase of somatic embryogenesis revealed accumulation of proline to 6% of the dry seed weight. Concurrent with the emergence of the radicle, the proline concentration remained significantly elevated throughout the expression phase of embryogenesis. Several other amino acids including alanine, aspartate, asparagine, glutamate, glutamine, -aminobutyrate (GABA), hydroxyproline, isoleucine, threonine and valine accumulated to peak values approximately 10-fold higher than those of the controls. These results indicate that proline plays a key role in directing the route of TDZ-induced somatic embryogenesis and that TDZ effectively stimulates a cascade of metabolic events resulting in the production of specific metabolites, including amino acids, required for the regenerative process. 
20171634| Procedures for callus induction and subsequent organogenesis in the aquatic plant, water chestnut (Trapa japonica Flerov), were established. Phenolics exuded from explants at the callus-induction stage adversely affect callus growth. For cotyledonary node-derived callus cultured in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (full, half or quarter strength) containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) alone or in combination with benzyladenine (BA), the accumulation of phenolics was reduced and callus induction increased by the addition of 10.8 M phloroglucinol (PG) to the medium. Ascorbic acid was also effective in reducing phenolic accumulation, but less effective for callus induction than PG. Half-strength MS medium supplemented with 2.7 M 2,4-D, 108.0 M casein hydrolyzate, and 10.8 M PG supported maximum callus induction. Plant organogenesis was increased by addition of vitamins (0.27 M biotin and 2.7 M folic acid) to half-strength MS medium supplemented with 0.27 M BA. Many shoots developed from the regenerated nodal shoot explants in liquid half-strength MS salts medium supplemented with 1.08 M BA and 0.27 M naphthaleneacetic acid. Individual shoots were excised and cultured in liquid half-strength MS medium supplemented with 5.4 M IBA and rooted plantlets (108) were transferred and acclimatized in plastic pots. After 3 wk, the plantlets were transplanted in a water chestnut field and the survival rate was 100%. 
4293494|The synchronization of somatic embryo development in embryogenic suspension cultures is a crucial step in taking advantage of somatic embryogenesis for high production potential and reduction of unit cost through automation. In the present study, a synchronous somatic embryogenic system was developed for Fraxinus angustifolia suspension cultures. High cell density, 6-benzyladenine (BA) and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid proved essential for the establishment and maintenance of suspension cultures. Low cell density, BA and 1-naphthaleneacetic acid enhanced somatic embryo development. Cell and cell cluster fractionation by density gradient centrifugation in Ficoll solution proved useful for separation of subpopulations with differing potentials for embryo development. A synchronous development of somatic embryos at high frequency was achieved only from the heaviest cell population.
4292963|Significant progress has been made in development of transgenic plants containing agriculturally useful genes. Concurrent with scientific advances has been development of a regulatory infrastructure within the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) for assessing safety of controlled release of genetically engineered plants into the environment, as well as creation of a food policy by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Field trials and safety assessments of tomato containing an antisense polygalacturonase gene (FLAVR SAVR)[TRADE MARK] tomato) have been conducted. A detailed safety analysis of the kan
4293833|A protocol for micropropagation of Virginia-type peanut plants, an ancient crop of the New World, is reported. This study was conducted to explore the effect of silver nitrate (AgNO
20064954|In vitro rooted grape (Vitis vinifera L.) plantlets (4 or 8 wk from culturing microcuttings) were planted ex vitro in polythene sachets (24  12 cm) filled to one-third their height with planting mixture. The sachets were misted, closed, and incubated at ambient temperature (25-30C) under 16 h photoperiod (
4293772|Successful fundamental or basic research, while being stimulated by applied studies, provides the development of new technologies for the benefit of mankind. Photoautotrophic micropropagation or micropropagation using sugar-free medium is no exception from this generalization. The concept of photoautotrophic micropropagation is derived from research that revealed the relatively high photosynthetic abilities of chlorophyllous cultures such as leafy explants and plantlets in vitro. To meet the ever-increasing demand for quality transplants, the scaling-up of photoautotrophic micropropagation systems, for commercialization, has become necessary. This article reviews the recent advancement in the development and utilization of large culture vessels for photoautotrophic micropropagation with special emphasis on the feasibility of the system for the commercial-scale propagation. The review also includes choices for supporting material, ventilation type, planting density, vessel volume, and vessel sterilization procedure, and problems and solutions to achieve uniform growth in a large culture vessel. A case study of the commercial application of a photoautotrophic micropropagation system using large culture vessels, which recently has been established in Kunming, China, is also presented in this article.
42568816|Dendrocalamus hamiltonii is a giant, evergreen, clumping, multipurpose bamboo with strong culms which are mainly used for construction, handicrafts and fuel. The tender shoots are also used as food. Overexploitation of existing natural stocks coupled with harvesting of culms before seed formation, a long flowering cycle, irregular and poor seed production, short seed viability, seed sterility, limited availability of offsets and rhizomes and seasonal dependence are some of the major bottlenecks in conventional propagation of this species. Therefore, alternative methods like micropropagation can fill the gap in demand and supply of true-to-type planting material. Recently, our micropropagation protocol for rapid multiplication of D. hamiltonii through axillary bud proliferation using nodal expiants from mature culms was standardized, and more than 3,000 plants were transferred to the field. However, somaclonal variations are known to appear in the in vitro-derived clones due to culture-induced stresses. Therefore, the present investigation was conducted to ascertain the effect of the length of in vitro culture age on clonal fidelity of regenerated plants using random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD), inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR), amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) and simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers. The genomic DNA samples (i.e. mother plant, in vitro-raised shoots from the 3rd to 30th passage, and in vitro-raised plants transferred to the field) were subjected to PCR amplification using 90 primer combinations (25 each of RAPD, ISSR and SSR, and 15 AFLP primer combinations) of which 76 (23 RAPD, 24 ISSR, 21 SSR and 8 AFLP) markers showed amplified DNA fragments. The 23 RAPD primers produced 162 distinct amplified DNA fragments from 2 (OPE-5) to 16 (OPE-16) fragments per primer, while 24 ISSR primers produced 181 distinct amplified DNA fragments with an average of 7.5 fragments per primer. The number of bands generated by SSR primers varied from 3 (RM-7 and RM-240) to 14 (RM-44), and the eight combinations of AFLP primers produced 369 distinct and scorable amplified DNA fragments with an average of 46.1 fragments per primer. Appearance of monomorphic bands with all the tested primer combinations confirmed the true-to-type nature of the in vitro clones of D. hamiltonii and hence the suitability of the developed micropropagation protocol for commercial-scale plant production.
4293870|Commercial sugarcane, belonging to the genus Saccharum (Poaceae), is an important industrial crop accounting for nearly 70% of sugar produced worldwide. Compared to other major crops, efforts to improve sugarcane are limited and relatively recent, with the first introduction of interspecific hybrids about 80 yr ago. Progress in traditional breeding of sugarcane, a highly polyploid and frequently aneuploid plant, is impeded by its narrow gene pool, complex genome, poor fertility, and the long breeding/selection cycle. These constraints, however, make sugarcane a good candidate for molecular breeding. In the past decade considerable progress has been made in understanding and manipulating the sugarcane genome using various biotechnological and cell biological approaches. Notable among them are the creation of transgenic plants with improved agronomic or other important traits, advances in genomics and molecular markers, and progress in understanding the molecular aspects of sucrose transport and accumulation. More recently, substantial effort has been directed towards developing sugarcane as a biofactory for high-value products. While these achievements are commendable, a greater understanding of the sugarcane genome, and cell and whole plant physiology, will accelerate the implementation of commercially significant biotechnology outcomes. We anticipate that the rapid advancements in molecular biology and emerging biotechnology innovations would play a significant role in the future sugarcane crop improvement programs and offer many new opportunities to develop it as a new-generation industrial crop.
20064900|The yield of morphologically normal Stage 3 somatic embryos of white spruce [Picea glauca (Moench) Voss], and subsequent germinability, was affected by culture age and use of solid and/or liquid culture growth conditions. Of the conditions that were compared, best results were obtained with cultures up to 3 yr old that had been continuously grown in liquid medium. Such material yielded up to 374 morphologically normal Stage 3 embryos per g f. wt. inoculum, when routinely pretreated using a 1 wk 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid-free period before maturation. By comparison the continual use of solid culture conditions resulted in lower yields (5/g f. wt. inoculum), and the use of solid medium in combination with liquid medium showed a greater affect of age on the production of normal Stage 3 embryos (348/g f. wt. at 1.5 yr down to 19/g f. wt. at 3 yr) over the age range tested. In the absence of culture pretreatment, the oldest liquid cultures yielded only 44 normal Stage 3 embryos/g f. wt. inoculum, and the comparable solid to liquid cultures yielded 1.3/g f. wt. inoculum. The number of aberrant Stage 3 embryos in older cultures was reduced as a result of culture pretreatment; for example, in the oldest liquid cultures these represented 83% of the Stage 3 embryo population without pretreatment and 45% with pretreatment. Normal Stage 3 somatic embryo yield and germination characteristics (radicle and epicotyl development) were informative in distinguishing among the conditions studied. Germination characteristics were especially important when maturation responses were incapable of distinguishing among age classes.
20461756|Asparagus racemosus Willd. is an important medicinal plant of tropical and subtropical India. Its medicinal usage has been reported in the Indian and British Pharmacopoeias and in traditional systems of medicine such as Ayurveda, Unani, and Siddha. The multiple uses of this species have increased its commercial demand, resulting in over-exploitation. Because of destructive harvesting, the natural population of A. racemosus is rapidly disappearing, and it is recognized as 'vulnerable' (Warner et al., Some important medicinal plants of the Western Ghats, India: a profile. International Development Research Centre, Artstock, New Delhi, India, 15 pp, 2001). The development of an efficient micropropagation protocol will play a significant role in meeting the requirements for commercial cultivation, thereby conserving the species in its natural habitat. In the present study, in vitro shoot proliferation was obtained by culturing single node segments in Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium supplemented with 3.69 M 2-isopentyl adenine and 3% sucrose with a multiplication rate of 3.5. For proper root formation, the in vitro-formed shoot clusters were cultured on half strength (major salts reduced to half) MS medium with 1.61 M 1-naphthalene acetic acid, 0.46 M kinetin, 98.91 M adenine sulfate, 500 mg/l malt extract, 198.25 M phloroglucinol, and 3% sucrose. On this medium, 85% rooting was observed within 20 d. Following a simple hardening procedure involving sequential transfer of plants to a greenhouse, polyhouse, and shade net, the tissue-cultured plants were transferred to the field where the survival rate was 100%.
4293274|Cell autonomous anthocyanin pigmentation, produced by the anthocyanin regulatory genes B and C1 controlled by the constitutive CaMV35s promoter (pBC1-7), was used to optimize biolistic gene delivery into embryogenic wheat (Triticum aestivum L. cv 'Chris') scutellum cultures. Intensely pigmented callus cells were observed 24 h postbombardment but these cells did not continue to divide and were developmentally terminal. A population of nonexpressing cells generated transgenic sectors which showed light-dependent anthocyanin pigmentation. Anthocyanin pigmentation was suppressed in regenerating shoot cultures but reverted to light-dependent production in the pericarp of developing seeds. Similarly, following microtargeted gene delivery into apical meristems, anthocyanin production was developmentally suppressed in leaf base meristems but prominent anthocyanin sectors developed in mature tissues beyond this region and persisted throughout leaf growth. In three developmental situations, callus proliferation, plant regeneration, and leaf growth, perpetuation of cells with anthocyanin regulator genes under the control of constitutive promoters was dependent on a higher level of regulation to suppress pigmentation at developmentally sensitive stages of meristematic activity. These findings provide additional evidence that the anthocyanin regulatory genes may be responsive to a variety of developmental and environmental stimuli.
40981330|An efficient micropropagation system for Hylotelephium tatarinowii (Maxim.) H. Ohba, a rare medicinal plant, has been developed. Callus induced from leaf expiants placed onto Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with supplementation of plant growth regulators. When the concentration of 2,4-dicholorophenoxy acetic acid was as high as 2.0 mg l in combination with 0.5 mg l 6-benzylaminopurine (6-BAP), the callus induction rate reached 92.1%. Adventitious shoots were observed on callus exposed to 1.0 mg l 6-BAP, with 81.5% frequency of shoot regeneration after 30 d. Flower buds appeared after subculture. Regenerated shoots could flower normally in vitro. Up to 100% of the regenerated shoots formed complete plantlets on half-strength MS medium without any growth regulator, with an average of 5.9 roots per shoot expiant. Quantitative analysis of flavonoids and rutin showed that the phytochemical profile of callus and regenerated plants was similar to that of wild plants.
29736178|On a worldwide basis, parasitic weeds represent one of the most destructive and intractable problems to agricultural production in both developed and developing countries. About 20 families (3,000-5,000 species) of higher plants are parasitic on the plant kingdom and may cause production losses of 30-80% in staple food and industrial crops on every continent. Compared with the other weeds, parasitic weeds are difficult to control by conventional means because of their life style: Parasites are intimately involved with the host and have so much metabolic overlap with the host that differential treatments are very difficult to develop. In some cases, the parasites are closely associated to the host root, concealed underground, and undiagnosed until they irreversible damage the crop. Several different approaches (cultural, mechanical, chemical, use of resistant varieties, and biological) to control parasitic weeds are currently in use, but are only partially successful. Recent reviews have covered the physiology and interactions between parasitic plants and their hosts, taxonomy, and the biology and classical control of parasitic weeds. The current review will discuss why alternative methods are needed to control parasitic weeds and will summarize conventional and new biotechnology-based control measures against the major world pests Striga, Orobanche, Cuscuta, and mistletoes (Phoradendron and Viscum genera). Effectiveness, advantages and disadvantages, environment safety, and simplicity of these new biotechnological methods will be reviewed.
4293101|Regeneration of several varieties of soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill] by somatic embryogenesis from cultured epicotyls and primary leaves has been demonstrated. Somatic embryogenesis was induced from epicotyls and primary leaves when cotyledon halves with the intact zygotic embryo axes were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
4293588| A highly efficient protocol for callus induction and plant regeneration in Sorghum bicolor was developed by varying the concentrations of copper (0.1, 0.3, 0.5, 0.7, 1, 1.5, 2, 5 M) in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium. The mature embryos of Sorghum bicolor were cultured on MS medium containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (9 M), kinetin (2.3 M), and 3% (w/v) sucrose for embryogenic callus induction. Plant regeneration from this callus occurred on MS medium containing kinetin (9.2 M) and indole-3-acetic acid (2.85 M). A much greater response was noted on these media with higher levels of copper. Frequency of plant regeneration and number of regenerants dramatically increased with an optimal amount of copper (2 M) in the MS medium. Rooting of the regenerated shoots readily occurred on half-strength MS medium supplemented with -naphthaleneacetic acid (10.7 M) and 3% (w/v) sucrose. Well-developed plantlets were transferred to the field where 100% survival and normal seed setting was noted. 
4293231|Cotyledon expiants of Panax ginseng at various developmental stages were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with
4293125|Hypocotyl and leaf expiants from Passiflora edulis F. flavicarpa were evaluated for morphogenesis when cultured on several nutrient media supplemented with benzyladenine and indoleacetic acid. The effect of silver thiosulfate on growth-regulator-induced morphogenesis was also investigated. Murashige and Skoog medium was more effective than woody plant medium in promoting adventitious bud differentiation. The omission of ammonium or nitrate from the Murashige and Skoog medium and a disequilibrium from the Murashige and Skoog nitrate:ammonium ratio drastically reduced the bud-forming capacity of the expiants. The inclusion of silver thiosulfate in the culture medium significantly increased the differentiation and development of adventitious shoots. Regenerated shoots were excised and induced to root on basal Murashige and Skoog medium. Plants were transplanted to pots and grown ex vitro.
4293027|Tumors on both animals and plants arise as a result of loss of growth control, and in animal systems have been a source of many insights into regulatory mechanisms. We have attempted to develop a similar paradigm in plants by using ionizing radiation to induce tumors in Arabidopsis thaliana. From the primary tumors we have established a number of hormone autonomous tissue lines in culture which present a variety of phenotypes: leafy, rooty, and undifferentiated. These lines also differ from one another in their hormone content and in their response to exogenous hormones. Some tumor tissue lines have higher levels of free or conjugated auxin or cytokinin, whereas others do not. Some lines show the same growth response as normal callus when hormones are supplied in the growth medium, whereas others have increased or decreased sensitivity to hormones. Using subtraction hybridization, we have identified a number of cDNAs whose expression is enhanced in the tumors compared with hormone-dependent callus. Several of these cDNAs have been identified by homology with sequences in Genbank, and include a membrane channel protein, a lipid transfer protein and hydroxyproline- and glycine-rich proteins. The expression of these relatively abundant proteins may well be a consequence rather than a cause of tumorigenicity. Some of the less abundant transcripts remain unidentified. Two of the tumors described have shown secondary changes in culture, leading to faster-growing cell lines. In one case this was associated with an increase in free indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), a reduction in IAA conjugates and an increased sensitivity to naphthylphthalamic acid. In a second instance, the primary tumor had increased levels of cytokinin but was cytokinin insensitive while the fast-growing variants retained high cytokinin levels, had become cytokinin sensitive and acquired a shooty phenotype. Ways in which this approach to understanding plant hormones and growth control may be developed are discussed.
20064859|Haploid cells derived from the female gametophyte of Taxus brevifolia produce multinucleate egglike cells that have grown as cell suspensions over a 5-yr period. Two new media are formulated, one without nitrates, to select for haploid cell lines and to enhance free taxane production when cell lines are artificially aged by withholding subculture. The cell suspensions produce bound taxanes that are detectable with anti-taxane monoclonal antibodies on cell surfaces and on particles released into the culture medium. Recovery and detection of bound taxanes are based on a competitive inhibition enzyme immunoassay (CIEIA). Tissues extracted exhaustively with methanol then treated with xylanase release CIEIA-detectable taxanes. Approximately 300% more taxanes were detected in the xylanase-treated tissue culture material versus the control. Wood (winter bark) taken from T. brevifolia and treated in the same way with xylanase released 20% more taxanes than could be detected in the control.
4293829|The highest percentage of shoot regeneration of Costus speciosus was achieved using thin rhizome sections and triacontanol (TRIA). Factors affecting the rate of shoot multiplication and rooting with TRIA have been investigated. Initiation of shoot buds was observed when rhizome thin sections were cultured on B
20461673|In Japanese larch (Larix leptolepis Gordon), a well-developed suspensor forms during somatic embryogenesis. The suspensor is the essential tissue for development of the embryo proper. In high-cell-density culture, the embryogenic cells proliferate, but no somatic embryos form because suspensor development is suppressed. Previously, we identified vanillyl benzyl ether (VBE) as a novel factor suppressing suspensor development from the high-cell-density conditioned medium (HCM), but the inhibitory effect of VBE was weaker than that of HCM added. Therefore, this study attempted to identify another inhibitory factor in the culture medium. Induction of somatic embryos was performed in a medium containing both VBE and a fraction of each chromatogram extracted from the culture medium. Results of the bioassay showed that a fraction had strong inhibitory activity with VBE, but weak activity without it. By physicochemical analyses of the fraction, 4-[(phenylmethoxy)methyl]phenol was identified as an inhibitory factor of larch somatic embryogenesis.
4293562|Two commercial wheat cultivars with low embryogenesis efficiencies, AC Karma and Hy417, were transformed by the bombardment of isolated scutella with two gene constructs. Three AC Karma plants (433, 436, and 437) carrying plasmid pRC62 containing a gus:npt fusion gene, and one Hy417 plant (438) carrying plasmid pBARGUS containing a bar gene and a gusA gene were recovered and characterized. Presence of transgenes in TO and T1 plants was confirmed by both PCR and Southern hybridization. Copy number of transgenes varied from one to six in these four plants. The inheritance of transgenes in the progeny was characterized. The gusA gene and its activity in AC Karma plant 436 and bar gene and its activity in Hy417 plant 438 segregated in the selfed T1 progeny in a Mendelian 3:1 ratio, but gusA gene and its activity in AC Karma plants 433 and 437 segregated in selfed T1 progeny in a non-Mendelian 1:1 ratio. The gusA activity in all three AC Karma plants was stably transmitted to selfed T2 or T3 progenies. The levels of gusA and nptII activities in nine T1 plants from AC Karma plant 437 were also determined. A GusA fluorometric assay indicated that gusA activity in the nine Tl plants increased by 2.5-7.2-fold compared with the nontransformed control, while an Nptll ELISA assay detected nptll activity only in two of the nine Tl plants, suggesting the nptll gene was silenced in the other seven Tl plants.
29736170|A morphological variant obtained from in vitro corm-derived plants of banana (Musa sp.) cv. Grande Naine (AAA) was evaluated up to harvest, and the genetic basis of variation was confirmed by the random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD). The corms formed during the multiplication phase of shoot tip-derived cultures of the cv. Grande Naine grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium enriched with 13.3 M N-benzyladenine (BA) developed numerous morphological variants after transfer to MS medium with 6.66 M BA. The variant designated as CUDBT-B1, with distinct morphological features, was further evaluated. The morphological features of CUDBT-B1 were variegated leaf, pseudostem, bracts, ovary of the male flower and fruits, reduced height, decreased lamina length and breadth, and early flowering. These features were also manifested in the second-cycle progeny of CUDBT-B1. RAPD assay showed a marker DNA band of 1650 bp, and differential band intensity between the CUDBT-B1 and normal clone. CUDBT-B1 was multiplied using shoot tip culture, and the shoots were rooted on half-strength MS medium supplemented with 2.69 M -naphthaleneacetic acid. All plantlets showed variegated leaves under field conditions.
4293460|Changes in pyrimidine metabolism were investigated in germinating white spruce somatic embryos by following the metabolic fate of
4293819|Coconut (Cocos nucifera L.) plantlets grown in vitro often grow slowly when transferred to the field possibly, due to a limited photosynthetic capacity of in vitro-cultured plantlets, apparently caused by the sucrose added to growth medium causing negative feedback for photosynthesis. In this paper, we tested the hypothesis that high exogenous sucrose will decrease ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (Rubisco) activity and photosynthesis resulting in limited ex vitro growth. Plantlets grown with high exogenous sucrose (
4293438| A protocol for in vitro propagation of Bixa orellana is described. Plants were regenerated from shoot apex and nodal explants on B5 medium supplemented with 4.9 M 2-isopentenyl adenine. The multiplication factor of shoot apex explants was higher (nine shoots per explant) than that of the nodal explants (five shoots per explant). Regardless of the position of the nodes, all the nodal explants gave similar responses. However, the size of the nodal explant was an important factor in producing multiple shoots: 0.5 cm nodal explants produced the maximum multiple shoots. Regenerated shoots from shoot apex explants rooted best on MS medium supplemented with 0.05 M -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA), whereas shoots regenerated from nodal explants needed 2.7 M NAA for rooting. Eighty per cent survival of in vivo transferred plants occurred on the best potting substrate, coco peat. Since the multiplication factor was nine per explant, this protocol can be used for commercial microprogation. However, the regeneration capacity declined after 10 subcultures. Approximately, 3350 rooted plants could be generated in 10 mo. after eight subcultures, from one shoot with a shoot apex and four nodes. 
4293697|Hydrastis canadensis L. (Goldenseal) is an endangered medicinal plant used in the treatment of many ailments, such as gastrointestinal disturbances, urinary disorders, hemorrhage, skin, mouth and eye infections, and inflammation. Commercial preparations of wild-harvested goldenseal were found to contain heavy metal contaminants including aluminum (
42568436|We developed an efficient and simple system for inducing somatic embryogenesis and regenerating plantlets from mature zygotic embryos of oil palm. Embryogenie calli were induced from mature zygotic embryos of oil palm on modified Murashige and Skoog medium with 2,4-dichloro-phenoxyacetic acid or picloram, alone or in combination with activated charcoal. The greatest frequency of embryogenie callus induction (97.5%) was obtained by culturing mature zygotic embryos on callus induction medium with M picloram and 2.5 gL- activated charcoal. Embryogenie calli proliferated on a medium with a reduced concentration of picloram. Embryogenie calli were then subcultured on a medium supplemented with 12.3 M 2-isopentenyladenine and 0.54 M naphthaleneacetic acid, with subcultures at 4-wk intervals. Somatic embryos were regenerated on a medium with Murashige and Skoog macro-and micronutrients at halfstrength concentrations supplemented with 20 g L- sucrose, 2.5 gL- activated charcoal, and 2.5 gL- Phytagel. Detailed histological analysis revealed that somatic embryogenesis followed an indirect pathway. Primary calli were observed after 4-6 wk of culture and progressed to embryogenie calli at 12 wk. Embryogenie cells exhibited dense protoplasm, a high nucleoplasmic ratio, and small starch grains. Proembryos, which seemed to have a multicellular origin, formed after 16-20 wk of culture and successive cell divisions. Differentiated somatic embryos had a haustorium, a plumule, and the first and second foliar sheaths. In differentiated embryos, the radicular protrusion was not apparent because it generally does not appear until after the first true leaves emerge.
25623006|Rice tungro disease (RTD), caused by the coinfection of rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) and rice tungro spherical virus, is one of the most important viral disease of rice in South and Southeast Asia. The disease remains one of the major threats to sustainable rice production in many countries. The lack of resistance genes to RTBVthe causal agent of tungro diseasemakes it even more difficult to manage RTD. In this review, we summarize previous and current research efforts to genetically engineer rice in order to increase the crop's resistance to tungro disease, including the use of pathogen-derived resistance and of host genes that confer RTD resistance and/or that restrict feeding by the insect vector. The prospects of developing rice cultivars with durable resistance to RTD are also discussed.
20541039|Biomass has gained prominence in the last few years as one of the most important renewable energy sources. In Brazil, a sugarcane ethanol program called ProAlcohol was designed to supply the liquid gasoline substitution and has been running for the last 30 yr. The federal government's establishment of ProAlcohol in 1975 created the grounds for the development of a sugarcane industry that currently is one of the most efficient systems for the conversion of photosynthate into different forms of energy. Improvement of industrial processes along with strong sugarcane breeding programs brought technologies that currently support a cropland of 7 million hectares of sugarcane with an average yield of 75 tons/ha. From the beginning of ProAlcohol to the present time, ethanol yield has grown from 2,500 to around 7,000 l/ha. New technologies for energy production from crushed sugarcane stalk are currently supplying 15% of the electricity needs of the country. Projections show that sugarcane could supply over 30% of Brazil's energy needs by 2020. In this review, we briefly describe some historic facts of the ethanol industry, the role of sugarcane breeding, and the prospects of sugarcane biotechnology.
25623007|An efficient organogenesis and micropropagation system was developed for in vitro plant regeneration of multiple cultivars of peanut (Arachis hypogaea). The system was used to regenerate plants from nine cultivars: Luhua no. 9, Luhua no. 13, Luhua no. 14, Fenghua no. 1, Fenghua no. 3, Fenghua no. 5, Huayu no. 23, Qinglan no. 2, and Baisha 1016. Epicotyl and embryo axis explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with 33.29-44.39 M 6-benzyladenine (BAP) and 2.15-4.30 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The highest rate of shoot formation was observed in epicotyl explants taken from 4-d-old seedlings (5.11.4 shoots per explant). Optimum shoot development was observed in explants cultured on MS medium containing 4.48 M BAP and 2.89 or 5.78 M gibberellin (GA). Well-developed shoots (3-5 cm high) formed roots after 2 wk on MS medium containing 0-2.69 M NAA. We observed that all multiple shoots formed at the site of epicotyl incision and at the upper end of each section, indicating physiological polarity of shoot formation. The maximum shoot induction rate for Luhua no. 9, Luhua no. 13, Luhua no. 14, Fenghua no. 1, Fenghua no. 3, Fenghua no. 5, Huayu no. 23, Qinglan no. 2, and Baisha 1016 was 60.0%, 83.3%, 80.7%, 91.5%, 86.0%, 59.7%, 75.0%, 67.3%, and 72.7%, respectively. This regeneration system will play a vital role in achieving the genetic improvement of Chinese peanut.
4293939|Jaborandi (Pilocarpus microphyllus) is the only known source of pilocarpine, and although this alkaloid is the only natural compound used to treat glaucoma, very little is known about its metabolism. Calluses obtained from petioles of P. microphyllus leaves were partially immersed in MS (Murashige and Skoog) liquid medium containing different pH levels (4.8, 5.8, and 6.8), nutrient concentration (MS normal basal medium concentration, absence of N, P, and K and three times normal concentrations), histidine and threonine (0.05, 0.15, and 0.75 mM), NaCl (25 and 75 mM) and polyethylene glycol (5 and 15%). Exposure to methyljasmonic acid (MJ) vapor was also investigated. The calluses were subjected to these conditions for 4 and 8d under gentle agitation in the dark. Some calluses were also kept under continuous light. Pilocarpine was identified in the liquid medium by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry. The alkaloid quantifications in the media and cells were carried out by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The calluses maintained in the dark released the greatest quantities of pilocarpine into the medium. Methyljasmonate inhibited the release of pilocarpine in the medium. High pH (6.8), absence and excess of N, excess of P, and 0.75 mM of histidine and threonine induced the highest production of the alkaloid.
29736218|The effect of cobalt chloride, salicylic acid, and silver nitrate for embryogenesis was studied in in vitro cultures of Coffea canephora. Murashige and Skoog (in Physiol. Plant. 15:473-497, 1962) medium containing 20 and 40 M either of cobalt chloride, silver nitrate, or salicylic acid supplemented with 1.1 M N benzyladenine and 2.85 M indole-3-acetic acid was used for the study. At 20 and 40 M silver nitrate treatment, 35-48% explants responded for embryogenesis, and 387 and 15327 embryos were produced from each callus mass, respectively, whereas only 5% control explants responded on medium devoid of silver nitrate, cobalt chloride, or salicylic acid. Secondary embryogenesis was observed in 70-90% of the explants, and around 100-150 embryos were produced from each explant cultured on a medium containing silver nitrate, and only a 3% response was noticed in control embryo explants. Yellow friable embryogenic calluses were obtained from the cut edges of most of the tissues grown in a medium supplemented with cobal chloride. The results clearly demonstrated that, among the tested ethylene inhibitors, silver nitrate is very effective in reprogramming the cellular machinery toward embryogenesis.
20064803|Transplanting is a necessary operation in transplant production systems. Transplanting operation is labor-intensive and automation can reduce labor costs. Plugs are actively growing young transplants with two well-defined morphologic parts: the stem-leaf portion and the root-growth medium portion. They may be grown in regularly situated cells on traylike containers. This regularity makes plugs suitable for automated transplanting operations. It is, therefore, beneficial for in vitro plant propagation systems to include plugs as intermediate products before they are delivered to the greenhouses. Flexible automation and robotics technologies have been applied to develop a robotic workcell for transplanting plugs from plug trays to growing flats. Main components of the workcell include a robot, an end-effector, and two conveyer belts for transporting trays and flats. The end-effector for extracting, holding, and planting plugs is a "sliding-needles-with-sensor" gripper. The sensor signals the robot to complete a transplanting cycle only when a plug is properly held by the gripper. Systems analysis and computer simulation were conducted to study factors affecting workability and productivity of various workcell designs. These factors included: dimensions and kinematics of the robot and its peripheral equipment, layout and materials flow, fullness of plug trays, and successful extraction rate of plugs. The analysis also indicated that machine vision systems could add valuable capabilities to the workcell, such as robot guidance and plug quality evaluation. Engineering economic analysis was performed to investigate the interaction of workcell technical feasibility and economic viability.
40663761|We previously introduced the bar gene, along with chitinase and AP24 genes, into the pineapple genome.The present report focuses on the evaluation of the first vegetative generation of a transgenic clone containing these genes. Three materials were compared: macropropagated controls (non-transformed), micropropagated controls (nontransformed), and micropropagated transformed plants.From each group, 50% of the plants were sprayed with FINALE  3 mo after the experiment initiation. The characterization was performed after 1 yr of field growth.FINALE  killed all non-transgenic plants. Plants that survived the herbicide application showed 2 n = 50 chromosomes in their roots after 1 yr in the field. Micropropagated transformed plants sprayed with FINALE  did not show phenotype differences from micropropagated transformed plants not sprayed with the herbicide. Between the micropropagated transformed plants sprayed with FINALE and the micropropagated control plants, the following differences were observed: modifications in levels of cell wall-linked, free and total phenolics, and total proteins.Moreover, changes of the fruit mass without crown were also recorded. Between the micropropagated transformed plants sprayed with FINALE  and the macropropagated control plants, levels of chlorophyll b, total chlorophyll pigments, and proteins were different. Furthermore, activities of phenylalanine ammonia-lyase, Superoxide dismutase, and glutamine synthetase were dissimilar. The plant height and diameter, and the crown height were also different. Until now, we have evaluated transformed pineapple plants during hardening and field growth.Although some unexpected variations were recorded, we believe they are not relevant enough to justify rejection of transgenesis as an important tool for pineapple genetic improvement.
20461725|For the mass production of chestnut trees with selected, hybrid, or genetically engineered genotypes, one potentially desirable propagation strategy is based on somatic embryogenesis. Although methods exist for the initiation of embryogenic cultures of Castanea sativa from immature zygotic embryos or leaf explants, the embryos produced have had low rates of conversion into plantlets. This study explored the possible benefits for somatic embryos that have already undergone maturation and cold treatments, of (a) partial slow or fast desiccation, and (b) of the addition of plant growth regulators or glutamine to the germination medium. Germination response was evaluated in terms of both conversions to plantlets and through embryos developing only shoots (shoot germination) that could be rooted following the micropropagation protocols developed for chestnut. Two or 3 wk slow desiccation in sealed empty Petri dishes resulted in a slight reduction in water content that nevertheless increased total potential plant recovery, shoot length, and the number of leaves per plantlet. However, best results were achieved by 2 h fast drying in a laminar flow hood, which reduced embryo moisture content to 57-58% and enhanced the potential plant recovery and quality of regenerated plantlets. Plant yield was also promoted by addition of 0.44 M benzyladenine and 200-438 mg/l of glutamine to the germination medium, and plantlet quality (as evidenced by root, shoot, and leaf growth) by the further addition of 0.49 M indole-3-butyric acid.
40663780|In vitro regeneration of black nightshade (Solatium nigrum L.) plants was achieved through callusmediated shoot organognesis followed by 30 d indoor ex vitro adaptation to nutritional stress under environmental ambience and thereafter 6-d outdoor acclimatization in pots prior to field establishment. Relevant physiological parameters including pigment content, chlorophyll a fluorescence, net photosynthetic rate (P N ), transpiration rate (E), and stomatal conductance (g s ) of in vitro-regenerated plants were investigated during the course of ex vitro adaptation. During the first 4 d of indoor transplantation to potting substrate, there was a marginal reduction in the leaf chlorophyll and carotenoid contents but P N and E were strongly reduced. The stomatal conductance and E/P N ratio were significantly higher in plants up to 20 d of indoor adaptation than those of comparable age grown naturally from seeds. The shape of the OJIP fluorescence transient varied significantly with acclimatization, and the maximum change was observed at 2.0 ms. The 2.0 ms variable fluorescence (Vj), 30 ms relative fluorescence (M), photon trapping probability (TR/Abs), and photosystem II (PSII) trapping rate (TR/RC) showed initial disturbance and subsequent stabilization during 30 d of indoor acclimatization. Energy dissipation (DI/RC) and electron transport probability (ET/TR) showed an initial phase of increase during the 4 d after plants were transplanted outdoors. During the 6-d outdoor acclimatization after transfer of plants to soil, no significant change in total chlorophylls and carotenoids, E, and g s were observed, but P N improved after reduction on the first d. The OJIP-derived parameters experienced change on the first d but were stabilized quickly thereafter. There was no significant difference between outdoor acclimatized plants and those of the seed-grown plants of comparable age with respect to photosynthetic and fluorescence parameters. Direct transfer of plants without indoor acclimatization, however, showed a completely different trend with respect to P N , E, and OJIP fluorescence transients. The bearing of this study on optimizing micropropagation is discussed.
4293273| Nodal segments as well as shoot tips and apical meristems of 2-yr-old "mat" plants (Ilex paraguariensis St. Hil.) were cultured in vitro to establish micropropagation systems. Maximum shoot regeneration was achieved when nodal segments were cultured with 1/4 Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 3% sucrose. We induced roots to differentiate by transferring the regenerated shoots onto the same medium, solidified with 2.5 g Phytagel per l and supplemented with indole-3-butyric acid (7.4 M) and finally transferring shoots to 1/4 MS medium with 3% sucrose and lacking growth regulators. Plants were successfully established in soil. 
4293630|Guar (Cyamopsis tetragonoloba L. Taub) is a drought-tolerant multipurpose cash crop. A rapid regeneration system has been developed for four Indian guar genotypes. Investigations were carried out to assess the effect of different growth regulators and their combinations on a variety of explants such as the embryo, cotyledons, and cotyledonary nodes for shoot morphogenesis. It was established that Murashige and Skoog's culture medium containing 6-benzylaminopurine
40981329|The present study investigated the effect of nitrogen source (NH; NO) at different concentrations on the accumulation of biomass and secondary metabolites in adventitious root cultures of Hypericum perforatum L. Cultures were initiated in shake flasks by using half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with B5 vitamins, 1.0 mg l indole-3-butyric acid, 0.1 mg l kinetin, 3% (w/v) sucrose, and different ratios of ammonium and nitrate (0:30, 5:25, 10:20, 15:15, 20:10, 25:5, and 30:0 mM, using NHCl and KNO). The cultures were maintained in darkness. The medium supplemented with 5:25 (mM) NH/NO resulted in the optimum accumulation of biomass and total phenols and flavonoids. The antioxidant potential of a methanolic extract, measured as the 1, 1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl and 2, 2-azino-bis-(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) radical scavenging activities, of H. perforatum adventitious roots showed that antioxidant activity was high from root extracts that were grown on higher concentrations of NO nitrogen (15, 20, and 25 mM). Further, assessment of hydrogen peroxide (HO) and malondialdehyde content of the root extracts revealed that cultures supplemented with higher levels of NO nitrogen (15-30 mM) were under oxidative stress, which boosted the levels of secondary metabolites in the adventitious roots. These results suggest that optimal adventitious root biomass could be achieved with the supplementation of cultures with 5:25 ratios of MS nitrogen sources.
4293719|For the first time, regenerated plantlets were obtained from immature zygotic embryos of mango (Mangifera indica L.) through direct somatic embryogenesis. Pro-embryogenic mass (PEM)-like structures, which are differentiated as clusters of globular structures, were easily induced directly from the abaxial side of cotyledons from immature fruits, 2.0-3.5 cm diameter by a 2-wk culture period on a modified Murashige and Skoog medium with
4293334|Embryogenic cell lines of Gladiolus were bombarded with the bar-uidA fusion gene under the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter (pDM327) or cobombarded with uidA under the CaMV 35S promoter (pBCG) and bar under the CaMV 35S promoter (pDM307). Over 500 cell lines were isolated for either the fusion gene or cobombarded cells following selection on Murashige and Skoog's medium supplemented with
23326883|Withania somnifera, commonly known as ashwagandha or Indian ginseng, is a valuable medicinal plant, synthesizing a wide array of pharmacologically active secondary metabolites known as withanolides. In this study, we investigated variation among 54 regenerated plants attained through indirect organogenesis from leaf explants. Organogenic calli were induced on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 2 mgl -1 kinetin and 1 mgl -1 indole-3-butyric acid. High-performance liquid chromatography was used for quantitative determination of the major withanolides in the somaclones. One somaclone (WS-R-1) showed significantly higher accumulation of 12-deoxywithastramonolide (WS-12D; 0.516%) compared to the explant donor mother plant (0.002%). The incidence of somaclonal variation at the cytological level was investigated by studying mitosis and meiosis in relation to chromosome number and structural organization. There were no alterations in chromosome phenotypes, somatic chromosome count, or meiotic behavior. Fidelity at genomic level was evaluated by random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analyses, which revealed multiple genetic polymorphisms between the WS-12D over-producing somaclone and the explant donor mother plant. This study demonstrates the capability of inducing chemotypic variability for the development of high-yielding clones due to molecular instability in W. somnifera using an in vitro approach.
4293930| Most published protocols necessitate different media formulations for multistep somatic embryogenesis. This study aims to establish a simple but effective formulation for the regeneration of plantlets of the pharmaceutically active Boesenbergia rotunda (L.) Mansf. Kulturpfl, formerly Boesenbergia/Kaempferia pandurata (Schult), to ensure a superior and consistent supply of materials for commercialization purposes. In this study, a single-medium formulation of Murashige and Skoog (MS) supplemented with 13.54 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) was found to be the only medium out of eight formulations to promote the complete somatic embryogenesis process for the culture of B. rotunda (L.). Callus cultures were initiated from a total of 280 explants of rhizome meristem. The percentage of cultures forming embryogenic callus was 23.3  4.3% on this MS medium augmented by 13.54 M 2,4-D. The best plantlet regeneration rate was attained from the first subcultured callus with a mean of 6.6  0.1 plantlets per 1cm diameter aggregate of callus. Somatic embryogenesis characteristic of monocots was evident from histological studies. The regenerated plantlets have been successfully established in soil. 
20171606| 3-Methyleneoxindole (MO), a metabolite of the plant auxin indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), was more active than IAA in supporting Stage II and III micropropagation of several plant species. In Stage II micropropagation, characterized by the rapid numerical increase of shoots, the optimal IAA concentration was 0.01 mM compared to 0.1 nM MO for most plants. In Stage III micropropagation where auxin is required for the rhizogenic response, 0.1 M MO was more effective than 0.01 mM IAA. Inhibition analysis of plant growth with chlorogenic acid (CGA) suggested an obligatory role for MO in IAA-mediated auxin reactions: CGA, which blocks the enzymatic oxidation of IAA to MO, in vivo, completely abolished IAA's ability to support the growth of explants during micropropagation. In contrast, CGA did not inhibit the auxin activity of MO, the product of the blocked reaction. The growth rate and rooting efficiency of tobacco propagules in Stage III medium was improved substantially if these were first exposed to a high concentration of MO and subsequently transferred to media containing low or no MO. 
4293303| Here we present a routine and efficient protocol for year-round production of fertile transgenic maize plants. Type II callus derived from maize Hi II immature zygotic embryos was transformed using the PDS 1000/He biolistic gun and selected on bialaphos. In an effort to improve the transformation protocol, the effects of gold particle size and callus morphology on transformation efficiency were investigated. Reducing gold particle size from 1.0 mm or 0.6 mm resulted in a significant increase in the rate of recovery of bialaphos-resistant clones from Type II callus. The average transformation efficiency of pre-embryogenic, early embryogenic and late embryogenic callus did not vary significantly. Rates of transformation, regeneration and fertility achieved for Type II callus are summarized and compared to those achieved for greenhouse- and field-derived immature zygotic embryos. 
40981328|This report demonstrates the elicitation effect on growth and stilbene accumulation in cell cultures of Cayratia trifolia (Vitaceae) by an extract of the angiosperm parasite Cuscuta reflexa and salicylic acid in combination with sucrose feeding. Cell cultures of C. trifolia, a tropical liana, were maintained in liquid Murashige and Skoog's basal medium containing 0.25 mg l naphthalene acetic acid, 0.2 mg l kinetin with 3% sucrose and 250 mg l casein hydrolysate. The cells treated with Cuscuta elicitor showed increased polyphenol oxidase activity with increasing concentration of the elicitor, while total phenol content remained almost unchanged. Enhanced yield of stilbenes (~8-fold) was recorded in the cells treated with 200 mg l Cuscuta elicitor for 7 d. Optimum accumulation of stilbenes with a nonsignificant decrease in cell growth as compared with control was recorded with the addition of 3% sucrose on the seventh day of cell culture. Addition of 3% sucrose with salicylic acid at 500 M and Cuscuta extract at 200 mg l on the seventh day enhanced total stilbene yield up to 50.1 mg l which was ~14-fold higher than in content increased ~ 200-fold in such cultures.
20064930|Micropropagation has the potential to quickly introduce selected genotypes of adult Eucalyptus globulus clones and it is now widely used in Portugal as a part of genetic improvement programs. Several clones have been established and multiplied in vitro. The different clones have individual requirements for successful rooting. Rejuvenation was achieved at different periods after culture initiation for the different clones. Subculturing preceding rooting in multiplication medium supplemented with riboflavin and cholene chloride allowed the increase of rooting ability for several clones tested. Removal of boron from the rooting medium increased rooting by 10%. Indolebutyric acid (IBA) dipping before transfer to the rooting medium resulted in a rooting percentage of 80-95% for the best clones tested. Acclimatization was performed without difficulties (90-95% success) and the rooted plants were either planted directly or used as mother plants for further cutting production, depending on the needs. The results described in this paper increase the commercial feasibility of the micropropagation system for E. globulus.
4293760|The effect of ventilation during the multiplication stage on the development of propagules from different clones of jojoba [Simmondsia chinensis (Link) Schneider] was investigated. Variation in the response to ventilation was due to genotype, the extent of ventilation, and to the period of exposure (transfer number). With intermediate ventilation treatments, propagules elongated to a greater extent and produced more dry biomass than propagules grown without ventilation. In the highest ventilation treatment, however, growth parameters were negatively affected. More importantly, propagules grown with moderate ventilation produced more plant material suitable for further multiplication and for the elongation stage than those grown in sealed tubes - the vessels used in our original micropropagation system. In five of the seven clones studied, growth and multiplication rate were decreased by the highest ventilation treatment. Propagules from the second and third multiplication transfers into ventilated vessels became more sensitive to high ventilation. Ambient water loss was slower in propagules produced under ventilation, probably due to smaller stomatal apertures. As a result of improved growth and decreased hyperhydricity by ventilation, the micropropagation protocol should be modified to include Magenta boxes equipped with vented lids as the preferred growing vessels.
4293012|Procedures have been developed for the initiation and long-term maintenance of embryogenic suspension cultures of pickling cucumber (Cucumis sativus) cultivar Endeavor and for the regeneration of normal plantlets. Embryogenic calluses from petiole explants plated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 6-benzylaminopurine (BA), both at 5  M, were used to initiate the embryogenic suspension cultures. Among various growth regulator combinations evaluated for initiation and maintenance of these suspension cultures, only MS medium with 2,4-D and BA, both at 1  M, produced cultures that were yellow, friable, and still regenerable after repeated subculture (every two wk) over a 3- to 15-mo. period. The effects of various concentrations of auxin and cytokinin in the plating medium, the addition of AgNO
41496439|Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, employing direct shoot organogenesis, allows for mature transgenic plants to be obtained quickly (34 mo). In this study, peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) cultivars Florida-07, Georgia Green, Georgia Brown, New Mexico Valencia A, and VC-2 were selected to test their shoot induction response for use in future transformation experiments. Two types of cotyledon expiants were examined, those that previously had an attached embryo axis upon cotyledon separation (explant A) and those that were embryo axis-free upon separation (explant B) Explants were placed onto a shoot induction medium with N-benzyladenine concentrations ranging from 10-80 m for Florida-07, Georgia Green, and VC-2; 10-20 m for Georgia Brown; and 10-640 m for New Mexico Valencia A. Following a 4-wk culture period, expiants were visually rated based on a scale of 1-4, where 1 indicated slight greening, but no growth, and 4 indicated greening, adventitious bud formation, as well as small leaf expansion. A difference in shoot induction was observed for the cotyledon expiants examined (P>t=<0.0001). Explant A had greater shoot induction with a visual rating of 1.8  0.1; expiant had a rating of 1.6  0.1 (P>t-<0.0001). Additionally, cultivars responded to the culture conditions differently (cultivar N-benzyladenine interaction). Georgia Green on 10 M N-benzyladenine produced the most shoot buds (24.6%) and the highest visual rating (2.1), followed by VC-2 on 10 M N-benzyladenine (22.1%, 1.8), New Mexico Valencia A on 640 M N -benzyladenine (21.4%, 1.8), Georgia Brown on 80 M N -benzyladenine (9.0%, 1.7), and Florida-07 on 40 M N -benzyladenine (7.1%, 1.8). Of the tested varieties, Georgia Green, New Mexico Valencia A, and VC-2 were best suited for future transformation experiments based on their shoot bud production.
4293396|This investigation disclosed that evaluation of tissue culture parameters of slowly developing species (e.g. Garcinia mangostana) requires monitoring of treatments through two or more successive, relatively long passages. Two 8-wk passages were necessary to observe differences in phytohormone effects. Photoperiod and temperature effects were not clearly evident until tissues had been cultured through three passages; the optimal photoperiod and temperature for shoot proliferation could not be established until after the fifth passage. Our investigation revealed that no auxin supplementation was necessary for bud primordium differentiation in cotyledon explants or proliferation of regenerated shoots. The optimum
20171635| Nothapodytes foetida (Wight) is a small evergreen tree and the extract from this tree is used to make the antileukaemia and antitumoural compound camptothecin. Due to exploitation of this resource, efficient methods for rapid propagation of N. foetida are highly desirable. Multiple shoots were induced on hypocotyl segments of 20-25-d-old seedlings of N. foetida cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with different concentrations and combinations of cytokinins. The highest shoot multiplication was achieved on MS medium containing thidiazuron (TDZ) at the concentration of 2.2 M. Inhibition of shoot elongation by TDZ was overcome by transferring shoot cultures to medium containing 2.2 M benzylaminopurine which produced healthy shoots after three additional subcultures. The production of shoots was further promoted by repeated subculturing of original explants on fresh multiplication medium after each harvesting of the newly formed shoots. In vitro rooting was best induced (87%) in shoots excised from proliferated shoot cultures on one-fourth MS medium augmented with 5.7 M indole-3-acetic acid and 2.4 M indolebutryic acid (IBA). In vitro-developed shoots were also rooted ex vitro by dipping in 49 M IBA for 10 min. In vitro- and ex vitro-rooted plants were successfully acclimatized and established in greenhouse conditions. 
4293804| Cupressus macrocarpa and C. arizonica were examined for callus and cell culture production in vitro. Both species produced callus on agar-solidified MSCY medium supplemented with vitamins, antioxidants, 0.14 M kinetin (KIN), and 10 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Suspension cultures of both species were established in liquid MSCY medium. Seiridin (SE) and iso-seiridin (ISE), two phytotoxic butenolides produced by Seiridium cardinale, S. cupressi, and S. unicorne, the causal agents of many canker diseases of cypress, were tested on callus or cell suspension cultures. In the medium without other plant growth regulators (PGR), SE promoted cell proliferation of cypress better than ISE, for callus initiation, callus maintenance, and cell suspension cultures. The growth rates of cypress callus tissues and suspension cultures of both cypress species on media containing 50-150 M SE or ISE were measured. At concentrations of 50 M and higher, growth rates increased exponentially with the SE concentration. A comparison with KIN and 2,4-D indicated that 50 M SE promoted growth of callus tissues and cell suspension cultures more than 100 M ISE. SE can also interact with, or counteract, KIN and 2,4-D. It was demonstrated that SE could replace KIN in the medium for C. arizonica. SE could be involved in cell enlargement and proliferation processes. The less susceptible cypress species (C. arizonica) had a higher content of terpenoids than that of the more susceptible species (C. macrocarpa). SE could be a useful tool as a phytohormonal-like regulator to manipulate physiological changes at the cellular level and as an elicitor of sensitivity or tolerance of cypress germplasm to the phytotoxin. 
20461753|Berberis buxifolia Lam., known as "Calafate", is a plant native to Argentina that exhibits antimicrobial activity. This biological activity is attributed to the isoquinoline alkaloid berberine. The aim of this research was to test the antimicrobial properties of different extracts of this species, taking berberine as the reference molecule, and to examine if the expression of bacterial multidrug resistance (MDR) efflux pumps could be responsible for possible resistance mechanisms. To this end, a wild-type and a mutant strain of Staphylococcus aureus with a defective MDR efflux pump were used and the minimum inhibitory concentrations of the extracts were determined. The studies were carried out with infusions of in vivo shoots and "Calafate" commercial tea, as well as with the media derived from shoot cultures incubated with different plant growth regulators (thidiazuron, picloram, and jasmonic acid). As far as antimicrobial activity is concerned, all the extracts tested were significantly more effective than berberine standard. "Calafate" commercial tea and shoot tea had inhibitory concentrations similar to the one observed for ampicillin standard. The media from the shoot cultures, however, were significantly more effective than all the others, particularly the one derived from jasmonic acid, suggesting the presence of compounds that could be acting synergistically with berberine. There were no differences in antimicrobial activity against the wild-type and the mutant S. aureus; no definite conclusions could be drawn concerning the relationship between MDR pumps and possible pathogen resistance to extracts of B. buxifolia.
4293304|An in vitro propagation system was developed for Echinacea purpurea L. (purple coneflower), a medicinal plant commonly used in the treatment of colds, flu and related ailments. Echinacea seeds were found to be contaminated with systemic fungi and therefore an optimized minimal concentration of Plant Preservation Mixture (PPM) was incorporated in the seed germination medium to recover sterile seedlings. Regeneration was induced on petiole explants from 2-month-old sterile seedlings cultured on medium supplemented with benzylaminopurine (BAP) or thidiazuron (TDZ) in combination with indoleacetic acid (IAA). Two distinct forms of regeneration were identified in cultured petiole explants with histological and morphological observations, viz. the direct formation of somatic embryos on the epidermis and the de novo development of shoots from callus tissues formed in subepidermal cell layers. The results of this study have established a micropropagation system for E. purpurea that will provide sterile plant material for further investigations into medicinally active biochemicals and may facilitate mass production of high-quality E. purpurea plants for the commercial market.
4293580| 'Mendocino' oregano (Origanum vulgare x applii) cultivated in Argentina has been subject to progressive yield loss as a consequence of continuous vegetative propagation. A method of reducing damage to the shoot tip during sterilization procedures for micropropagation is proposed. Single shoot cuttings are less sensitive to disinfecting substances than green tips. Meristems taken from young plantlets that grew in vitro produced less oxidation during the culture than those dissected immediately after disinfecting from plants grown in the field. This work describes the effects of the growth regulators benzyladenine (BA) and naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) at various concentrations and combinations on micropropagation of O. vulgare x applii. Treatment with 0.28 M BA and 0.53 M NAA gave greatest efficiency (mean: 22.2 nodes per plantlet). After 60 d 100% of rooted plantlets could be formed per explant under optimum conditions. 
23016698|A protocol for in vitro propagation of the wild germander (Teucrium polium L.) was developed. In vitro plants were developed from ex vitro axillary buds. Then, shoot tips were excised and established on Murashige and Skoog medium. Proliferation of shoots was tested with different levels of 6-furfurylaminopurin, 6-benzyladenine, or thiadiazuron. The highest proliferation of T. polium was obtained when 6-benzyladenine and 6-furfurylaminopurin were used at 2.0 and 1.6 mg 1, respectively. Thiadiazuron gave the lowest response for shoot proliferation. Rooting was experimented at different levels of Indol-3-butric acid, Indol-3-acetic acid, or 1-naphthaleneacetic acid. 1-Naphthaleneacetic was the only growth regulator which promoted root induction. Rooted plants were acclimatized successfully with 75% survival and grown in the greenhouse. In vitro- and in vivo-grown plants were analyzed for essential oil production. In vitro-grown T. polium on MS medium supplemented with 6-benzyladenine and 1-naphthaleneacetic gave higher oil yield than that grown on hormone-free Murashige and Skoog medium. In vivo (wild)-grown T. polium produced different oil yield when collected in different months (April and October). -caryophyllene, used as a marker compound in the essential oil, was identified and quantified by gas chromatography (GC) analysis. Gas chromatography/mass (GC-MS) spectrometry analysis was also used to identify other components of in vitro cultures and to compare with in vivo-grown plants.
42568794|Somatic embryogenesis was induced from stamen filaments and an embryogenic suspension culture was established in the grapevine cultivar Menca using thidiazuron and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Four combinations of each growth regulator were assessed for somatic embryo induction in a basal medium containing Nitsch and Nitsch salts and Murashige and Skoog vitamins, and an embryogenic suspension was established in liquid medium containing 1 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid plus 4.5 M thidiazuron. By using thidiazuron instead of benzyladenine, induction rates were improved over those previously reported for this cultivar and were relatively high compared with previous results in other cultivars. Three combinations of indole-3-acetic acid and benzyladenine and two inoculum levels were tested in a differentiation medium containing activated charcoal. The size of the inoculum affected the developmental stage of the somatic embryos, whereas the type of growth regulator did not. Both the germination and plant conversion rates were high (87.8% and 88.2%, respectively). An analysis of plant ploidy levels by flow cytometry revealed that 5.6% of the somatic embryo-derived plants were tetraploid. The mean nuclear DNA content of the diploid somatic embryo-derived plants was, on average, 6.7% lower than that of diploid field-grown plants, indicating that this protocol produces low levels of somaclonal variation. The results obtained here indicate that such variations in grapevine can occur both through changes in the ploidy level and by loss of genetic material during somatic embryogenesis.
4293468|Phytoremediation, or the use of plants for removal and detoxification of environmental pollutants, has garnered great attention in recent years. This heightened interest is both scientifically, due the fascinating processes utilized by plants for tolerance and removal of harmful compounds, and commercially, as plants represent a more environmentally compatible and less expensive method of site remediation compared to standard approaches. The majority of phytoremediation studies have been with naturally occurring plant species after empirical discovery of their exceptional abilities for such applications. This has led to a growing body of literature and wider acceptance for plants in many aspects of environmental rehabilitation. However, this has occurred with little understanding of their basic biological mechanisms of action or investigation of alternative strategies for enhancing the capabilities of these extraordinary plants. Better understanding of plant physiology, biochemistry and molecular biology in response to specific contaminants is critical for optimization and advancement of phytoremediation. By applying the tools of biotechnology, the potential for plants as an aggressive method of environmental decontamination may be realized. This paper will serve as an introduction to the first Symposium assembled exclusively to review the use of molecular genetic and biotechnological methods for improvement of plants for phytoremediation. After a brief review of the other invited speakers' works (with more extensive papers following), the pioneering work using bacterial genes expressed in plants for removal of mercurial compounds will be surveyed.
42568819|In this study, we compared the evolution of morphological and agronomical characteristics of coconut (Cocos nucifera L.) palms produced from in vitro cultured embryos and from seeds over an 8-yr period. At the end of the second year after planting, the height and root collar diameter of plants originating from in vitro cultured embryos were significantly lower than those originating from seeds. However, palms from both categories had the same number of leaves. When palms originating from in vitro plantlets and from seeds were observed later in their development, they were similar for most morphological characteristics measured, except for minor differences in inflorescence morphology, which were still present 8 yr after planting. The flowering pattern, bunch, and fruit production were similar between the two categories of palms. These results indicate that in vitro culture of zygotic embryos does not adversely affect further development of palms in natural conditions.
23321158|A very rapid and efficient regeneration method of Vigna mungo L. has been established using liquid culture. A highly regenerable explant, viz., young multiple shoots obtained by germinating the seeds in 2 mg l-1 (8.9 M) N6-benzyladenine-supplemented Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium, was used as a source of tissue to initiate the liquid culture. The liquid medium consisted of half-strength B5 or MS salts supplemented with MS organics, -naphthaleneacetic acid (0.1 mg l-1, 0.54 M) and N6-benzyladenine (0.5 mg l-1, 2.2 M). Transferring the growing tissues to fresh medium every third day resulted in ca. 142% increase in the number of shoot buds produced after 24 d. Shoot buds elongated on one-third-strength MS (MS1/3) semisolid medium and plantlets were obtained by transferring the shoots onto MS1/3 semisolid medium supplemented with indolebutyric acid (1 mg l-1, 4.9 M).
4293532|In vitro-cultured cotyledon explants of eggplant (Solanum melongena L.) are capable of producing somatic embryos or shoots, depending on which growth regulators are exogenously applied (auxins versus cytokinins). Rapidly growing suspension cultures were established to model these alternative morphogenetic processes. Clear differences in DNA methylation and gene expression patterns could be detected when suspension cultures grown under different growth regulator regimes were compared by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) or Differential Display analyses. Some of the random genomic clones showing methylation pattern differences, as well as some differentially expressed transcripts were analyzed in detail. One of the genomic clones, SMG56, proved to be the first identified 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) synthase gene in eggplant. From 15 cloned Differential Display fragments two somatic embryogenesis (SME39, SME50) and one organogenesis (SME88) related transcripts were identified.
4293551|The temporary immersion bioreactor has been found to be an important tool for sugarcane micropropagation, allowing higher shoot formation rates and cost reduction. This research was conducted to demonstrate the agricultural value of temporary immersion bioreactor-derived sugarcane plants. The experiment was carried out for about 2 yr to study the field performance of these plants. Two control treatments were also evaluated representing the conventional forms of micro- and macropropagation. Growth of sugarcane stools, first ratoon and the use of micropropagated plants for macropropagation were recorded. Some botanical and chemical characteristics were evaluated. Differences among propagation systems were only found in the first 6 mo. of field growth, regarding the stem length and diameter. Such differences disappeared with the course of the experiment.
4293643|A new utilization of the biolistic gun was developed for the direct introduction of nitrogen-fixing bacteria (Azotobacter vinelandii) into strawberry (Fragaria x ananassa) tissues. This was the first case of using living bacteria as microprojectiles for the bombardment of plant tissues. Bacterial cells, adhered to tungsten particles, were accelerated by a nitrogen-powered device, and delivered into the target leaves and regenerating shoot meristems. The presence of bacteria in the developing strawberry callus tissues and regenerating plants was detected by microscopy, acetylene reduction assay, and selective polymerase chain reaction. Practically, the elaborated method proved to be suitable for the establishment of artificial intercellular associations between nitrogen-fixing bacteria and higher plants.
4293567|Acmella radicans var. radicans propagation was established in vitro. This plant belongs to the Asteraceae from which some species are known for their insecticide, fungicide and antibacterial activity. The complete Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium was the best in assisting seed germination. In order to obtain shoots in vitro, a complete MS medium and half-strength MS medium were assayed with explants from leaves, nodes, and internodes. The best medium for shoot production was the half-strength MS medium with no addition of plant growth regulators, and the highest shoot propagation was from single-node explants. Regeneration of roots on shoot explants in the medium was obtained without the addition of growth regulators. Of the plantlets that were acclimated, 90% of them were obtained from rooted shoots with completely expanded leaves. The alkamide content was evaluated for each tissue and the higher concentration was observed in flower heads. The main alkamides present in the leaves and the flower heads were N-(2-phenylethyl)-2Z,4E-octadienamide and 3-phenyl-N-(2-phenylethyl)-2-propenamide. This study describes the methodology for the establishment and propagation of Acmella radicans in vitro and the evaluation of different tissue alkamide contents in vitro and in the field.
20461691|Centipedegrass (Eremochloa ophiuroides [Munro] Hack.) is an important warm-season turfgrass and pasture grass. To explore the potential use of biotechnical tools in breeding of centipedegrass, we established an efficient plant regeneration system for this species. Four basal media and 24 combinations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 6-benzyladenine (BAP) were examined for their effects on callus induction from mature seed explants. Twenty combinations of naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and BAP were tested for their effect on plant regeneration. Results indicated that Murashige and Skoog basal medium supplemented with 4.5 mg l 2,4-D and 1 mg l BAP was the best medium for callus induction, while the combination of 2 mg l BAP and 1 mg l NAA induced the highest rate of regeneration and development of shoots and roots. This work provides a basis for the breeding of centipedegrass through somaclonal variation and genetic transformation.
20171616|The development of efficient tissue culture systems for cacao holds the potential to contribute to the improvement of this tropical crop by providing a rapid and efficient vegetative propagation system for multiplication of elite genotypes. It may also find application in facilitation of germplasm movement across quarantine borders, enhancement of germplasm conservation via cryo-preservation, and development of genetic transformation systems. Somatic embryogenesis using floral tissue explants was previously the only tissue culture procedure for regeneration of cacao. We report the development of a secondary embryogenesis system utilizing primary somatic embryo cotyledon explants, which results in up to a 30-fold increase in somatic embryo production compared to primary somatic embryogenesis. The influence of genotype on the efficiency of the system was evaluated. To understand the cellular origins and developmental pathways operative in this system, we investigated the morphological changes occurring over time using light and scanning electron microscopy. While primary embryos arise from clusters of cells forming embryonic nodules, secondary embryos arise predominantly from the division of single cells, in a pathway reminiscent of zygotic embryogenesis. These results have important significance to the application of tissue culture to cacao improvement programs.
4293881| The ability to non-destructively visualize transient and stable gene expression has made green fluorescent protein (GFP) a most efficient reporter gene for routine plant transformation studies. We have assessed two fluorescent protein mutants, enhanced GFP (EGFP) and enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP), under the control of the CaMV35S promoter, for their transient expression efficiencies after particle bombardment of embryogenic cultures of the peanut cultivar, Georgia Green. A third construct (p524EGFP.1) that expressed EGFP from a double 35S promoter with an AMV enhancer sequence also was compared. The brightest and most dense fluorescent signals observed during transient expression were from p524EGFP.1 and EYFP. Optimized bombardment conditions consisted of 0.6 m diameter gold particles, 12 410 kPa bombardment pressure, 95 kPa vacuum pressure, and pretreatment with 0.4 M mannitol. Bombardments with p524EGFP.1 produced tissue sectors expressing GFP that could be visually selected under the fluorescence microscope over multiple subcultures. Embryogenic lines selected for GFP expression initially may have been chimeric since quantitative analysis of expression sometimes showed an increase when GFP-expressing lines, that also contained a hygromycin-resistance gene, subsequently were cultured on hygromycin. Transformed peanut plants expressing GFP were obtained from lines selected either visually or on hygromycin. Integration of the gfp gene in the genomic DNA of regenerated plants was confirmed by Southern blot hybridization and transmission to progeny. 
4293458|An efficient and simple plant regeneration system via organogenesis from leaf segments of persimmon (Diospyros kaki Thunb.) cultivars 'Fuyu' and 'Nishimurawase' has been developed. The regeneration capacity was influenced by the culture vessels, gelling agents, plant growth regulators, and light conditions. Leaf explants taken from in vitro shoots were cultured on a modified Murashige and Skoog medium (MS1/2N) for 16 wk without transfer to fresh medium. Adventitious shoots appeared after 4 and 8 wk in culture of 'Nishimurawase' and 'Fuyu' tissues, respectively. The culture of leaf explants in Erlenmeyer flasks with medium containing
4293336|Cell masses of Araucaria angustifolia cultured in LP liquid medium showed different uptake and utilization patterns for different sugars. Fructose was slowly utilized by cell growth during the lag phase. After this lag period, fructose concentration decreased quickly, corresponding to the start of linear growth. Glucose rapidly decreased following fructose depletion. The level of extracellular proteins in the culture medium increased for the first 5 d after cell inoculation, during the transition from the lag phase to the high-growth phase. The pH of the medium decreased through the first half of the culture period (4.94) and increased (5.6) thereafter. Proembryos originated from a single cell, without a cleavage process. Suspensor cells and proembryonal groups developed independently. Only embryogenic cells divided and formed a suspensor or a proembryo group, which differentiated further along the longitudinal axis. The pathway observed for proembryo formation in Araucaria differs from the model proposed for other conifers, which show cleavage polyembryony.
40981342|Acanthostachys strobilacea (Schult, f.) Klotzsch is an ornamental species of Bromeliaceae that may show an elongated stem when cultivated in vitro. This work reports a micropropagation protocol for A. strobilacea using nodal segments. Seeds were placed in Murashige and Skoog's medium with macronutrients diluted to 1/5. Nodal segments isolated from the stems of in vitro elongated plants were subcultured in the same medium and kept in different light intensities (14, 41, and 50 molms) or continuous darkness. Another group of nodes was subcultured according to the position in the mother seedling. The plants that showed the most stem elongation were those that were cultured in 14 molms or that came from isolated nodal segments in the median and basal regions of the mother plant. After 2 mo, all of the plants originating from the development of lateral buds were transferred to a greenhouse. Only those that were not elongated survived ex vitro and flowered after 1 yr.
4293139|Genetic control of differentiation processes in radish was studied in vitro on the level of morphogenic capacities of explants. We have shown that when cultured on hormone-free MS medium (Murashige and Skoog, 1962), isolated radish cotyledons can produce callus and/or roots. At the same time, excised seedling apices placed on MS medium supplied with exogenous cytokinin can form multiple shoots or crop-root-like structures. In our model, the ability of explants to undergo the above morphogenic events in culture under certain in vitro conditions was examined as a genetic marker. As forms tested, highly inbred radish lines maintained by tight inbreeding for 28-34 generations were used. We have shown that ability of excised cotyledons to produce callus is controlled by a single gene, while their root-producing capacity is under di-genic control with some additional influence of the cytoplasm. Analysis of inheritance of seedling apex capacity to produce crop-root-like structures in response to exogenous cytokinin led us to propose the interaction of three genes in control of this trait.
41432444|North American ginseng (NAG) (Panax quinquefolius L.) is a medicinally important plant with multiple uses in the natural health product industry. As seed propagation is time-consuming because of the slow growth cycle of the plant, in vitro propagation using a bioreactor system was evaluated as an effective approach to accelerate plant production. An efficient method was developed to multiply nodal expiants of NAG using liquid-culture medium and a simple temporary immersion culture vessel.The effects of plant growth regulators, phenolics, and chemical additives (activated charcoal, melatonin, polyvinylpolypyrrolidone, and ascorbic acid) were evaluated on in vitro-grown NAG plants. The highest number (12) of shoots per single node was induced in half-strength Schenk and Hildebrandt basal medium containing 2.5 mg/1 kinetin, in which 81% of the cultured nodes responded. In a culture medium with 0.5 mg/1 -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA), roots were induced in 78% of the expiants compared to 50% with a medium containing indole-3-acetic acid. All of the resulting plants appeared phenotypically normal, and 93% of the rooted plants were established in the greenhouse.Phenolic production increased significantly (P< 0.05) over a 4-wk culture period with a negative impact on growth and proliferation. Activated charcoal (AC; 50 mg/1) significantly reduced total phenolic content and was the most effective treatment for increasing shoot proliferation. Shoot production increased as the phenolic content of the cultures decreased. The most effective treatment for NAG development from cultured nodal expiants in the bioreactor was 2.5 mg/1 kinetin, 0.5 mg/1 NAA, and 50 mg/1 AC in liquid culture medium. This protocol may be useful in providing NAG tissues or plants for a range of ginseng-based natural health products.
4293600|Peroxidase activity was measured in Betula pendula and a time-course curve of activity was used to establish a predictive marker of root induction. Results obtained indicate that the root induction phase terminates after 9h. The findings are discussed in light of the hypothesis of the coincidence of peak auxin levels and termination of root induction.
20171603| This study presents the first comparative analysis of the effect of four different cytokinins, applied to different lentil (Lens culinaris Medik.) explants in four different concentrations, with regard to the regeneration of shoots and roots of the pulse crop. The variables explant, phytohormone and concentration were all found to be highly significant. Mature seed explants showed the highest shoot regeneration over all the phytohormones and concentrations tested. Thidiazuron (TDZ) and benzyladenine (BA) showed a higher number of regenerated shoots than kinetin (KIN) and zeatin (ZEA); an increase from 1.25 M to 10 M of any cytokinin in general doubled the number of shoots regenerated. The average length of regenerated shoots was found to be inversely proportional to the number of shoots regenerated. TDZ and BA were found to inhibit root development more than KIN and ZEA. The highest root regeneration frequency was obtained from shoots regenerated on media containing 1.25 M ZEA. The study concludes that in order to obtain whole plants it is best to regenerate shoots on media containing the cytokinins KIN or ZEA at low concentrations, in order to be able subsequently to regenerate roots. 
4293940|In vitro methods were applied to the only remaining plant of the Meelup Mallee (Eucalyptus phylacis), a critically endangered species from the southwest of Western Australia. Shoot explants were initiated into culture using a 1/2 MS [Murashige and Skoog basal medium (BM) for all experiments] liquid medium supplemented with 1% (w/v) activated charcoal, which was replenished twice daily, followed by transfer of explants to agar medium supplemented with
4292959|This report describes a protocol for regeneration of Brassica nigra in vitro from unorganized callus to a highly differentiated stage of flowering. Callus is initiated from seedling hypocotyl, and root expiants and plantlets are obtained via somatic embryogenesis. Shoot cultures can be established from these plantlets. These shoots can either be induced to flower in vitro or rooted to produce plants which flower ex vitro. Each stage of development is marked with a specific growth regulator requirement. This has potential as a model system to understand the cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in morphogenesis, and it can be used to understand the mechanism of change of phase from vegetative to reproductive. An advantage of this system is that in vitro flowering can be obtained repeatedly in the shoots raised from the axillary buds of the flowering shoots. The protocol can also be used to procure B. nigra gametes under aseptic condition.
20461575|Indirect organogenesis was developed in Agave tequilana. Leaf segments and meristematic tissue from the central head ('pia') were evaluated as explant sources. A minimal-sized explant with high bud-forming capacity (19.5 BFC) was obtained through a cross section of meristematic tissue from in vitro plantlets. In callus culture, the best growth response was due to naphthalene acetic-acid (NAA) presenting a contrasting response compared to 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Regeneration from meristem segments and callus was obtained using 1.1 M 2,4-D and 44 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA). The regeneration capacity of callus was maintained for 3 mo. Shoots regenerated were rooted in a hormone-free MS1 medium and acclimatized in a greenhouse with a 100% survival.
4293469|During the past 6 years, my research group has been trying to unravel the molecular genetic basis of nickel hyperaccumulation in Thlaspi. Our long-term goal is to use the genes we identify to genetically engineer plants ideally suited for phytoremediation (Salt et al., 1998). This investigation has taken us on a journey with many twists, turns, dead ends, and through many types of terrains in the plant physiology landscape. In this short essay, I would like to retrace for you this journey, providing a glimpse of what we feel is now appearing as the essential components of how certain plants hyperaccumulate Ni.
20541029|Corn-based fuel ethanol production processes provide several advantages which could be synergistically applied to overcome limitations of biofuel processes based on lignocellulose. These include resources such as equipment, manpower, nutrients, water, and heat. The fact that several demonstration-scale biomass ethanol processes are using corn as a platform supports this viewpoint. This report summarizes the advantages of first-generation corn-based biofuel processes and then describes the technologies, advantages, and limitations of second-generation lignocellulose-based biofuel systems. This is followed by a discussion of the potential benefit of fully integrating first- and second-generation processes. We conclude with an overview of the technology improvements that are needed to enhance the profitability of biofuel production through development of an integrated biorefinery. A key requirement is creation of industrially robust, multifunctional ethanologens that are engineered for maximum ethanol production from mixed sugars. In addition to ethanol, combined biorefineries could also be the source of valuable co-products, such as chemicals and plastics. However, this will require expression systems that produce high-value co-products. Advantages of this approach are that (1) such strains could be used for bioconversion in any part of the combined biorefinery and (2) using one recombinant organism with many additions should simplify the process of obtaining necessary FDA approval for feed products produced by or containing recombinant organisms.
4293390| Flowers of Aesculus hippocastanum L. are bisexual and zygomorphic, and are positioned on a 20-30 cm long inflorescence. Those located in the basal part of the panicle are female and fertile (segment A), flowers in the middle are bisexual (segment B), and those on top of the panicle are male (segment C). Androgenesis was achieved in anther culture which originated from three types of flowers cultured on modified Murashige and Skoog medium containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (4.5 M) and kinetin (4.6 M). Differences in viability of uninuclear microspores were found between female (90.0%) and other flowers (bisexual 61.1%; male 72.7%). Both the percentage of embryogenic anthers and the number of androgenic embryos formed per inflorescence differed according to the segment of origin. The highest embryogenic response was obtained in segment A (47.3%) and the lowest in segment C (24.1%). A significant difference was found between the number of androgenic embryos formed per inflorescence in segments A (921.0) and C (286.7). The highest germination percentage (21.3%) and plantlet formation (41.0%) were obtained on woody plant WPM liquid medium supplemented with 1% activated charcoal. Acclimation and regeneration were best from plantlets originating from female flowers (62.5%). Plantlets originating from bisexual and male flowers have much poorer survival (29.3 and 22.2%, respectively). 
4293736| The liliaceous perennial plants, Tricyrtis spp., are cultivated as ornamental plants in Japan. Natural populations of several Japanese Tricyrtis spp. are severely threatened by indiscriminate collection and habitat destruction. In this study, a plant regeneration system based on somatic embryogenesis has been developed for efficient clonal propagation of T. hirta, T. hirta var. albescens, T. formosana, T. formosana cv. Fujimusume, T. flava ssp. ohsumiensis, and T. macrantha ssp. macranthopsis. Flower tepal explants of these genotypes were cultured on media containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid (picloram, PIC) alone or in combination with N-(1,2,3-thiadiazol-5-yl)-N''-phenylurea (thidiazuron, TDZ). Calluses induced on media containing 2,4-D produced somatic embryos following their transfer to a plant growth regulator-free medium, indicating that these calluses were embryogenic. A combination of 4.5 M 2,4-D and 0.45 M TDZ was most effective for inducing embryogenic calluses from tepal explants. Among various explant sources, filaments were most suitable for inducing embryogenic calluses on a medium containing 4.5 M 2,4-D and 0.45 M TDZ. Embryogenic calluses were only obtained from filament explants for T. macrantha ssp. macranthopsis. Embryogenic calluses could be maintained by subculturing monthly onto the same medium, and a 1.5-3.5-fold increase in fresh weight was obtained after 1 mo. of subculture. Depending on the plant genotype, 50-500 somatic embryos per 0.5 g fresh weight of embryogenic callus was obtained 1 mo. after transfer to a plant growth regulator-free medium. Most of the embryos developed into plantlets, and they were successfully acclimatized to greenhouse conditions. Regenerated plants showed no alteration in the ploidy level as indicated by chromosome observation and flow cytometric analysis. 
23016610|Pineapple is one of the most important tropical fruits, but the availability of planting material is insufficient to agricultural demands. Therefore, several pineapple micropropagation protocols have been developed. However, acclimatization of in vitro plants continues to take a prolonged period. Biofertilizers have been found as safe alternatives to improve the agricultural performances of many crops. This study highlights some of the effects of the application of Azotobacter chroococcum (INIFAT5 strain) on in vitro pineapple plants during acclimatization. The bacteria were sprayed immediately after transplanting to the ex vitro environment; the plants were then sprayed every 4 wk. A control group of plants was established. Subsequently, after 5 mo, the evaluated variables included fresh and dry plant weight, plant height (cm), and root length (cm). The anatomy of middle-aged leaves and roots was also studied: transversal thickness and width of cuticle, epidermis, hypodermis, aquiferous parenchyma, and photosynthetic parenchyma. Thickness of root exoderm, external cortex, internal cortex, and stele were also evaluated. In general, the INIFAT5 strain improved the plant development. Results showed that the bacteria significantly provoked changes in the plant fresh weight, the thickness of the leaf abaxial and adaxial cuticles, and the root exoderm width. Contrastingly, A. chroococcum did not affect the thickness of the leaf photosynthetic parenchyma.
4293783|In vitro culture of hairy roots of Phyllanthus amarus induced by Agrobacterium rhizogenes was established. Their growth and ability for in vitro inactivation of hepatitis B virus surface antigen was studied and compared with adventitious roots grown in vitro. The selected hairy root clone HR-1 was capable of growing at a very fast rate, and an approximately 900- fold increase in weight of root biomass was achieved after 4 wk of culture in hormone-free quarter-strength liquid Murashige and Skoog medium with continuous agitation. Non-transformed roots cultured in the presence of
20461557|Immature seeds of Garcinia indica Choiss. were excised from immature fruits and cultured on Lloyd and McCown (1980), woody plant medium (WPM) with different combinations of auxins and cytokinins. Somatic embryos were obtained on the media supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine (BA; 2.2-22.1 M) alone or in combination with -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA; 2.6 M) with 80% frequency within a period of 2-3 wk. Subculture of embryos on medium containing BA (16.0 M) supplemented with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA; 2.8-5.7 M) and/or kinetin (4.6 M) gave rise to clusters of secondary somatic embryos along with maturation of primary embryos. In subsequent subculture on hormone-free half-strength WPM, the embryo clusters germinated with an increase in the number of secondary somatic embryos. About 70% of somatic embryos germinated into complete plantlets, which were successfully established under greenhouse conditions.
4293143|An in vitro culture system for direct shoot regeneration from cotyledon explants of rapid-cycling Brassica rapa was developed. Cotyledons from 3-d-old seedlings, when cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 20  M
4292971|Cell suspension cultures of buffelgrass were established from two types of callus, a friable tan callus and a brown gelatinous callus, using Murashige and Skoog medium containing
4293780|The present study aimed to evaluate the response to salinity of Populus euphratica, which is more salt-resistant than other poplar cultivars, at the cellular level. To this purpose, callus was induced from shoot segments of P. euphratica on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
4293859| In vitro adventitious shoot bud regeneration systems are considered most suitable for Agrobacterium- and biolisticsmediated genetic transformation to obtain transgenic plants. In the present investigation, multiple adventitious shoot buds could be induced directly from Feronia limonia hypocotyl explants inoculated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing different growth regulators. During the initial phase, the hypocotyl segments nearer to the cotyledons responded quickly compared to those closer to the root. The response, however, was comparable in both the segments in subsequent subculture. Of the various cytokinins, 2.22 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) proved to be more effective compared to kinetin (Kn). The two-way interaction of BA and Kn significantly influenced shoot regeneration and contributed the most among the interactions studied. The best response, however, was obtained when 2.22 M BA and 2.32 M Kn were combined. Although the effect of auxins like -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) combined with cytokinins evoked a significant response in terms of number of shoot buds, this response did not supersede the effect of combined cytokinins. None of the polyamines tested induced shoot buds on hypocotyl segments. Adventitious shoots were multiplied on MS medium containing 2.22 M BA, 6.96 M Kn, and 0.05 M NAA. More than 60% of the shoots produced roots when cultured on medium containing one-quarter strength MS salts, 1.0% sucrose, 0.6% agar, and 7.36 M indole-3-butyric acid. The adventitious origin of shoot buds showing continuous vascular connections was confirmed through histological investigations. 
4293617| Rapid clonal propagation and encapsulation of in vitro-formed bulbs of Ipsea malabarica (Reichb. f.) J. D. Hook., an endemic and endangered orchid of the Western Ghats of Kerala, and its reintroduction to the natural habitat were accomplished. Rhizome segments of Ipsea cultured on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 6.97 M kinetin induced the highest number of shoots, at the rate of four shoots per explant within 50 d. Transfer of the isolated shoots increased the rate of shoot multiplication to more than 10 shoots. Subsequent culture enhanced the number of shoots. No decline of shoot multiplication was observed up to the 10th subculture. Shoots developed bulbs during culture which developed into rhizomes. Sucrose at 6-8% reduced the time for the development of bulbs and rhizomes. Roots were developed from the base of the developed shoots as well as from the bulbs. Isolation and culture of bulbs also developed 5-10 shoots within 50 d. Encapsulated in vitro-formed bulbs cultured either on hormone-free half-strength MS or 6.97 M kinetin-supplemented medium facilitated 100% conversion. As a step to conservation in situ, 50 plantlets were reintroduced into their natural habitat, i.e. at Vellarimala (at 1300 m height) of the Western Ghats of Kerala, and flowered normally. Development of more than 40 000 plantlets starting from a single explant is possible within 250 d. This threatened endemic orchid stands to benefit greatly from the established protocol and will hopefully curtail the threat of extinction. 
4293845|Although somatic hybridization techniques are being ignored by variety improvement programs for most commodities, their contribution to citrus variety improvement continues to expand and with increasing complexity. Citrus is one of the few commodities where somatic hybridization is reaching its predicted potential, as somatic hybrids are now possible from most desirable parental combinations. Somatic hybrid citrus plants have been produced from more than 250 parental combinations, including more than 130 at the CREC. The CREC hybrids include 34 from sexually compatible intergeneric combinations, 16 from sexually incompatible combinations, and 81 interspecific combinations. The objective of this report is to demonstrate the impact of somatic hybridization on citrus improvement programs, and to discuss its potential with other commodities. For citrus scion improvement, several applications are aimed at the development of improved seedless fresh fruit varieties, and these include symmetric somatic hybridization, haploid + diploid fusion, targeted cybridization to transfer cytoplasmic male sterility (mtCMS) from Satsuma mandarin, and triploidy via interploid crosses using somatic hybrid allotetrapoid breeding parents. For rootstock improvement, symmetric somatic hybridization provides an opportunity to hybridize complementary rootstocks without breaking up successful gene combinations. Rootstock somatic hybridization is providing opportunities for improving disease and insect resistance, soil adaptation, and tree size control. Wide somatic hybridization provides an opportunity for gene transfer from related species, including some that are sexually incompatible. Extensive field research on citrus somatic hybrid rootstocks combined with emerging molecular analyses of citrus has allowed for the development of additional strategies for rootstock improvement. These include rootstock breeding and selection at the tetraploid level using somatic hybrid parents, and the resynthesis of important rootstocks at the tetraploid level via fusion of selected superior parents. Ongoing examples of each strategy will be provided, along with ideas for extending the technology to other commodities.
23016701|Taverniera cuneifolia (Roth) Arn. or Indian licorice is considered to be a substitute for Glycyrrhiza glabra L. owing to an equivalent content of glycyrrhizic acid (GA). GA recognized as the main active ingredient of T. cuneifolia, GA imparts several medicinal properties to these plants. However, research on this plant is scanty with no published record on tissue culture studies. Present study demonstrates a method for (1) induction and successful development of somatic embryos from the root culture, (2) regeneration of plants, and (3) GA production by root cultures of T. cuneifolia. Shoot initiation frequency of cultured roots ranged from 52.57% to 97.71%. Plant regeneration frequency (germination) from somatic embryos was 88.66% in 1/4-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2% sucrose, as against 68% in half 1/2-strength MS containing 2% sucrose. Glycyrrhizic acid of 1.32 mg/gm of dry weight was obtained in full-strength MS medium supplemented with 3% sucrose, through high-performance thin layer chromatography analysis with standard GA in root cultures. The present study provides an efficient method for the mass production of plants from a single mother plant as well as the potential root culture system to study the GA production pathways in T. cuneifolia.
4293118| The effect of the type of gelling agent and of several antibiotics on the adventitious bud regeneration from in vitro leaves was tested on eight pear genotypes. The use of gellan gum (Phytagel) in the medium instead of agar had a very strong positive effect on the rate of adventitious bud regeneration for all pear genotypes tested in this study. This gelling agent induced faster cell divisions than agar, thus more callus was produced on wound sites and subsequently more buds regenerated. Incubation on gellan gum medium during the first 20 d of bud induction was sufficient to induce a stimulatory effect on regeneration and limited the production of hyperhydric buds. In the prospect of Agrobacterium transformation, the effect of several antibiotics was tested. Cefotaxime (200 mg/l) plus ticarcillin/clavulanic acid (100 mg/l) could be used in the culture medium without affecting the frequency of bud regeneration. The inhibition of bud regeneration was obtained with different kanamycin concentrations according to the gelling agent in the medium. On gellan gum medium, a concentration of 100 mg/l of kanamycin was suitable. These conditions can be recommended for experiments on Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of pear, where bacterial inoculation and presence of antibiotics generally reduce and delay bud regeneration. 
23326882|A simple and efficient protocol has been developed for in vitro regeneration of M. acuminata ssp. burmannica (AA) plants. Somatic embryos were produced when immature and mature zygotic embryo explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with plant growth regulators 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid; (2,4-D), picloram or benzyl adenine and indole acetic acid. In general, immature embryos responded better than mature embryos. Callus proliferation was highest in medium supplemented with 2,4-D (4.5 M). Subsequent transfer of callus to fresh medium produced rapidly proliferating embryogenic calli. Embryogenic calli were maintained in complete darkness for 15 d followed by cycles of 8 h dark and 16 h light, under white fluorescent lamps with a light intensity of 3,000 lm/m 2 and at temperature of 282C. Regeneration of embryogenic calli into plantlets was higher for immature embryos (76.6%) than for mature embryos (50.6%). This plant regeneration protocol using mature or immature zygotic embryos, via somatic embryogenesis, has significant potential to improve germination efficiencies of hybrid progenies used in conventional breeding strategies. Furthermore, tests on seed storage showed that seed viability rapidly decline after harvesting and was negligible after 9 mo of storage. This indicates using freshly harvested seeds as explant material is necessary for maximizing the tissue culture response.
4293318|Nearly 30 years ago the conditions for culturing immature cotton ovules were established to serve as a working research tool for investigating the physiology and biochemistry of fiber development. Not only has this tissue culture method been employed to characterize the biochemistry of plant cell expansion and secondary cell wall synthesis, but ovule cultures have contributed to numerous other aspects of plant cell physiology and development as well. In addition to basic studies on fiber development, cotton ovule cultures have been used to examine plant-fungal interactions, to model low temperature stress responses, to elucidate the pathways responsible for pigment formation in naturally pigmented fiber and to probe how cytoskeletal elements regulate cell wall organization. Success in rescuing Gossypium interspecific hybrids was dependent on ovule culture media formulations that could support early embryo development in ovulo. As tissues produced in culture are analyzed by increasingly more sophisticated techniques, there appear to be some differences between ovule growth in planta and ovule growth in vitro. Discerning how ovule culture fiber development is different from fiber development in field-grown plants can contribute valuable information for crop improvement. Cotton ovule cultures are an especially attractive model system for studying the effects of gravity on cell elongation, cellulose biosynthesis and embryo development and are excellent targets for examining transient expression of introduced gene constructs. With only minor modification, the procedure originally described by C. A. Beasley and I. P. Ting for growing cotton ovules in vitro will continue to be a useful research tool for the foreseeable future.
20461751|Somatic embryogenesis is an in vitro clonal propagation method with potential to contribute to the improvement of cacao varieties. Before using this technology for commercial production, it is essential that somatic embryogenesis-derived plants be tested in field conditions. Therefore, we established a field test at Union Vale Estate, Saint Lucia. Thirty- to 50-yr-old trees were selected for clonal propagation as potentially high yielding based on local farmers observations. Clonal plants were propagated in vitro from immature flowers by embryogenesis and micropropagation. Multiple plants from nine genotypes were acclimated to greenhouse conditions then returned to Saint Lucia and planted in a field. Orthotropic rooted cuttings and locally propagated open pollinated seedlings were also planted for a total of 214 trees. Growth data were collected every 4-6 mo. including: stem diameter, stem height, length of the longest jorquette branch, number of jorquette branches, and dates of first flowering and fruiting. At 4.5 yr after planting in the field there were no major differences in all growth parameters among the propagation methods evaluated with exception of the orthotropic rooted cuttings. Trees grown from seeds were slightly taller then trees propagated by the other methods. Trees propagated as orthotropic rooted cuttings exhibited smaller average stem diameters, shorter stem heights to the jorquette, and shorter jorquette branches. We concluded that somatic embryo-derived plants demonstrated normal phenotypes in field conditions and have growth parameters similar to plants propagated by traditional methods.
40663778|An efficient protocol for secondary somatic embryogenesis in camphor tree is reported. Secondary somatic embryos (SSEs), initially obtained from the primary embryos of a nascent embryognie culture in 2002, were proliferated and maintained for more than 4 yr via cyclic secondary somatic embryogenesis. Throughout this period, the embryo populations retained a high level of competence for plant regeneration. SSEs were produced on the surfaces of the cotyledons and radicular ends of maternal somatic embryos (MSEs). Histological observations of the various stages of secondary embryo development revealed four typical stages, namely, globular, heartshaped, torpedo, and cotyledonary. The process of secondary embryogenesis continued in a cyclic way, with each newly formed embryo producing a subsequent generation of secondary embryos. In order to progress developmentally beyond proliferation cycles, cotyledonary embryos from one of embryognie lines (LI4) were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 0.1-3.0 mg 1 abscisic acid (ABA) or 0.05-1.0 mg 1 thidiazuron (TDZ) in darkness for 2 mo to achieve maturation. Matured embryos were then transferred to MS-based germination medium containing either 0.1 mg 1 TDZ, 0.2 mg 1 indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), and 0.5 mg 1 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) or 0.1 mg 1 TDZ and 0.2 mg 1 IBA and were cultured in light for germination. Over 50% of embryos matured in the presence of 0.5 mg 1 ABA were able to germinate with shoots and poor root system. Frequencies of embryos germinating normal shoots among different genotypes did not change significantly. A total of 93% of the shoots from the germinated embryos converted to plantlets on half strength MS medium with 0.5 mg  IBA by 3 wk. Plantlets acclimatized successfully to ex vitro conditions and developed as field-grown plants with normal appearance.
4293798| High-frequency somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration was achieved on callus derived from leaf (petiole and lamina) and internode explants of Centella asiatica L. Growth regulators significantly influenced the frequency of somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration. Calluses developed on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium fortified with 4.52 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or 5.37 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), both with 2.32 M kinetin (Kn), were superior for somatic embryogenesis. Callus developed on NAA and Kn-supplemented medium favored induction and maturation of embryos earlier compared to that on 2,4-D and Kn. Embryogenic callus transferred from NAA and Kn-supplemented medium to suspension cultures of half-strength MS medium with NAA (2.69 M) and Kn (1.16 M) developed a mean of 204.3 somatic embryos per 100 mg of callus. Embryogenic callus transferred from 2,4-D and Kn subsequently to suspension cultures of half-strength MS medium with 2,4-D (0.45 M) and Kn (1.16 M) developed a mean of 303.1 embryos per 100 mg of callus. Eighty-eight percent of the embryos underwent maturation and conversion to plantlets upon transfer to half-strength MS semisolid medium having 0.054 M NAA with either 0.044 M BA or 0.046 M Kn. Embryo-derived plantlets established in field conditions displayed morphological characters identical to those of the parent plant. 
42568818|An effective protocol for protoplast isolation from young leaves and somatic embryogenic cells of species in the Chamelaucium group and the use of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) to enhance protoplast viability are described. Mesophyll protoplasts were isolated from young leaves of a white Geraldton waxflower (Chamelaucium uncinatum) line 583, using a mixture of 1% (w/v) cellulase R10, 0.5% (w/v) macerozyme R10, and 0.1% (w/v) pectolyase. Viability of isolated mesophyll protoplasts increased dramatically when SOD and CAT were added. The highest increase of 7.61-fold in viability and 4.34-fold of viable protoplast yield were achieved when a combination of SOD at 500 units mL and CAT at 2,000 units mL was added to the enzyme mixture. Somatic embryogenic cell-derived protoplasts were isolated from embryogenic suspension cells of C. uncinatum line 583 when 1% (w/v) hemicellulase was added to a combination of 2% (w/v) cellulase R10, and 1% (w/v) macerozyme R10. Addition of SOD at 500 units mL and CAT at 2,000 units mL to the enzyme mixture improved viability only slightly, to above 90%, but improved yield significantly (6.6-fold). This combination of enzymes was also used to isolate protoplasts from embryogenic suspension cells of Chamelaucium repens and from young leaves of C. uncinatum, Actinodium calocephalum, Verticordia etheliana, Verticordia grandis, Verticordia hughanii, and Verticordia mitchelliana successfully with viability >80% and viable yield >710 cells g fresh weight (or per milliliter packed cell volume in the case of suspension cells).
4292984| The production of cotyledonary somatic embryos of white spruce from cultures grown long-term as suspensions was investigated. We report the effects of removal of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) from the maintenance medium (ordinarily containing both 2,4-D and benzyl adenine) before ()-ABA-stimulated maturation. In particular the use of a 1-wk culture period without 2,4-D was found to improve the production of normal-looking cotyledonary somatic embryos. Using high performance liquid chromatography analyses of culture supernatants, it was determined that this affect was not related to altered ABA metabolism. Germination of cotyledonary somatic embryos from cultures pretreated by the 1-wk culture period without 2,4-D was improved compared with similar embryos from cultures that had not been pretreated. 
4293340|A simple, efficient protocol for in vitro micropropagation of guayule is reported. Shoot cultures were maintained on MS (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) medium supplemented with
23016616|Efficient plant regeneration is essential for successful transformation and in vitro polyploidy induction in mulberry. A high frequency (80%) of plant regeneration from hypocotyls occurred under in vitro conditions in mulberry (Morus multicaulis Poir.). We identified three key factors for enhancing successful regeneration based on earlier work: (1) hypocotyl position, (2) the combination and concentration of growth regulators, and (3) the addition of AgNO3. The highest frequency of shoot regeneration was achieved using hypocotyl segments, which are proximal to apical meristems, and the optimal culture conditions were Murashige and Skoog's (MS) (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) basal medium supplemented with 3.0 mg 1 1 6-benzylamino purine, 0.3 mg 1 1 indole-3-acetic acid, 0.1% polyvinypyrrolidone, and 1.0 mg/l silver nitrate (AgNO 3 ) under subdued light at 252C. Treating the shoots with 0.2% colchicine (dipping for 72 h) resulted in a 14% tetraploid frequency, whereas a 20% tetraploid frequency resulted from using a 0.25% colchicine (dripping for 5 d) treatment, as determined by chromosome number counts. The diploid plant chromosome number was 28 (2n=2x=28) and that of tetraploid plants was 56 (2n=4x=56). Regenerated shoots rooted easily in 810 d using half-strength basal MS medium with 0.5 mg 1 1 indole-3-butyric acid and were successfully established in the soil.
40793214|Targeted integration of foreign genes into plant genomes is a much sought-after technology for engineering precise integration structures. Homologous recombinationmediated targeted integration into native genomic sites remained somewhat elusive until made possible by zinc finger nuclease-mediated double-stranded breaks. In the meantime, an alternative approach based on the use of site-specific recombination systems has been developed which enables integration into previously engineered genomic sites (sitespecific integration). Follow-up studies have validated the efficacy of the site-specific integration technology in generating transgenic events with a predictable range and stability of expression through successive generations, which are critical features of reliable and practically useful transgenic lines. Any DNA delivery methods can be used for site-specific integration; however, best efficiency is mostly obtained with direct DNA delivery methods such as particle bombardment. Although site-specific integration approach provides unique advantages for producing transgenic plants, it is still not a commonly used method. The present article discusses barriers and solutions for making it readily available to both academic research and applicative use.
4293925| Stable genetic transformation of embryogenic cultures of Abies nordmanniana (Nordmann fir or Caucasian fir) was achieved using the Biolistic transformation technology, followed by regeneration of transgenic plants. Selection of the transgenic tissue was based on the antibiotic resistance induced by the neomycin phosphotransferase II gene (npt II), in combination with the antibiotic geneticin. Six transclones were recovered from a total of 215 bombardments. Expression of the -glucuronidase gene (uidA) was confirmed by histochemical analysis, and expression of npt II was verified by quantification of NPTII protein by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Both genes were still expressed in the embryogenic tissue after 5 yr of in vitro culture and in mature somatic embryos and plants produced from these cultures. The integration of npt II was confirmed by Southern hybridization in embryogenic tissue after 5 yr of culture. After 5 yr of growth, uidA was still expressed in needles from the transformed trees. 
41496450|The effect of para-fluorophenylalanine (PFP) on the production of trisomie plants of Agave tequilana Weber var. Azul produced through somatic embryogenesis was investigated. Normal diploid plants with 2n=2x=60 were obtained in the control treatment and with 4 mg L PFP exposure, while use of 8 and 12 mg L PFP led to production of trisomies with 2n= 2x= 61. Normal diploid plants showed a bimodal karyotype with five pairs of large chromosomes and 25 pairs of small chromosomes. Trisomie plants also had a bimodal karyotype with a group of three chromosomes in position five of the chromosome set. More than 13 homologous chromosome pairs exhibited structural changes. Differences in chromosome arm ratio (long arm/short arm) were also found in eight chromosome pairs; all these aberrations in the chromosome complement of trisomie plants were probably caused by inversions, deletions, and/or duplications produced by high concentrations of PFP. The gross chromosome structural changes and the presence of a single extra chromosome could have been induced by the effect of PFP on the mitotic spindle by inducing nondisjunction of sister chromatids, resulting in hyperploids (2n + x) and hypoploids (2n -x). Flow cytometric analysis of nuclear DNA content was performed using nuclei isolated from young leaves of normal and trisomie plants. The 2C DNA content of 8.635 pg (1Cx= 4,223 Mbp of trisomie plants was different (p<0.001) than that of normal plants (2C DNA= 8.389 pg (1Cx= 4,102 Mbp). The difference in genome size was correlated with the large structural changes in the trisomie plant genomes.
20461724|Enhanced numbers of multiple shoots were induced from shoot tip explants of cucumber. The effects of amino acids (leucine, isoleucine, methionine, threonine, and tryptophan) and polyamines (spermidine, spermine, and putrescine) along with benzyladenine (BA) on multiple shoot induction were investigated. A Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing a combination of BA (4.44 M), leucine (88 M), and spermidine (68 M) induced the maximum number of shoots (36.6 shoots per explant) compared to BA (4.44 M) alone or BA (4.44 M) with leucine (88 M). The regenerated shoots were elongated on the same medium. Elongated shoots were transferred to the MS medium fortified with BA (4.44 M), leucine (88 M), and putrescine (62 M) for root induction. Rooted plants were hardened and successfully established in soil with a 90% survival rate.
4293350|The development of Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) somatic embryos on a maturation medium was accompanied by changes in nonstructural carbohydrate status. During embryo maturation, the content of total soluble sugars in the embryonal suspensor mass decreased and the partitioning between sucrose and hexoses changed considerably in favor of sucrose. Developing somatic embryos were mainly responsible for these changes. Osmotic stress caused by the presence of 3.75% polyethylene glycol (PEG) in the maturation medium (decrease in osmotic potential by 52.5 kPa) resulted in dramatic changes in the content of endogenous saccharides. There was a lower total carbohydrate content in the embryonal suspensor mass grown on the medium containing PEG in comparison with the untreated control. Isolated embryos from later stages of embryo development contained mainly sucrose with a small amount (20%) of fructose and nearly no glucose. A further increase in PEG concentration in the medium (7.5%; decrease in osmotic potential by 112.5 kPa compared to the maturation medium) led to a large increase in the total endogenous sugar content. This increase in sugars was a result of the enhanced content of sucrose, fructose, and glucose. The increased glucose content was in contrast to embryos grown on the medium with lower or no PEG content.
4293470|Widespread contamination of the environment by explosives resulting from the manufacture, disposal and testing of munitions is becoming a matter of increasing concern. Most explosives are considered to be a major hazard to biological systems due to their toxic and mutagenic effects. Interest on the bioremediation of land contaminated with explosives has recently been focused on phytoremediation. Unfortunately, whilst plants have many advantages for the remediation of contaminated land and water, they lack the catabolic versatility which enables microorganisms to mineralize such a wide diversity of xenobiotic compounds. This raised the interesting question as to whether the impressive biodegradative capabilities of soil bacteria could be combined with the high biomass and stability of plants to yield an optimal system for in situ bioremediation of explosive residues in soil. Our investigation into the degradation of explosive residues by soil bacteria resulted in the isolation of Enterobacter cloacae PB2, which is capable of utilizing nitrate ester explosives such as pentaerythritol tetranitrate (PETN) and nitroglycerin as the sole source of nitrogen for growth. We have successfully introduced PETN reductase, the enzyme initiating explosive degradation in this organism, into plants to create transgenic plants that degrade explosives. Since the bacterial degradative pathways for many classes of organic pollutant have been elucidated, this may be a generally applicable method of achieving bioremediation of contaminated soil in the environment.
41496511|Plectranthus barbatus (syn. Coleus forskohlii) is the only known source of forskolin, a compound with a wide range of pharmacological activities. Here, an efficient protocol for adventitious root regeneration from leaf expiants of P. barbatus was developed. Different concentrations of plant growth regulators individually and in combination were used to induce roots in vitro. Morphogenic responses and forskolin production varied depending on the concentrations of plant growth regulators added to the medium. Lower concentrations of auxins trigger callus proliferation while higher concentrations induced adventitious root regeneration. Of all the auxins, 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4,5-T), 2 (2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy) propionic acid (2,4,5-TP), and 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid (picloram) induced callus, whereas -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), indole-3-acetic acid, and indole-3-butyric acid induced rhizogenesis. Use of picloram at 1.0 and 0.5 mg with 0.5 mg l 6-benzylamino purine (BA), rhizogenic callus was produced. The cytokinins BA and kinetin produced a mixed response of multiple shoot regeneration, callus proliferation, and rhizogenesis. The maximum forskolin content of 1,178 mg kg dry weight was found in root cultures initiated on Gamborg's B medium supplemented with 0.5 mg l NAA. The biosynthesis of forskolin was differentiation dependent, and rhizogenic cultures exhibited the maximum biosynthetic potential for forskolin.
20064874|Shoots of "San Castrese" and "Portici" apricots (Prunus armeniaca L.) free of cultivable bacteria, shoots of the same origin exhibiting bacterial contamination after repeated subcultures, and contaminated shoots treated with cefotaxime were compared for gas exchange, proliferation rate, and fresh and dry weight. Cultures of San Castrese contaminated by Bacillus circulans and Sphingomonas paucimobilis, and of Portici contaminated with Staphylococcus hominis and Micrococcus kristinae, including those treated with cefotaxime, showed comparable shoot weights and lower proliferation rates than healthy cultures. Bacteria, even if not visible until the end of subculture, markedly influenced the gaseous composition of the jar headspace. Healthy cultures clearly showed photosynthetic activity at
23016604|In the use of genetic transformation in breeding, there are several possible problems including multiple copy insertion of transgene, sterility caused by somaclonal variation and gene silencing. In this study, we characterized transgenic New Rice for Africa (NERICA) produced by Agrobacterium-mediated methods with respect to copy number of transgene, fertility, and expression level of an introduced GUS gene. Southern blot analysis of primary transformants demonstrated that about half of the events carried a single copy of the transgene regardless of the cell density of Agrobacerium for inoculation. We examined ten procedures, consisting of different time periods and times of subculture for callus formation and the starting times of hygromycin-based selection of transformed cells, for transformation of NERICA cultivars to produce transformants within a short culture period at high frequency. A new culture method developed in this study required only about 1.5 mo from the beginning of tissue culture to transformants, whereas a standard protocol we developed previously needed about 2 mo of culture; however, it did not significantly reduce percentages of sterile plants. Fertile T0 plants produced fertile T 1 plants at higher frequency. However, fertility was not inherited in a simple fashion: both fertile and partially sterile T0 plants produced fertile, partially sterile and sterile T 1 plants. Expression assay of an introduced GUS gene revealed position effects in seven independent homozygous transformed lines carrying one copy of the transgene. Points to pay attention to in the use of genetic transformation in breeding are discussed.
4293769| Cryopreservation (liquid nitrogen, - 196C) represents the only safe and cost-effective option for long-term conservation of germplasm of non-orthodox seed species, vegetatively propagated species, and of biotechnology products. Classical cryopreservation techniques, which are based on freeze-induced dehydration, are mainly employed for freezing undifferentiated cultures and apices of cold-tolerant species. New cryopreservation techniques, which are based on vitrification of internal solutes, are successfully employed with all explant types, including cell suspensions and calluses, apices, and somatic and zygotic embryos of temperate and tropical species. The development of cryopreservation protocols is significantly more advanced for vegetatively propagated species than for recalcitrant seed species. Even though its routine use is still limited, there are a growing number of examples where cryopreservation is employed on a large scale for different types of materials, including seeds with orthodox and intermediate storage behaviour, dormant buds, pollen, biotechnology products, and apices sampled from in vitro plantlets of vegetatively propagated species. Cryopreservation can also be employed for uses other than germplasm conservation, such as cryoselection, i.e., the selection through freezing of samples with special properties, or cryotherapy, i.e., the elimination of viruses from infected plants through apex cryopreservation. Because of its high potential, it is expected that cryopreservation will become more frequently employed for long-term conservation of plant genetic resources. 
42568704|Exclusion of sodium ions from cells is one of the key salinity tolerance mechanisms in plants. The highaffinity cation transporter (HKT1;5) is located in the plasma membrane of the xylem, excluding Na from the parenchyma cells to reduce Na concentration. The regulatory mechanism and exact functions of HKT genes from different genotypic backgrounds are relatively obscure. In this study, the expression patterns of HKT1;5 in A and D genomes of wheat were investigated in root and leaf tissues of wild and domesticated genotypes using real-time PCR. In parallel, the K/Na ratio was measured in salt-tolerant and salt-sensitive cultivars. Promoter analysis were applied to shed light on underlying regulatory mechanism of the HKT1;5 expression. Gene isolation and qPCR confirmed the expression of HKT1;5 in the A and D genomes of wheat ancestors (Triticum boeoticum, AbAb and Aegilops crassa, MMDD, respectively). Interestingly, earlier expression of HKT1;5 was detected in leaves compared with roots in response to salt stress. In addition, the salt-tolerant genotypes expressed HKT1;5 before salt-sensitive genotypes. Our results suggest that HKT1;5 expression follows a tissue-and genotypespecific pattern. The highest level of HKT1;5 expression was observed in the leaves of Aegilops, 6 h after being subjected to high salt stress (200 mM). Overall, the D genome allele (HKT1;5-D) showed higher expression than the A genome (HKT1;5-A) allele when subjected to a high NaCl level. We suggest that the D genome is more effective regarding Na exclusion. Furthermore, in silico promoter analysis showed that TaHKT1;5 genes harbor jasmonic acid response elements.
23321152|A procedure for micropropagation of pitaya using thidiazuron (TDZ) and naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) is described. Explants were excised from young joints of mature plants and cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) containing 0.5 M NAA and 0.5 M TDZ. Shoots produced from these first explants were cut up to produce secondary explants, either by decapitation or by longitudinal division into three parts. The decapitated and longitudinal explants were cultured on MS supplemented with 0.5 M NAA and either 0.01, 0.09, 0.5, or 0.9 M TDZ. Decapitated explants produced more shoots at higher frequency than the longitudinal explants. For both types of secondary explants, most shoots were developed from the distal parts. Shoots produced from secondary explants were rooted in MS and then transferred to soil where they produced normal plants.
4293288| Transgenic soybean can be efficiently produced by particle bombardment of embryogenic suspension culture material. Unfortunately, the time required to obtain a transformation-competent soybean suspension culture line is often lengthy and can result in reduced fertility of regenerated plants. In addition, establishment and maintenance of embryogenic suspension cultures can be very difficult. The objective of this work was to minimize the time required to obtain transformation-competent embryogenic tissue and optimize DNA delivery into that tissue. Somatic embryos were induced from immature cotyledons of soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill cv 'Jack'] by placement of cotyledons, adaxial side up, on a MS-based induction medium containing 40 mg (181 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) per l and 6% sucrose. Embryogenic tissues, which formed from the surface of the cotyledons within 2-4 wk, were transferred to an embryo proliferation medium containing 20 mg (90 M) 2,4-D per l and 3% sucrose. After 4 wk, proliferative embryogenic tissue could be used for transformation via particle bombardment. Desiccation of target tissue, period of subculture prior to bombardment, and the number of bombardments per target tissue were evaluated for enhancement of transient -glucuronidase (GUS) expression. The highest number of blue foci was observed when the target tissue was desiccated for 10 min in an uncovered Petri plate containing proliferation medium, subcultured on the same day of bombardment, and bombarded three times on a single day. For stable transformation, selection was started 20 d after bombardment using 9 mg hygromycin per l for 4 wk, and 18 mg per l thereafter. Stably transformed clones were obtained from tissue bombarded once and twice on a single day. GUS assays and Southern hybridization analysis of DNA from putative clones confirmed stable integration of the introduced genes. Fertile transgenic plants were obtained in 11-12 mo following culture initiation. 
4293669|A strategy for the screening of candidate virus-derived sequences to provide RNA-mediated citrus tristeza virus (CTV) resistance and early selection of virus-resistant citrus is presented. The system is based on the polyethylene glycol- (PEG) mediated cotransformation of protoplasts using virus-derived sequences and green fluorescent protein as a single selectable marker, followed by an in vitro assay of virus inoculation into transgenic protoplasts to determine the level of citrus tristeza virus replication. A cotransformation rate higher than 20% allowed selection of several clones carrying the desired transgenes. Efficient in vitro inoculation of virus in transgenic protoplasts was performed. Tobacco mosaic virus virions were used as a control in order to check citrus protoplast viability. Different CTV replication levels were detected in transgenic clones. Only one clone showed no replication of CTV. Considerations regarding selection of candidate virus-derived sequences and virus challenge of transgenic cells are presented.
4293875|Embryo development is a very key phase in the life cycle of seed plants. At maturity, the embryo contains the complete machinery to elaborate the entire plant body. While the embryogenic process is an innate feature of the zygote, gametic and somatic cells can undergo embryogenesis under the appropriate culture conditions. Embryogenesis is a highly regulated process and the use of mutants, especially in Arabidopsis, has allowed the identification of genes regulating pattern formation during this process. The use of such mutants has revealed the critical roles of auxin levels and transport in the establishment of embryo axis. Root and shoot apical meristem function and integrity have been defined by examination of genes involved in their identity and function. Further knowledge of the molecular and biochemical aspects of zygotic embryogenesis should contribute to our understanding of the underlying regulatory pathways and networks and also provide critical insights into unique totipotent features of the plant cell.
25623010|Tecoma stans is a tropical plant from the Americas. Antioxidant activity and both phenolic compound and flavonoid total content were determined for callus tissue of T. stans cultured in either a set photoperiod or in darkness. Callus lines from three explant types (hypocotyls, stem, and leaf) were established on B5 culture medium supplemented with 0.5 M 2,4-D and 5.0 M kinetin. While leaf-derived callus grew slower under a 16-h photoperiod (specific growth rate, =0.179 d, $t_{{\rm D}}=3.9$ d) than in darkness (=0.236 d, $t_{{\rm D}}=2.9$ d), it accumulated the highest amount (p<0.05) of both phenolics (86.60.01 mg gallic acid equivalents/g) and flavonoids (339.60.06 mg catechin equivalents/g). Similarly, antioxidant activity was significantly higher (p<0.05) when callus was cultured in period light than when grown in extended darkness. Antioxidant activity measured with a 2,20-azinobis (3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulphonic acid) diammonium salt (ABTS)-based assay was 350.515.8 mmol Trolox/g extract for callus cultured under a defined photoperiod compared to 129.17.5 mmol Trolox/g extract from callus cultured in darkness. Content of phenolic compounds and flavonoids was in agreement with a better antioxidant power (EC=450 g extract/mg 1,1-dipheny1-2-picrylhydrazyl) and antiradical efficiency. Results of the present study show that calli of T. stans are a source of compounds with antioxidant activity that is favored by culture under a set photoperiod.
20461611|Malus micromalus Makino was genetically engineered with the rolC gene via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The antibiotics carbenicillin, hygromycin, and kanamycin (Km) inhibited shoot regeneration from in vitro leaf explants. The leaf segments were infected with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 harboring one of the three different plasmids. Shoots were regenerated only from leaf segments infected with LBA4404 harboring the plasmid with the intron-containing neomycin phosphotransferase II gene as the selectable marker. Preculture of leaf segments on regeneration medium for 2 d before Agrobacterium treatment reduced formation of Km-resistant calluses. Transformation was confirmed by a histochemical -glucuronidase (GUS) assay, amplification of the rolC gene by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and by Southern blot analysis. The rolC-transformed M. micromalus shoots showed an increased rooting ability without auxin treatment, and reduced height, internode length and leaf areas. This research shows the potential application of using the rolC gene for developing dwarf apple rootstocks.
4293814|Modes of regeneration from hypocotyl explants were studied in Pelargonium x hortorum 'Scarlet Orbit,' and three wild relatives, P. zonale, P. alchemilloides, and P. inquinans, on different cytokinin treatments [1  M thidiazuron (TDZ),
4293778| Micropropagation of Scabiosa caucasica cv. Caucasica Blue was achieved by culturing, separating axillary and adventitious shoots, or node sectioning on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with benzyladenine (BA). The highest frequency of adventitious shoots regenerated from nodal or internodal explants and leaf blade (with or without petiole) appeared to occur on MS medium with 4.4 and 18 M BA, respectively. Addition of 0.19 or 1.9 M -naphthaleneacetic acid to the BA-containing medium promoted callus formation and reduced shoot organogenesis. During micropropagation, shoot nodal explants derived from in vitro shoots cultured on MS medium supplemented with 4.4 M BA yielded 8.9 shoots per explant within 40 d after culture initiation. 
4293514|Plantago ovata Forsk (commonly known as Isabgul) is an economically important medicinal plant. In the present investigation, in vitro plant regeneration of P. ovata was attempted through somatic embryogenesis. Casein hydrolysate and coconut water were used in different concentrations in Murashige and Skoog medium along with 1-naphthaleneacetic acid and
4293473| We developed efficient genetic transformation protocols for two species of duckweed, Lemna gibba (G3) and Lemna minor (8627 and 8744), using Agrobacterium-mediated gene transfer. Partially differentiated nodules were co-cultivated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens harboring a binary vector containing -glucuronidase and nptII expression cassettes. Transformed cells were selected and allowed to grow into nodules in the presence of kanamycin. Transgenic duckweed fronds were regenerated from selected nodules. We demonstrated that transgenic duckweed could be regenerated within 3 mo. after Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of nodules. Furthermore, we developed a method for transforming L. minor 8627 in 6 wk. These transformation protocols will facilitate genetic engineering of duckweed, ideal plants for bioremediation and large-scale industrial production of biomass and recombinant proteins. 
40793220|Saffron (Crocus sativus L.) is a monocotyledonous plant propagated via corms, but recently several alternative methods have been reported. To find the conditions suitable for saffron shoot formation from corms, the effect of different concentrations of the plant growth regulatory cytokinins N -benzyladenine (BA) and N-pheny1-1, 2,3-thidiazol-5-ylurea, commonly known as thidiazuron (TDZ), were compared. In all corm expiants, an average of 39.5  5.1 shoots per corm were induced by 4.54  TDZ, whereas only 3.6-11.4% by BA. The outstanding result in the shoot formation stage is the generation of globular, translucent structures that are morphologically similar to globular embryos. To optimize the plant regeneration from the induced adventitious shoots obtained from the TDZ treatment, the shoots were transferred to MS and B5 media supplemented with different concentrations and combinations of NAA and BA. The highest rate of plant regeneration from developing shoots was observed in the B5 medium containing 2.22 M NAA and 2.68 M BA. With optimized hormonal conditions, an average of 19.55  5.75 shoots and 3.18  1.5 roots per expiants were obtained. Based on this experiment, a simple, new and efficient protocol is presented to produce numerous plants from induced corm expiants of saffron.
20541020|Two procedures for the in vitro propagation of Encyclia mariae, a threatened Mexican orchid, were developed. In the first procedure, leaves from in vitro germinated seedlings were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) supplemented with the range of 2.21-4.4 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) in combination with 2.69-10.74 M naphthalene acetic (NAA), 2.07-8.29 M indole-3-butyric (IBA), or 2.85-11.42 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) to determine the best medium for the induction of shooting. Maximum direct shoot formation from leaves was observed on MS containing 22.21 M BA and 10.74 M NAA (25 shoots/explant). The second procedure began with the culture of protocorms on media containing NAA, IBA, or IAA, which induced callus formation with high regenerative potential in the form of protocorm-like-bodies (PLBs) that eventually differentiated into shoots. The optimal response was attained when these structures were cultured on medium with 4.14 M IBA (30 shoots/PLB). To promote the elongation of shoots derived from PLBs, the material was subcultured onto MS medium containing 22.21 M BA and 5.37 M NAA. Through the exploration of the effects of auxins and matrix on the rooting of shoots, it was determined that the optimal rooting occurred on media supplemented either with 5.71 M IAA or 4.14 M IBA either on agar-gelled medium or in liquid media with coir as the matrix. Rooting was found to be 20% higher in liquid media than in agar-gelled medium.
4293409|An efficient method to produce highly regenerative tissues from seeds of a previously recalcitrant cultivar of Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis L. cv. Kenblue) was established under dim-light conditions (
20461687|Efficient plant regeneration through somatic embryogenesis was achieved in Polyscias filicifolia. Embryogenic calluses were induced on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with 0.5 mg l 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 1.0 mg l benzylaminopurine (BAP; type I callus) and on MS medium with 2.0 mg l 2,4-D and 0.01 mg l kinetin (type II callus) from leaf explants of a 2-yr-old plant. Primary somatic embryos (PSEs) developed after four passages of suspension culture established from embryogenic callus when cultured in liquid half-strength MS medium (1/2 MS) without growth regulators. PSEs in the cotyledonary stage were multiplied by adventitious embryogenesis. Single secondary somatic embryos (SSEs) or their clusters developed at the base of PSE hypocotyls and regenerated into plantlets in a one-step process on plant growth regulator-free 1/2 MS medium. Low sucrose concentration of 15 g l promoted development of normal SSEs. All SSEs regenerated into single, well-rooted plantlets on a Nitsch and Nitsch medium supplemented with 0.5 mg l kinetin, 0.1 mg l indole-3-butyric acid, and 10 mg l adenine sulfate. Subsequent two subculture cycles on the same medium were necessary to obtain plantlets sufficiency developed to allow successful transfer to the soil. Rooted plantlets were established in a peat mixture with 90% survival, with the plants showing normal morphological characteristics.
40663769|This paper reports on the optimum concentrations of naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) and 6-benzyladenine (BA) to stimulate callus growth and NAA; kinetin and silver nitrate (AgNO ) for callus redifferentiation in Dianthus caryophyllus L. Meristems were excised and placed in MS medium with 30 g 1 sucrose and 9.0 M 2,4-D.Callus clusters were transferred to MS medium containing NAA (0, 1.7, 3.3, and 5.0 M) and BA (0, 1.7, 3.3, and 5.0 M) for proliferation and to MS medium with 30 g 1 sucrose, 2.5 g 1 phytagel, kinetin (0, 33, and 66 M) NAA (0, 7.95, and 15.9 M) and AgNO (0, 23.54 and 47.08 M) for shoot and root induction. Treatments were applied according to a Box-Behnken design. After callus growth and redifferentiation, plants were incubated in the greenhouse at 18  2C for 4 wk and at 20-26C for 4 wk. Finally, plants were changed to near-commercial greenhouse conditions with different day (30-35C) and night (16-24C) temperatures. Results showed better callus growth at higher NAA concentrations.A maximum callus weight was found with 5.0 M NAA but without BA. A maximum of 78% calluses with shoots was obtained with 15.9 M NAA, 47.08 M AgNO , and 0.74 M kinetin and 58% with roots with 15.7 M NAA and 47. AgNO but without kinetin. The shoots obtained showed little hyperhydricity. Vigorous plants were obtained after gradual acclimatization with an 80% survival rate under nursery conditions.
20461565|In vitro plants of lemon grass were established, starting from shoot apices derived from plants cultivated under field conditions. The effect of the immersion frequency (two, four, and six immersions per day) on the production of biomass in temporary immersion systems (TIS) of 1 liter capacity was studied. The highest multiplication coefficient (12.3) was obtained when six immersions per day were used. The maximum values of fresh weight (FW; 62.2 and 66.2 g) were obtained with a frequency of four and six immersions per day, respectively. However, the values for dry weight (DW; 6.4 g) and height (8.97 cm) were greater in the treatment with four immersions per day. The TIS used in this work for the production of lemon grass biomass may offer the possibility of manipulating the culture parameters, which can influence the production of biomass and the accumulation of secondary metabolites. We describe for the first time the in vitro production of Cymbopogon citratus biomass in TIS.
20064806|A method for culturing excised pea embryo axes, which allows growth of large batches of embryo axes in a reduced volume of medium and is suitable for performing biochemical analyses and early treatment or labeling of embryos with exogenous substances, has been devised. Pea embryo axes were excised from the seeds after 3 h of imbibition and cultured in a mineral medium containing sucrose, vitamins, and casamino acids. Under these conditions, the reactivation of the cell cycle occurs much earlier than in intact seeds: with flow cytometry and bromodeoxyuridine labeling, cells in the S phase were found in the root meristems after only 12 h from the beginning of imbibition. The transition of cells from a quiescent to a proliferative state is accompanied by changes in the electrophoretic pattern of nuclear proteins, particularly with regard to two proteins of apparent molecular weight of 90 and 46 kDa, as shown previously in normally germinating seeds.
20064866|A rapid, efficient assay that is nondestructive and semiquantitative for identifying transgenic plants and progeny from Biolistic and protoplast transformations is described. Leaf sections of maize and wheat plants are placed on an indicator medium containing chlorophenol red and the selection agent. Changes in the color of the medium from red to yellow resulting from altered pH indicate transformed plants within 2-5 d. The method is particularly suited to use with phosphinothricin and could be used with other suitable selectable markers.
4293648|Callus induction was observed from hypocotyl, root, and cotyledonary leaf segments, grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with various concentrations and combinations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and kinetin (KN). Maximum callusing (100%) was obtained from root and cotyledonary leaf segments grown on MS medium supplemented with a combination of
4293262|The toxicity of three antibiotics commonly used to eliminate Agrobacterium tumefaciens from plant tissue during transformation were tested to determine their effect on Pinus pinea L. morphogenesis. Cefotaxime and vancomycin at a dose of 250  g ml
4293153|Leafy shoots of cauliflower were produced from hypocotyl segments, curd branches (debarassed of existing meristems) and intact curd pieces submitted to various basal media. Adventitious shoot production and axillary bud break exhibited very different nutritive requirements. In each case, an interaction between the plant growth regulators and the composition of the basal medium was discovered. Propagation from curd pieces was dependent on the interaction between plant growth regulators and high sucrose-to-macronutrients ratio in the medium. A medium containing 168 mM sucrose, supplemented with
4293923|The productivity of plantation forests is essential to meet the future world demand for wood and wood products in a sustainable fashion and in a manner that preserves natural stands and biodiversity. Plantation forestry has enormously benefited from development and implementation of improved silvicultural and forest management practices during the past century. A second wave of improvements has been brought about by the introduction of new germplasm developed through genetics and breeding efforts for both hardwood and conifer tree species. Coupled with the genetic gains achieved through tree breeding, the emergence of new biotechnological approaches that span the fields of plant developmental biology, genetic transformation, and discovery of genes associated with complex multigenic traits have added a new dimension to forest tree improvement programs. Significant progress has been made during the past five years in the area of plant regeneration via organogenesis and somatic embryogenesis (SE) for economically important tree species. These advances have not only helped the development of efficient gene transfer techniques, but also have opened up avenues for deployment of new high-performance clonally replicated planting stocks in forest plantations. One of the greatest challenges today is the ability to extend this technology to the most elite germplasm, such that it becomes an economically feasible means for large-scale production and delivery of improved planting stock. Another challenge will be the ability of the forestry research community to capitalize rapidly on current and future genomics-based elucidation of the underlying mechanisms for important but complex phenotypes. Advancements in gene cloning and genomics technology in forest trees have enabled the discovery and introduction of value-added traits for wood quality and resistance to biotic and abiotic stresses into improved genotypes. With these technical advancements, it will be necessary for reliable regulatory infrastructures and processes to be in place worldwide for testing and release of trees improved through biotechnology. Commercialization of planting stocks, as new varieties generated through clonal propagation and advanced breeding programs or as transgenic trees with high-value traits, is expected in the near future, and these trees will enhance the quality and productivity of our plantation forests.
20064832|Rapidly growing cell suspension cultures of shepherd's purse (Capsella bursa-pastoris L. Medic.) were established from leaf-derived calli. These suspensions remained unorganized in the presence of 2,4-D, but underwent extensive root organogenesis in a growth regulator-free liquid medium. Attempts to induce direct embryogenesis in liquid cultures were unsuccessful, but numerous embryos were obtained from cells plated onto growth-regulator-free solid medium. These embryos were frequently abnormal, and secondary embryogenesis was problematic for plant recovery, but fertile plants were recovered. Viable protoplasts could readily be isolated from these cell suspensions. After 1 wk of culture, protoplast viability was 62%, and 7% of the cells had divided. Embryogenesis was observed from protoplast-derived microcolonies, plated on growth-regulator-free medium. Although these somatic embryos were difficult to root, plants were recovered. New cell suspensions were more recently established, which were only 4 to 6 mo. old when plant regeneration was attempted. Numerous shoots were obtained when these cells were plated onto growth-regulator-free solid media. However, these shoots differed from the embryos previously obtained in that they readily rooted and rapidly developed into plantlets. This system may allow the use of shepherd's purse as a gene source for introgression of agronomically interesting traits into Brassica crop species through protoplast manipulation and somatic hybridization.
20064824|The relative maturity and competence of somatic embryos is often estimated on the basis of their morphologic similarity to various stages of immature zygotic embryo development. Morphologic abnormalities noted in soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] somatic embryos are similar to those observed in zygotic embryos maturing in vitro and may reflect common interruptions of normal developmental processes. We provide here a more objective means of assessing the point(s) at which cultured embryos deviate from the normal embryogenical pathway by comparing the accumulation of the embryospecific marker proteins (11S and 7S storage globulins, soybean agglutinin, and seed lipoxygenase) between somatic and immature zygotic embryos maturing in culture to zygotic embryos maturing in planta. Immature (heart-stage) soybean (cv. 'McCall') zygotic embryos were removed from the testa and cultured for 5, 15, or 45 days in nine modified Linsmaer-Skoog salts, 5% sucrose liquid medium. Somatic embryos were induced from immature cotyledon explants on a medium containing either naphthalene acetic acid or 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (
4293257|The majority of bamboos (Graminae) are arborescent and perennial. The erect stems (culms) of woody bamboos are useful for a wide variety of purposes. Most bamboos flower only once at the end of very long vegetative growth phases and die afterwards. Flowering in bamboos is thought to be under genetic control, occurring somewhat like an alarm clock, going off at a preset time. The nature of this genetic clock and any interaction between the 'internal clock' and the environment are not yet known. Because of this 'peculiar' flowering behavior, bamboo seeds are available only at very long intervals. Obtaining concurrent flowering in two or more species (or varieties) in space and time is difficult, making perennial seed propagation and genetic improvement by breeding nearly impossible. Besides, this peculiar flowering behavior of bamboos is also believed to have brought the giant pandas to the verge of extinction. One of the spectacular developments in the area of bamboo genetic improvement has been the precocious in vitro induction of flowering. By this method it has been possible to rapidly accelerate the reproductive development (within 3-6 mo. versus 30-60 yr in nature). This has opened the possibility of perennial seed propagation and hybridization. In vitro induction of flowering can be obtained by diverse methods which show some similarities and differences. Induction of flowering is possible in cultures derived from both juvenile and mature explants. The proportion of seedlings induced to flower is possibly influenced by genotypic variation, though the role of methods used cannot be ruled out. A cytokinin or a shift in the auxin-cytokinin equilibrium is believed to bring about in vitro induction of flowering. The pH of the media also has an influence. Induction of flowering and rhizogenesis is considered to be an antagonistic phenomenon in vitro. A comparison between in vitro and in vivo flowering in Bambusa arundinacea has shown that though smaller, in vitro-induced florets are comparable to normal florets. There is reduced pollen fertility and some impairment in pollen wall development. Biochemical studies on the in vitro-induced flowering in bamboos have shown (1) selective expression of esterase and peroxidase isozymes during transition of nonembryogenic calluses to embryogenic calluses, somatic embryo development, germination and subsequent flowering of somatic embryo derived shoots, and (2) minimal peroxidase activity before rhizogenesis and induction of flowering in vitro. There are reports of published and comparable methods having failed to induce flowering in vitro.
20461533|Studies on the development of protocols for the clonal propagation, through somatic embryogenesis, of coconut have been reported for the past three decades, mostly using inflorescence explants, but with low reproducibility and efficiency. Recent improvements in these respects have been achieved using plumular explants. Here, we report a developmental study of embryogenesis in plumule explants using histological techniques in order to extend our understanding of this process. Coconut plumule explants consisted of the shoot meristem including leaf primordia. At day 15 of culture, the explants did not show any apparent growth; however, a transverse section showed noticeable growth of the plumular leaves forming a ring around the inner leaves and the shoot meristem, which did not show any apparent growth. At day 30, the shoot meristem started to grow and the plumular leaves continued growing. At day 45, the explants were still compact and white in color, but showed partial dedifferentiation and meristematic cell proliferation leading to the development of callus structures with a translucent appearance. After 60 d, these meristematic cells evolved into nodular structures. At day 75, the nodular structures became pearly globular structures on the surface of translucent structures, from which somatic embryos eventually formed and presented well-developed root and caulinar meristems. These results allow better insights and an integrated view into the somatic embryogenesis process in coconut plumule explants, which could be helpful for future studies that eventually could lead us to improved control of the process and greater efficiency of somatic embryo and plantlet formation.
20064879|Examination of unfixed immature somatic embryos of white spruce (Picea glauca) with fluorescent rhodamine-labeled phalloidin revealed an extensive network of fine actin microfilaments (MFs) in the embryonal region which were not detected in specimens fixed with formaldehyde. Transition cells linking the embryonal region and suspensor cells contained fine MFs as well as bundles of MFs. The large, highly vacuolated suspensor cells were characterized by actin MF cables only. Treatment of embryos with cytochalasin B (CB) removed the fine MFs from the embryonal region and transition cells, but many MF cables in suspensor cells were resistant. Full recovery from CB treatment was observed in most somatic embryos. Embryogenic protoplasts capable of regenerating to somatic embryos in culture were released from only the embryonal region of somatic embryos. Both uninucleate and multinucleate embryogenic protoplasts retained the extensive network of fine actin MFs. In contrast, protoplasts derived from vacuolated suspensor cells and vacuolated free-floating cells contained thick MF bundles and were not embryogenic. Distinct MF cages enclosed nuclei in multinucleate protoplasts and may be responsible for preventing nuclear fusion. Microspectrophotometric analyses showed that the DNA contents of embryonal cells in the embryo and embryogenic protoplasts were similar and characteristic of rapidly dividing cell populations. However, transition and suspensor cells which released nonembryogenic protoplasts appeared to be arrested in G, and suspensor cells showed signs of DNA degradation.
41496438|Miscanthus sinensis (Poaceae) is a typical perennial giant grass of East Asia. Due to its high photosynthetic efficiency, low input requirements, and high biomass production, M. sinensis shows outstanding potential as a biofuel feedstock. However, the lack of an efficient tissue culture system may limit its utilization potential. Different explants of M. sinensis were evaluated to develop an efficient tissue culture system. Shoot apices from in vitro-germinated seedling explants were tested for adventitious bud proliferation. The highest level of proliferation (multiplication coefficient 6.69) was obtained when shoot apices were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 1.0 mg L 6-benzyladenine (BA), 2.0 mg L kinetin, 0.05 mg L -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA), 3% sucrose, and 0.8% agar. The highest rooting percentage (95.4%) was obtained when adventitious buds were cultured on half-strength MS medium supplemented with 0.2 mg L NAA, 3% sucrose, and 0.8% agar. Significant differences were found in the formation of embryognie callus among different explant types. The embryogenic callus derived from epicotyls had the highest regeneration capacity when cultured on a medium supplemented with 2.0 mg L 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 0.5 mg L BA, and 0.1 mg L thiamine. Under these conditions, the callus induction percentage was 82%.
4293479|Adventitious buds and shoots of Eucalyptus globulus Labill. (Tasmanian Bluegum) have been regenerated from cotyledons and hypocotyls from mature embryos and seedlings. Adventitious buds were induced at high frequency with 0.05  M thidiazuron in combination with 0.2  M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid or
4293512|Mature zygotic embryos of eight (open-pollinated) families of loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.) were cultured on eight different basal salt formulations, each supplemented with
4293129| The effect of sucrose, jasmonic acid (JA) and darkness on bulb formation of garlic Allium sativum L. cv. Ptujski jesenski was studied in vitro. B5 medium supplemented with 3% sucrose, 5 M JA and 5 M 2-isopentenyl adenine (2iP) was used for shoot induction on garlic basal plates. For bulb induction, expiants with developed shoots were transferred onto media with 3% or 8% sucrose in the presence or absence of 5 M JA. Sucrose (8%) significantly increased the percentage of shoots which formed bulbs by 86-90%, bulb diameter and the number of bulbs per basal plate. On medium supplemented with JA, the average number of bulbs per basal plate was 11.5. Growth of expiants in the dark was ineffective for stimulating bulb formation. Simultaneous use of JA and sucrose can improve garlic micropropagation via bulb formation, without intermediate callus formation. 
4293801|Micropropagated grape (Vitis vinifera L.) cv. Arka Neelamani cultures showed a decline in root and shoot growth performance after 6-7 yr of continuous in vitro culture. Indexing the culture medium using nutrient agar or 523 bacteriological medium (Viss et al., 1991) revealed covert bacteria in 75-100% cultures. Testing the tissue from different parts of in vitro plantlets on nutrient agar showed bacteria comprising of six or more morphotypes in 100% of root and collar tissue samples but less frequently in stem segments. The shoot tips had the lowest incidence of bacterial association. The whole shoots treated with NaOCl (4% chlorine) or HgCl
41432834|A highly promising procedure to obtain seedlings of Taxus baccata L. has been developed, which involves a combination of in vitro embryo culture and growth under hydroponic conditions. Embryos isolated from freshly collected seeds were 100% sterile, even though the seeds were not treated with acid or soaked in water prior to culturing. The embryo germination level of non-leached seeds was slightly lower (85%) than those leached in running water for 7 d (100%). The leached embryos germinated with extended roots while the non-leached embryos had abnormal shapes. The embryos cultured on media supplemented with an absorbent (PVP or activated charcoal) had extended roots and shoots and were a larger size without any browning, as compared to those grown without the supplement; activated charcoal gave better results. There were no significant differences in germination rates of T. baccata embryos between the media with differing strengths of macronutrients; however, for further development of the shoot, it was necessary to sub-culture the seedlings in MS in the light. To obtain seedlings with longer roots, they had to be maintained in one-half strength MS in darkness. Approximately 90% of the plants survived when grown hydroponically for 2 mo. The surviving plants showed well-extended roots and were a good starting material for genomic, proteomic, and conservational studies as well as Taxol permeabilization investigations.
4293737| Tamarind, a multipurpose tropical tree species, is economically important for sustainable development of wasteland due to its hardy nature and adaptability to various agroclimatic conditions. Reports on in vitro morphogenesis in this species are limited, due to its recalcitrant and callogenic nature. To overcome these limitations, an attempt was made to induce meristematic activity in seedling explants. Seedlings were germinated in medium with or without thidiazuron (4.54, 9.08, 13.12, 18.16 (M). This growth regulator restricted the differentiation of the apical meristem to form shoots. It triggered proliferation of the meristematic tissue at the cotyledonary node and a large number of meristematic buds appeared in a radial pattern around the node. The meristematic activity extended to the junction of the epicotyl and hypocotyl, giving rise to buds in the form of protuberances in all sides of the junction. These buds differentiated to form shoot primordia and subsequently to shoots in medium devoid of growth regulators. Plants developed by micrografting of these shoots on seedling-derived rootstocks survived in soil. 
4293449|Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers were utilized for screening the clonal fidelity of in vitro-raised bulblets of Lilium sp. (Asiatic hybrids) produced through adventitious mode of propagation. The first set of 14 bulblets was randomly chosen from about 175 micropropagated bulblets regenerated from
4293611|Callus induction and later plant regeneration were studied in four widely grown garlic (Allium sativum L.) cultivars from Europe. Root segments from in vitro plantlets were used as starting material. In addition to cultivar effects, the effects of auxin and cytokinin levels and the position of the segments on the root were studied. There were no statistically significant differences among cultivars for the number of root segments that induced callus in the two series of experiments. The average induction frequency was 34.7% in the first series of experiments. Callus induction on apical root segments was significantly higher compared to callus induction on non-apical root segments in the second series of experiments. Two months after callus induction, callus lines were transferred to a regeneration medium consisting of Murashige and Skoog basal medium supplemented with
29736212|Herbicide (Basta)-tolerant Vigna mungo L. Hepper plants were produced using cotyledonary-node and shoot-tip explants from seedlings germinated in vitro from immature seeds. In vitro selection was performed with phosphinothricin as the selection agent. Explants were inoculated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 (harboring the binary vector pME 524 carrying the nptII, bar, and uidA genes) in the presence of acetosyringone. Shoot regeneration occurred for 6 wk on regeneration medium (MS medium with 4.44 M benzyl adenine, 0.91 M thidiazuron, and 81.43 M adenine sulfate) with 2.4 mg/l PPT, explants being transferred to fresh medium every 14 d. After a period on elongation medium (MS medium with 2.89 M gibberellic acid and 2.4 mg/l PPT), -glucuronidase-expressing putative transformants were rooted in MS medium with 7.36 M indolyl butyric acid and 2.4 mg/l PPT. -Glucuronidase expression was observed in the primary transformants (T) and in the seedlings of the T generation. Screening 128 GUS-expressing, cotyledonary-node-derived, acclimatized plants by spraying the herbicide Basta at 0.1 mg/l eliminated nonherbicide-resistant plants. Southern hybridization analysis confirmed the transgenic nature of the herbicide-resistant plants. All the transformed plants were fertile, and the transgene was inherited by Mendelian genetics. Immature cotyledonary-node explants produced a higher frequency of transformed plants (7.6%) than shoot-tip explants (2.6%).
20461644|Up to 73% decrease in cost of media for plant regeneration and in vitro conservation was achieved in Curcuma longa cv Prathibha by using inexpensive carbon source and gelling agent. Laboratory reagent-grade sucrose was replaced by locally available commercial sugar (market sugar or sugar cubes) as carbon source and bacteriological grade agar by isabgol (also named isubgol) as gelling agent. No adverse effects on shoot regeneration and conservation on isabgol-gelled low-cost media were observed as compared to that on agar-gelled control medium (CM). Some 33-56% cultures of C. longa survived up to 12 mo. on isabgol-gelled medium in comparison to only 16% on CM. Genetic stability of 12-month-old in vitro-conserved plants was assessed using 25 random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) primers; no significant variation was observed in RAPD profiles of mother plants and in vitro-conserved plantlets on CM and low-cost media.
4293434|A wide range of microorganisms (filamentous fungi, yeasts, bacteria, viruses and viroids) and micro-arthropods (mites and thrips) have been identified as contaminants in plant tissue cultures. Contaminants may be introduced with the explant, during manipulations in the laboratory or by micro-arthropod vectors. Contaminants may express themselves immediately or can remain latent for long periods of time. This often makes it difficult to identify the source of contamination. Disinfection protocols have now been developed for a wide range of plant species including those infected with viruses/viroids or endophytic bacteria. They may include the selection of pathogen-free donor plants or donor plant treatments such as thermotherapy. Also microbiological quality assurance systems (e.g. Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point; HACCP procedures) have been adapted to the needs of commercial plant tissue culture laboratories. These are aimed at preventing the introduction of pathogens into tissue cultures at establishment and in the laboratory. In established in vitro cultures preventative strategies have proved to be essential, since it is extremely difficult to eliminate environmental bacterial and fungal contaminants using antibiotics and fungicides. In many cases anti-microbial treatments only inhibit contaminants and low levels of contamination persist. In particular, the use of antibiotics against Gram-negative bacteria (including plant pathogenic bacteria and Agrobacterium tumefaciens vector systems used in genetic engineering) has been shown frequently to be extremely difficult or unsuccessful. Detection of latent contamination may involve the use of general and semi-selective microbial growth media or serological and PCR-based molecular techniques for specific pathogens. However, it is often difficult to detect low numbers of latent bacterial contaminants (e.g. levels present following antibiotic treatment or when acidified plant media are used). This poses a particular risk in the production of transgenic plants where the elimination or detection of Agrobacterium tumefaciens-based vector systems cannot be guaranteed with the currently available methodologies. Recent research has also shown that there is a risk of the transmission of human pathogens in plant tissue cultures.
20461532|Forage and turf grasses are critical to sustainable agriculture and contribute extensively to the world economy. Tremendous progress has been made in genetic transformation of forage and turf grasses in the past decade. The rapid advancement of cellular and molecular biology and transgenic technology provides novel methods to accelerate and complement conventional breeding efforts. This review summarizes the latest developments in genetic transformation methods and the applications of molecular techniques for the improvement of forage and turf grasses.
4293531|Continuous axillary shoot proliferation and in vitro flowering were achieved using single node explants from a mature (over 70-yr-old) field clump of Dendrocalamus giganteus (giant bamboo). The shoots proliferated in a basal Murashige and Skoog medium with
4293252|The efficient exchange of gases between roots and their environment is one of the biggest challenges in bioreactor design for transformed root cultures. Gas-phase reactors can alleviate this problem as well as provide a new tool for studying the biological response of roots and other differentiated tissues to changes in the gas phase composition. In our comparison of liquid- and gas-phase reactors, roots grown in liquid (shake flasks or bubble column reactors) are shown to be under hypoxic stress. Roots grown in a gas-phase reactor (nutrient mist), while not hypoxic, produced 50% less biomass. These results suggest that the response of the tissues to gas phase composition are complex and need further study.
4293598|Novel elongated fiber-structures were repeatedly found both in leaf protoplast culture of two clones of Betula platyphylla and in protoplast culture of embryogenic cells of Larix leptolepis. Suboptimum culture conditions for cell division appeared to lead to fiber formation when using multi-well plate culture with varying medium compositions. The suboptimum conditions for cell divisions were brought about by (1) plant growth regulators: auxins and cytokinins; (2) pH: 3.5, 4.5, 5.8; (3) divalent cations: CaCl
20461719|Embryogenic avocado cultures derived from 'Hass' protoplasts were genetically transformed with the plant defensin gene (pdf1.2) driven by the CaMV 35S promoter in pGPTV with uidA as a reporter gene and bar, the gene for resistance to phosphinothricin, the active ingredient of the herbicide Finale (Basta) (Bayer Environmental Science, Research Triangle Park, Durham, NC). Transformation was mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105. Transformed cultures were selected in the presence of 3.0 mg l phosphinothricin in liquid maintenance medium for 3-4 mo. Liquid maintenance medium consisted of modified MS medium containing (per liter) 12 mg NHNO and 30.3 mg KNO and supplemented with 0.1 mg l thiamine HCl, 100 mg l myo-inositol, 30 g l sucrose, 3.0 mg l phosphinothricin, and 0.41 M picloram. Somatic embryo development from transformed cultures was initiated on MS medium supplemented with 45 g l sucrose, 4 mg l thiamine HCl, 100 mg l myo-inositol, 10% (v/v) filter-sterilized coconut water, 3.0 mg l phosphinothricin, and 6.0 g l gellan gum. Limited plant recovery occurred from somatic embryos on semi-solid MS medium supplemented with 3.0 mg l phosphinothricin, 4.44 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA), and 2.89 M GA; transformed shoots were micrografted on in vitro-grown seedling root-stocks. Approximately 1 yr after acclimatization in the greenhouse, transformed shoots were air-layered to recover transformed roots. Genetic transformation of embryogenic cultures, somatic embryos, and regenerated plants was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), Southern blot hybridization, the XGLUC reaction for uidA, and application of the herbicide Finale to regenerated plants.
4293415| Verbascum thapsus L. is a medicinal herb and has been used to treat inflammatory disease, asthma, spasmodic coughs and migraine headaches. Studies were initiated to establish an in vitro culture protocol for V. thapsus. Explants (leaf discs, petioles and roots) were cultured on Murashige and Skoog minimal organics (MSMO) medium with benzyladenine (BA) or kinetin. Best shoot proliferation was obtained from leaf disc and petiole explants at 13.32 M BA. Leaf discs were cultured on MSMO medium with 13.32 M BA in combination with naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). More shoot development was obtained with 13.32 M BA and 5.37 M NAA. Shoots were transferred to rooting media containing different levels of NAA and 2,4-D. Most of the shoots formed roots on media with 5.37 M NAA. Plants were transferred to vermiculite and subsequently to potting media and maintained in the greenhouse. 
4293620|Hosta 'Blue Vision', a shade-adapted perennial, was successfully acclimatized in high, natural light conditions in the research Acclimatron[TRADE MARK SIGN] at Clemson University, Clemson, SC during the summer of 2000. The supplemental CO
20461574|Inflorescence proliferation is a plant tissue culture technique that can be used to obtain in vitro inflorescences year-round without the intervening development of vegetative organs. In this study, we used albino mutant inflorescences of Dendrocalamus latiflorus as the original explant material to investigate the effect of plant growth regulators on long-term inflorescence proliferation. The albino inflorescences proliferated on solidified Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with thidiazuron (TDZ), and the optimal concentration for successful long-term inflorescence proliferation was 0.45 M TDZ. A combination of -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) with 0.45 M TDZ inhibited the inflorescence proliferation. Inflorescences cultured on a TDZ-free medium supplemented with 26.82 M NAA rooted in 21 d, vegetative shoots formed by 42 d and, in one case, flowering occurred after 63 d. The auxins 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D, 4.52 M) and picloram (4.14 M) induced shoot formation. The protocol described can be used to produce large numbers of mutant inflorescences within a relatively short period of time.
4293726| Somatic embryogenesis was induced from suspension cultures (derived from leaf callus) of an important medicinal plant, Plumbago rosea L. While acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) alone induced embryogenesis, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) failed to elicit a similar response. This is the first time that ASA-induced somatic embryogenesis has been reported in cultured cells. Optimal embryogenic response per culture was observed in Murashige and Skoog's medium containing a combination of ASA (8.32 M) and IAA (5.06 M), but 1-naphthaleneacetic acid and indole-3-butyric acid individually did not induce somatic embryogenesis. Increase in the concentration of ammonium enhanced the number of embryos formed per culture. Accumulation of plumbagin, an important naphthoquinone and a medicinal compound, was three times higher in embryogenic compared to non-embryogenic suspensions. 
4292960|The effects of light spectral quality on the growth of in vitro nodal cuttings of potato (Solarium tuberosum L.) cultivars Norland, Superior, Kennebec, and Denali were examined. The different light spectra were provided by Vita-Lite fluorescent (VF) (a white light control), blue fluorescent (BF), red fluorescent (RF), low-pressure sodium (LPS), and a combination of low-pressure sodium plus cool-white fluorescent lamps (LPS/CWF). For all cultivars, stem lengths after 4 wk were longest under LPS, followed by RF, LPS/CWF, VF, and BF (in descending order). Microscopic studies revealed that cells were shortest when cultured in BF or VF environments, and were longest in RF or LPS lamp environments. The highest number of axillary branches occurred on plantlets grown with LPS or LPS/CWF, whereas the lowest number occurred with BF. No leaf or stem edema (callus or gall-like growths) occurred with LPS or LPS/CWF lighting, and no edema occurred on cv. Norland plantlets, regardless of lighting. Results suggest that shoot morphologic development of in vitro grown potato plants can be controlled by controlling irradiant spectral quality.
4293132|Excised tomato roots (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill, cv Bonny Best) were cultured in the presence of mannitol to determine the effects of varying degrees of mild water deficit on their developmental growth. It was found that over the 7-d culture period, the cultured roots could regulate their own developmental responses to the water deficit such that elongation of the primary root axis was favored over that of the lateral roots. Higher degrees of water deficit proportionately decreased lateral root number and density, but lateral root primordia (visualized by clearing roots in chromium trioxide) continued to be formed in water-stressed roots. Measurements of water and osmotic (solute) potentials of the root tips showed that the cultured roots osmoregulated and did not suffer a loss in turgor pressure as a result of the mannitol treatments. However, reciprocal transfer experiments showed that root cultures were unable to resume growth after removal from water deficit conditions, thus indicating a probable requirement for the shoot for complete recovery.
40981327|The Balkan endemic species, Hypericum rumeliacum, Guttiferae was introduced in vitro for the first time with the aim to study the type of morphogenetic response to plant growth regulators and ability to produce phenolics and flavonoid compounds. The morphoregulatory effect of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 1-naphtaleneacetic acid (NAA), 6-benzyladenine (BA) and combination of lamina, internode stem segment, stem node and root cuttings was studied. Histological analysis of the structures regenerated from the primary expiants proved the presence of both, embryoids and meristemoids. The node expiants cultivated on BA-supplemented medium were the most favourable for regeneration through meristemoids. Therefore a double-stage culture approach, allowing an effective multiplication of large quantities of plant shoots in vitro along with maintenance of the biosynthetic capacity of the culture was developed. It comprised one subculture of three-nodal stem expiants derived from the stock shoot cultures on MS medium supplemented with 0.2 mg/1 BA followed by subculture of the induced multiple shoots on cytokinin-free MS medium. Determination of the total phenolics and flavonoids showed that the decrease of the levels of these secondary metabolites is transitional, as the exclusionof BA from the medium resulted in an increase of their total content.
24596338|Abnormal physiological responses of plant cultures such as shoot tip necrosis, callus, and hyperhydricity are some of the most difficult challenges in shoot micropropagation, and their causes are not well understood. Five Murashige and Skoog mineral salt factors, which influence the growth of pear shoot cultures, were tested in a five-dimensional surface response experimental design. Pyrus communis 'Old Home  Farmingdale 87,' 'Horner 51,' and 'Winter Nelis'; Pyrus dimorphophylla; and Pyrus ussuriensis 'Hang Pa Li' shoot cultures were grown on 43 computer-designed treatments to represent the design space of all possible treatment combinations. Analysis of shoot response to these treatments identified the factors that both contributed to physiological disorders and remedied them. Undesirable callus formation was common for pear shoots cultured on standard medium and decreased on formulations with increased NHNO, Fe, and mesos (CaCl, KHPO, and MgSO) for most genotypes. Shoot tip necrosis varied with the genotype, but low mesos or low nitrogen concentrations contributed to the necrosis. Hyperhydricity was more prominent with low mesos or low NHNO. Hooked and upwardly curled new leaves were seen in most genotypes and resulted from use of low mesos in P. communis and low nitrogen for 'Hang Pa Li' and P. dimorphophylla. Fasciation and hypertrophy were seen infrequently and resulted from wide imbalances in several nutrients simultaneously. In general, standard concentrations of Murashige and Skoog iron and micros combined with high mesos and moderate nitrogen compounds produced normal shoots without physiological disorders.
4293692|The regal pelargonium, cv. Dubonnet, was transformed using the disarmed Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains LBA4404 or EHA105 containing the binary vector pLN70. This plasmid carries on its T-DNA the rolC gene from Agrobacterium rhizogenes under control of the CaMV 35S promoter and the npt II selectable marker gene under a NOS promoter. Six independent transformants were produced and grouped according to their phenotypic characteristics. Two transformants showed the same phenotype as the untransformed control plants. Three transformants exhibited a dwarf phenotype and one displayed a super-dwarf phenotype. Southern hybridization analyses of the T-DNA left border region using a npt II probe showed that the six transformants all arose from independent transformation events. Northern hybridization analyses showed that the rolC gene was expressed only in the four transformants that exhibited a dwarf phenotype. Our data show that the phenotypic effects of rolC expression in regal pelargoniums include reductions in plant height, leaf area, petal area, and corolla length. Earlier flowering of the rolC transgenics by up to 22 d was also observed.
4293111|The accumulation of ethylene in headspace of hypocotyl cultures of geranium (Pelargonium x hortorum Bailey) and its possible role in thidiazuron-mediated somatic embryogenesis was investigated. The action of ethylene as determined by various ethylene synthesis and action inhibitors was varied. Silver nitrate (
20064953|A genetic transformation method using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 and based on the neomycin phosphotransferase II (nptII) selectable marker gene is described for a cultivar of florists' chrysanthemum, Dendranthema Xgrandiflorum 'Peach Margaret.' We used the flavonoid regulatory cDNA, Leaf color (Lc) from the monocot Zea mays (maize), under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, to test if it would serve as a visible, nondestructive pigmentation reporter of transformation in chrysanthemum and to see if we could modify floral and leaf pigmentation. Stable integration of the maize Lc cDNA in 'Peach Margaret' was confirmed by Southern DNA analysis. However, no Lc RNA transcripts were detected and no increase in pigmentation was observed in the transformants. In contrast, activity of the nptII transgene in the transformants was confirmed by production of roots in the presence of 20 mg/l kanamycin and challenging leaf explants to regenerate shoots in the presence of 25 mg/l kanamycin. This is the first reported method based on Agrobacterium tumefaciens for genetic transformation of cultivar 'Peach Margaret'.
20065008|Parameters enhancing Agrobacterium-mediated transfer of foreign genes to peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) cells were investigated. An intron-containing -glucuronidase uidA (gusA) gene under the transcriptional control of CaMV 35S promoter served as a reporter. Transformation frequency was evaluated by scoring the number of sectors expressing GUS activity on leaf and epicotyl explants. The 'Valencia Select' market type cv. New Mexico was more amenable to Agrobacterium transformation than the 'runner' market type cultivars tested (Florunner, Georgia Runner, Sunrunner, or South Runner). The disarmed Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA101 was superior in facilitating the transfer of uidA gene to peanut cells compared to the disarmed strain C58. Rinsing of explants in half-strength Murashige-Skoog (MS) media prior to infection by Agrobacterium significantly increased the transformation efficiency. The use of cocultivation media containing high auxin [1.0 or 2.5 mg/l (4.53 M or 11.31 M) 2,4-D] and low cytokinin [0.25 or 0.5 mg/l (1.0 M or 2.0 M) BA] promoted higher transformation than either hormone-free or thidiazuron-containing medium. The polarity of the epicotyl during cocultivation was important; explants incubated in an inverted (vertically) manner followed by a vertically upright position resulted in improved transformation and shoot regeneration frequencies. Preculture of explants in MS basal medium or with 2.5 mg thidiazuron per 1 prior to infection drastically decreased the number of transformed zones. The optimized protocol was used to obtain transient transformation frequencies ranging from 12% to 36% for leaf explants, 15% to 42% for epicotyls. Initial evidence of transformation was obtained by polymerase chain reaction and subsequently confirmed by Southern analysis of regenerated plants.
4293160| Mature embryo axes of the Ohio buckeye were germinated on a medium containing 1 mg gibberellic acid (GA) per l. Three wk following germination, stem, petiole, and leaf blade tissues were excised and placed on media containing either 1 mg (4.5 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4-D) per l, 1 mg (4.7 M) kinetin per l, 1 mg of both 2,4-D (4.5 M) and kinetin (4.7 M) per l, or 2 mg of both 2,4-D (9.1 M) and kinetin (9.3 M) per l. Embryogenic tissue was formed only from stem segments after 2-3 mo. of culture on media containing both 2,4-D and kinetin. Embryogenic tissue could be either maintained on solid medium for proliferation of embryogenic callus or placed in liquid medium for proliferation of embryogenic suspension cultures. For transformation of suspension cultures, tissues were inoculated with Agrobacterium EHA105 containing the binary plasmid Vec035, briefly sonicated, and cultured in the presence of 100 M acetosyringone for 2 d. To eliminate Agrobacterium, tissues were washed and placed in liquid proliferation medium containing either 500 mg Cefotaxime per l or 400 mg Timentin per l. Selection on 20 mg hygromycin per l was initiated 2 wk after inoculation, and after an additional 10 wk, hygromycin-resistant tissue was isolated and separately cultured. Although some hygromycin-resistant clones were recovered with no sonication treatment, four to five times more clones were obtained following sonication. Putative transformed clones were confirmed to be transgenic via both histochemical -glucuronidase (GUS) assay and southern hybridization analyses. Development of transgenic embryos occurred on a growth regulator-free medium containing 3% sucrose. After 2 mo. of embryo development, the embryos were transferred to fresh medium for germination. 
42568433|A genetic transformation method via secondary somatic embryogenesis was developed for alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.). Mature somatic embryos of alfalfa were infected by Agrobacterium strain GV3101 containing the binary vector pCAMBIA2301. pCAMBIA2301 harbors the uidA Gus reporter gene and npt II acts as the selectable marker gene. Infected primary embryos were placed on SH2K medium containing plant growth regulators to induce cell dedifferentiation and embryogenesis under 75 mg/L kanamycin selection. The induced calli were transferred to plant medium free of plant growth regulators for embryo formation while maintaining selection. Somatic embryos germinated normally upon transfer to a germination medium. Plants were recovered and grown in a tissue culture room before transfer to a greenhouse. Histochemical analysis showed high levels of GUS activity in secondary somatic embryos and in different organs of plants recovered from secondary somatic embryos. The presence and stable integration of transgenes in recovered plants were confirmed by polymerase chain reaction using transgene-specific primers and Southern blot hybridization using the npt II gene probe. The average transformation efficiency achieved via secondary somatic embryogenesis was 15.2%. The selection for transformation throughout the cell dedifferentiation and embryogenie callus induction phases was very effective, and no regenerated plants escaped the selection procedure. Alfalfa transformation is usually achieved through somatic embryogenesis using different organs of developed plants. Use of somatic embryos as explants for transformation can avoid the plant development phase, providing a faster procedure for introduction of new traits and facilitates further engineering of previously transformed lines.
4293718|A protocol for in vitro propagation using direct induction of shoot buds from leaf explants of in vitro-raised shoots of Rosa damascena var. Jwala is reported. The present study is the first report on direct shoot regeneration in scented roses. Elite plants raised from nodal explants and maintained for over 2 yr in vitro on a static liquid shoot multiplication Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
42568815|Somatic embryogenesis of Abies alba (Mill.) has significant potential to become an effective method for vegetative propagation of this species. To induce somatic embryogenesis in A. alba, the influence of the mother tree, sampling dates, and cold treatment storage of cones were examined. The initiation frequencies ranged from 1.7% to 16.6%. The sampling date and cone storage, but not the mother tree, had a significant effect on the initiation of embryogenic cultures. Storage of embryogenic cell lines was tested through cryopreservation for 6 yr. Four out of 12 cryostored embryogenic cell lines recovered, and the regeneration of cotyledonary embryos was obtained with two cell lines. The ability of embryogenic cell masses to produce somatic embryos and the mean number of cotyledonary embryos were higher when the maturation protocol was based on embryogenic suspensions dispersed on filter paper. The properly developed germinants were obtained only from maturation media where 32 M abscisic acid was used, being 16.2% when polyethylene glycol (PEG) was not present and 1.8% when supplemented with 10% (w/v) PEG, respectively. The present study provides evidence that it is possible to cryopreserve A. alba embryogenic cultures while maintaining their maturing ability for the lengthy period (6 yr) needed for progeny testing of field-grown trees. Therefore, our findings are important for further studies and advanced breeding work of the species; however, the conversion of germinants into ex vitro conditions still remains a significant challenge.
20064965|Genomic DNA was isolated from in vitro Pinus radiata seedlings with five DNA isolation protocols commonly used for pines. The methods described by Jobes et al. (1995) and Nelson et al. (1994) utilize sodium dodecyl sulfate, whereas those of Murray and Thompson (1980), Doyle and Doyle (1990), and Devey et al. (1996) use cetyltrimethyl ammonium bromide for cell lysis. The quality and quantity of the isolated DNA was measured and compared. Lithium chloride was found to be more effective than RNase for minimizing the amount of RNA present in the solution. Protocols described by Jobes et al. (1995) and Devey et al. (1996) yielded a large quantity of pure DNA which was suitable for restriction enzyme digestion and polymerase chain reaction amplification. With these methods, 37 to 79 g of DNA with an
23326880|Several factors influencing micropropagation of a selected elite clone of Eucalyptus tereticornis Sm. were investigated. Amongst different cytokinins tested, 6-benzyleadenine proved to be the most effective cytokinin for shoot multiplication and elongation. The initial size of the shoot clump (inoculum) also influenced shoot multiplication and elongation. The number of shoots proliferated per culture vessel were significantly higher (342 shoots per culture vessel) when larger shoot clumps (1520 shoots) were inoculated, compared to smaller shoot clumps (45 shoots), which resulted in a reduced shoot proliferation rates (245 shoots per culture vessel). However, the number of elongated shoots (65 per culture vessel) and shoot length (5.23 cm) were higher in cultures which were inoculated with smaller shoot clumps in comparison to those cultures which were inoculated with larger shoot clumps (54 shoots per culture vessel with shoot length of 4.17 cm). The maximum number of rooted shoots (80.7 %) was obtained on one fourth-strength MS medium supplemented with 5.0 M indolebutyric acid. The number of shoots proliferated, elongated, rooting frequency, and subsequent survival of plants after acclimatization were higher in cultures incubated under photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) compared to those incubated under cool fluorescent lights (CFL). Osmotic potential of the sap and chlorophyll content of cultures incubated under PAR were also higher than those incubated under CFL. Following transfer of plants to soil, inoculation with a suspension of Bacillus subtilis (plant growth-promoting bacterium) increased the survival rate of plants by 10 %, yielding successful transfer of 84 % of plants. Random amplified polymorphic DNA and inter simple sequence repeat analyses indicated a high level of clonal uniformity amongst regenerated plants and also with that of the mother plant.
20064867|The objective of the present study on banana plants (Musa AAA Grande Naine cv.), obtained by in vitro shoot tip culture, was to determine whether modifications in chromosome number could account for the appearance of the off-types with mosaiclike leaf defects or dwarf stature, the most frequent off-types observed after micropropagation. Chromosome counts were conducted on shoot tip samples treated with 8-hydroxyquinoline, digested in pectinase and stained with Schiff's reagent. On average, 160 counts were made for each treatment. Four types of plant material were studied: phenotypically true-to-type plants, dwarf off types, mosaiclike off-types obtained by micropropagation, as well as true-to-type plants obtained by standard propagation techniques of suckers with no micropropagation history. Some cells from all four types of plant material were found to have an abnormal chromosome number (i.e., 2n = 3x = 33), characteristic of triploid bananas. The percentages of aneuploid cells were 14%, 22%, 35%, and 5%, respectively. Descending aneuploidy was noted in micropropagated plants derived from true-to-type and dwarf off-type suckers. The statistical analysis revealed that the two latter types of plant material had the same percentage of aneuploid cells. Thus, the dwarfism could not be correlated with a change in the chromosome number. Conversely, ascending aneuploidy was observed in the mosaiclike material, with 34 or 35 chromosomes in almost 28% of the cells. This percentage was significantly higher than in true-to-type plants and highlight the genetic origin of the mosaiclike variation.
29736224|Roots of Primula veris L. contain considerable amounts of triterpene saponins, which are used in medicine as expectorants. P. veris is in many places an endangered plant, and its production in the field is laborious and a low yielding process. Plant tissue culture provides an alternative means for producing secondary metabolites. Shoot apex, callus, suspension, and root cultures of P. veris were developed for saponin production. In these cultures, the content of triterpene saponins, with focus on primula acid I, the most dominant saponin in Primula species, was determined and compared to that in soil-grown plants. The highest content of primula acid I was observed in root cultures, on average 29.5 mg/g dry weight. Some culture lines contained higher amounts of primula acid I (62.6 mg/g dry weight) than the roots of plants grown in soil.
20540992|The in vivo activities of arginine and ornithine decarboxylases, key enzymes in the biosynthesis of putrescine and thus polyamines, were measured in three different cell lines of carrot (Daucus carota) during growth and somatic embryogenesis. The activities of these two enzymes differed in the different cell lines in the presence of various levels of auxin (2,4 dichlorophenoxy acetic acid), but was highest during periods of active cell division. During somatic embryo development, the activities of both enzymes were highest during globular stage formation. Thus, both enzymes were found to be active during growth and somatic embryogenesis and could contribute to polyamine biosynthesis.
20541032|The biofuel industry is rapidly growing because of increasing energy demand and diminishing petroleum reserves on a global scale. A multitude of biomass resources have been investigated, with high-yielding, perennial feedstocks showing the greatest potential for utilization as advanced biofuels. Government policy and economic drivers have promoted the development and commercialization of biofuel feedstocks, conversion technologies, and supply chain logistics. Research and regulations have focused on the environmental consequences of biofuels, greatly promoting systems that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and life-cycle impacts. Numerous biofuel refineries using lignocellulosic feedstocks and biomass-based triglycerides are either in production or pre-commercial development phases. Leading candidate energy crops have been identified, yet require additional efforts to realize their full potential. Advanced biofuels, complementing conventional biofuels and other renewable energy sources such as wind and solar, provide the means to substantially displace humanity's reliance on petroleum-based energy.
40793155|Canola is one of the most important cash crops in Canada, and a national project named "Designing Oilseeds for Tomorrow's Market" was undertaken to improve seed meal quality of this strategically important crop. As a part of this project, our group is focusing on identifying seed coat-specific promoters for canola (Brassica napus). These promoters will be used to genetically modify canola seed coat to reduce or eliminate anti-nutritional components from the meal. The Arabidopsis thaliana BAN promoter (AtBANpro) and VPE promoter (AtVPEpro) were isolated and fused to GUS reporter gene to generate transgenic canola plants. These plants were analyzed by GUS staining and microtome sectioning which showed that both promoters are seed coat-specific in canola: AtBANpro in inner seed coat layer and AtVPEpro in outer seed coat layer. Therefore, the two Arabidopsis promoters can be used to modify genes in seed coat of canola for further improving its seed qualities.
4293513| Using 15 Chinese and Japanese cultivars of sweetpotato, Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam., we succeeded in developing an efficient plant regeneration system from embryogenic suspension cultures. The embryogenic callus derived from shoot apices of the 15 cultivars was used to initiate embryogenic suspension cultures in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 9.05 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Rapidly proliferating and well-dispersed embryogenic suspension cultures were established. Cell aggregates 0.7-1.1 mm in size from embryogenic suspension cultures were transferred to solid MS medium supplemented with 9.05 M of 2,4-D and formed embryogenic callus with somatic embryos. The embryogenic callus with somatic embryos was further transferred to MS medium supplemented with 3.78 M of abscisic acid, resulting in the germination of somatic embryos. Within 20 wk after the initiation, the frequencies of cell aggregates forming plantlets reached approximately 100% for the 15 tested cultivars. These plantlets, when transferred to soil, showed 100% survival. No morphological variations were observed. 
24596339|Zeyheria montana Mart. has become endangered, primarily because of deforestation of its habitat, its use as a medicinal plant extract, and the strong endemism of the species. In this study, an efficient protocol was established for the micropropagation and conservation of Z. montana germplasm using isolated mature zygotic embryos as explants. Embryos germinated in vitro 4 d after isolation and inoculation on modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 2.0 mg/1 gibberellic acid (GA). The addition of GA also improved the germination index and accelerated the process of germination. Nodal segments from seedlings were placed on modified -strength MS medium containing 0.1 mg/1 6-benzyladenine and 0.5 mg/1 GA. Nodal segments produced 7.3 shoots per explant within 60 d. Following transfer of shoots to a medium containing 1.5 mg/1 indole-3-butyric acid, roots formed. All plantlets obtained were successfully acclimatized under greenhouse conditions, and approximately 68.5 acclimatized plants could be obtained per seed each year. This protocol provides a method to preserve this rare and endangered medicinal plant.
4293916|An efficient in vitro propagation system was developed for Arnebia euchroma, an important Chinese traditional medicinal plant. The present study utilized thidiazuron (TDZ) for the induction of shoot organogenesis on cotyledon and hypocotyl explants. The maximal number of shoots was obtained on the modified Linsmaier and Skoog (LS) medium supplemented with
23326877|The influence of various basal medium and plant growth regulators on the efficient micropropagation of nodal explants from mature trees of alemow, sour orange, and 'Cleopatra' mandarin citrus rootstocks was studied. All three citrus rootstock shoot cultures showed a preference for high-salt media, like Murashige and Skoog or Driver and Kuniyuki Walnut medium. Several combinations of N 6 -benzyladenine (BA) and adenine (AD), kinetin (KIN) or gibberellic acid (GA) were tested to optimize the shoot proliferation phase. BA/GA combinations improved the proliferation of all the rootstocks studied, especially alemow. The addition of BA and AD to the culture medium improved shoot proliferation in sour orange and 'Cleopatra' mandarin in the same way as BA and GA. The addition of different combinations of BA/KIN did not result in further improvement of any of the studied variables. The transfer of in vitro shoots to rooting media, containing different concentrations of indolebutyric acid (IBA) and indoleacetic acid (IAA), resulted in regeneration of complete plantlets. Alemow and 'Cleopatra' mandarin shoots rooted well using these plant growth regulators; however, all combinations of IBA and IAA tested resulted in very low rooting percentages in sour orange. To improve rooting in sour orange and 'Cleopatra' mandarin, different combinations of naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and IBA were tested. All NAA/IBA combinations produced higher rooting percentages than did the IBA/IAA combinations, and in sour orange nearly 100 % of explants developed roots. An efficient and simple protocol for the micropropagation of three citrus rootstocks, alemow, 'Cleopatra' mandarin, and sour orange, by culturing nodes from mature plants, has been established.
4293645| Factors affecting in vitro shoot production and regeneration of Cercis yunnanensis Hu et Cheng were investigated by comparing various growth regulators and explant types. For optimum shoot production from axillary buds, Murashige and Skoog (MS) media containing 6-benzyladenine, either alone or in combination with a low concentration of thidiazuron, resulted in the greatest number of shoots formed per explant (>3). Explants (2 mm long) containing one axillary bud placed in direct contact with the medium yielded the most shoots per bud (1.6) when grown on growth regulator-free medium. Root formation on 70-80% of shoot explants was accomplished using either indole-3-butyric acid or -naphthaleneacetic acid in the medium, with significantly more roots formed on explants possessing an apical bud than those without the bud. Direct shoot organogenesis from leaf explants occurred on MS medium containing 10-30 M thidiazuron, with up to 42% of leaf explants producing shoots. 
4293918|Structure and ultrastructure changes that occurred during tissue culture of upper explants of hypocotyl (adjacent to cotyledons) of 10-d-old seedlings of Gentiana cruciata were studied. The explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog induction medium supplemented with
23321149|Since the first report of wheat transformation in the early 1990s, genetic engineering of wheat has evolved rapidly. Several laboratories worldwide have reported the production of fertile transgenic wheat plants using a variety of methods. While there are several innovative and promising approaches for wheat transformation using different explants as targets for transformation, different methods of transformation, and different selection schemes, the most common approach to wheat transformation is the bombardment of tissue derived from immature embryos followed by selection based on resistance to the bar gene. Even with all these successful reports, hurdles still exist for this recalcitrant crop. Of these hurdles, low transformation rates, tools for transgene expression, and transgene silencing in subsequent generations are probably the most critical. This review will provide an overview of wheat transformation in the past decade, addressing both positive and negative factors that effect transformation while highlighting the successes of the past and prospects for the future.
4293253|Image analysis tools were developed to measure biomass concentration, aggregate size and distribution, and pigmentation from anthocyanin-producing cell suspension cultures of ohelo (Vaccinium pahalae). The ex situ imaging system could image cell aggregates from 30  m to 2 mm in diameter. The image analysis algorithm was based on extracted geometric features and morphological methods for biomass volume estimates, and hue, saturation, and intensity color characteristics for pigmentation estimates. Detailed information available from sampled cell culture images was validated by comparison to standard destructive manual measurements. Image analysis measurements revealed that pigment accumulation was negatively correlated with aggregate size. Although a substantial proportion of small aggregates remained colorless, the highly-pigmented small aggregates, 18 to
20461737|Leaf piece explants of five Brassica juncea (L.) Czern. cultivars were transformed with an Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105 harboring the plasmid pCAMBIA1301, which contains the -glucuronidase (uidA) and hygromycin phosphotransferase (hpt) genes under the control of cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (CaMV35S) promoter. Transgenic plants were regenerated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium fortified with 8.87 M 6-benzylaminopurine, 0.22 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, and 20 M silver nitrate in the presence of 30 mg/l hygromycin. When co-culture took place in the presence of 100 M acetosyringone, the efficiency of stable transformation was found to be approximately 19% in the T generation, with the transgenic plants and their progeny showing constitutive GUS expression in different plant organs. Southern blot hybridization of uidA and hpt genes confirmed transgene integration within the genome of transformed plants of each cultivar. Inheritance of hpt gene for single copy T-DNA inserts showed a 3:1 pattern of Mendelian segregation in progeny plants through germination of T seeds on MS medium containing 30 mg/l hygromycin. The protocol described here reports superior transformation efficiency over previously published protocols and should contribute to enhanced biotechnology applications in B. juncea.
4293728|Christmas bush (Ceratopetalum gummiferum Sm) is a shrubby tree species of the east coast of New South Wales in Australia. It is much prized as a cut flower crop because of its bright, pinky red floral calyces. New varieties are being developed, the storage of which is an important issue. In this study, it was shown that shoot tips sampled from in vitro plantlets withstood cryopreservation using the encapsulation-dehydration technique. The protocol leading to optimal regrowth was the following: excised shoot tips were pretreated for 1 d in the dark on hormone-free Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 0.3 M sucrose, then encapsulated in 3% calcium alginate and precultured in liquid MS medium with 0.5 M sucrose for 3 d. Precultured beads were dehydrated for 6 h in the air current of the laminar flow cabinet to 24.3% moisture content (fresh weight basis) before rapid immersion in liquid nitrogen. Under these conditions, regrowth of shoot tips after cryopreservation reached 61.4%. Regrowth of cryopreserved shoot tips was not affected by the period of cold acclimation of in vitro mother plants.
4293456| Somatic embryos of sweet potato have potential as synthetic seeds. The effects of abscisic acid (ABA) (0.0, 0.1, 1.0, 10.0 and 50.0 M) were examined to improve synchrony and proliferation of somatic embryos. Transferring embryonic cultures at day 7 to solid medium with 0.1 or 1.0 M ABA produced more torpedo and cotyledonary somatic embryos compared to those cultures transferred at day 0. The development of embryos in suspension culture supplemented with ABA was poor. However, when calli proliferation cultures were in gelled medium and pulsed with 0.1 M ABA for 14 d, the number of somatic embryos increased. Proembryonic masses cultured in mannitol-containing medium (Y = -1.5 MPa) increased embryo development and synchrony of embryo development. Thus, in this work ABA and mannitol have been shown to improve both the total number and the synchrony of sweet potato somatic embryos. 
23321166|Ten cultivars of tomato were screened for their ability to produce shoots and shoot primordia on media containing a range of 6-benzyladenine (BA) concentrations (0.04.0 mgl-1; 0.017.7 M) in combination with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA; 0.0, 0.1, 0.2 mgl-1; 0.0, 0.57, 1.14 M, respectively). Both genotypes and growth regulator levels showed significant differences at  = 0.05. However, their interaction was not significantly different. A comparison of the mean number of shoots produced six cultivar classes, with UC82, UC97-3, Castlerock, Red Rock, and Peto86 producing the highest means. There were four cultivar frequency classes, the highest including cultivars Peto Rock (93.7%), Red Rock (93.7%), Peto86 (92.3%), and Strain B (90.7%). Growth regulator mean comparisons produced eight classes, the highest included three different BA/IAA combinations, with media containing 2.0 mgl-1 (8.87 M) BA and 0.2 mgl-1 (1.14 M) IAA giving the highest mean and frequency (94.1%). The effect of carbon source was studied using glucose, fructose, maltose, and sucrose at 3.0% concentration. Three high regenerating genotypes and four media were used in combination with each sugar. Sugars were significantly different with maltose giving the highest number of shoots (31.6) followed by glucose (20.9). Growth regulator means, sugargrowth regulator interaction, and cultivarsugar interaction were significant. A three-way interaction was nonsignificant. The effect of maltose and sucrose concentration (1.59.0%) showed the positive effect of maltose over sucrose in inducing shoots and in reducing loss rates of shoots on the regeneration media. Maltose at 1.5, 3.0, and 4.5% was the most effective. Six pH values (4.06.5) were used to test their effect on shoot induction in three cultivars (Peto86, UC97-3 and Castlerock). pH effects and cultivarpH interaction were not significant.
20541027|The BioEnergy Science Center, a nationally and internationally peer-reviewed center of leading scientific institutions and scientists, is organized and in operation as a U.S. Department of Energy Bioenergy Research Center. This Oak Ridge National Laboratory-led Center has members from top-tier universities, leading national labs, and private companies organized as a single project team, with each member chosen for its significant contributions in the Center's research focus areas. The recalcitrance of cellulosic biomass is viewed as (1) the most significant obstacle to the establishment of a cellulosic biofuels industry, (2) essential to producing cost-competitive fuels, and (3) widely applicable, since nearly all biofuels and biofeedstocks would benefit from such advances. The mission of the BioEnergy Science Center is to make revolutionary advances in understanding and overcoming the recalcitrance of biomass to conversion into sugars, making it feasible to displace petroleum with ethanol and other fuels.
4293926| -Zein is one of the seed storage proteins of maize that is high in methionine (Met). In alfalfa, the -zein gene driven by the CaMV 35S promoter showed an 8-fold lower level of transcript and protein when compared with the level in tobacco transformed with the same gene construct. The reporter gene (GUS) driven by the CaMV 35S promoter showed only a 4-fold difference between alfalfa and tobacco, suggesting that the expression of the -zein gene is posttranscriptionally regulated in alfalfa. Callus of alfalfa transformants with the -zein gene construct treated with exogenous Met, showed a significant increase in the -zein level, suggesting that free Met may be limiting in the synthesis of -zein in alfalfa. The introduction of the Arabidopsis thaliana cystathionine -synthase (AtCS) gene driven by the CaMV 35S promoter into alfalfa showed a significant increase in the level of free Met and its metabolite, S-methyl methionine (SMM), but not in the bound fraction. Coexpression of AtCS and -zein in alfalfa increased the level of -zein transcript and protein and decreased free Met, which suggests that the -zein is posttranscriptionally regulated by free Met. The expression of AtCS in tobacco did not produce a significant increase in free Met or SMM and coexpression of AtCS and -zein did not result in changes in the -zein level. The results demonstrate the efficacy of the synergistic approach of increasing both the sink and the source for increasing the levels of high Met -zein. 
40663775|Cell cultures of Ruta graveolens L. were used as a model system to study the relationship between cellular organization and furanocoumarin production. Relative contributions of individual cells were traced using a combination of biochemical and localization techniques in three types of cell cultures: dispersed, aggregated, and organized. The proportion of relative furanocoumarins produced varied with the organization level in cultures. Productive population in dispersed cell culture was 10% which increased to 17% and to 35% in aggregated and organized cell cultures, respectively. Large cell clusters accumulating furanocoumarins were restricted to organized cell cultures. In these lines, sites for psoralen, bergapten, and xanthotoxin accumulation were spatially separated from each other, which has been reported for the first time. Variation in production was due to change in relative size of productive population in the three types of cultures studied. A model has been proposed for differential furanocoumarin producing ability of cells based on differentiation levels.
4293752|The capacity of cultured plant tissues and cells to undergo morphogenesis, resulting in the formation of discrete organs or whole plants, has provided opportunities for numerous applications of in vitro plant biology in studies of basic botany, biochemistry, propagation, breeding, and development of transgenic crops. While the fundamental techniques to achieve in vitro plant morphogenesis have been well established for a number of years, innovations in particular aspects of the technology continue to be made. Tremendous progress has been made in recent years regarding the genetic bases underlying both in vitro and in situ plant morphogenesis, stimulated by progress in functional genomics research. Advances in the identification of specific genes that are involved in plant morphogenesis in vitro, as well as some selected technical innovations, will be discussed.
20541043|Cereals provide more than half the world population's calorific intake, and have a variety of other important uses as food and beverage ingredients, livestock feeds, and as sources of renewable energy and industrial components. The technology to genetically modify many important cereals is now well-established, thereby presenting new opportunities to produce cereals with enhanced quality and novel properties. In 2007, GM (genetically modified) maize with insect and herbicide resistance was grown on over 30 million hectares worldwide, yet to date, there are no GM cereals with enhanced or novel grain (end-use) qualities being grown in commercial farmers' fields. This review will discuss some of the latest GM technology developments reported to enhance the quality of cereals for food and other uses. Developments and opportunities involving gene manipulation for starch and protein quality, as well as non-starch polysaccharides, phenolic compounds and micronutrients will also be discussed. The current paucity of GM cereals with enhanced grain quality is not related to the absence of technological progress, rather it is the regulatory and consumer acceptance issues that have slowed the release of these crops.
4293136|Embryogenic nucellar cultures were established on B5 major salts, MS minor salts and organics,
4293725|The life table of a local strain of grape phylloxera was determined to evaluate the resistance of the most commonly used rootstocks: Ru140, R99, and 3309C, and one local variety 'Helwani'. The study was carried out by applying both in vitro dual culture and small root pieces testing systems. The results showed that there was a great variation in percentage mortality of immature stages, number of eggs laid, adult fertility, oviposition period, and developmental time between all tested rootstocks and the local variety, regardless of the applied testing systems. Based on the population prediction, Helwani would be a suitable host as it would be susceptible to the destructive insects in the field and the rootstocks would be resistant. However, Ru140 rootstock was more susceptible than R99 and 3309C rootstocks.
4293656| Efficient in vitro propagation of Ceropegia candelabrum L. (Asclepidaceae) through somatic embryogenesis was established. Somatic embryogenesis depended on the type of plant growth regulators in the callus-inducing medium. Friable callus, developed from leaf and internode explants grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 4.52 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), underwent somatic embryogenesis. Compared to solid media, suspension culture was superior and gave rise to a higher number of somatic embryos. Transfer of the friable callus developed on MS medium containing 4.52 M 2,4-D to suspension cultures of half- or quarter-strength MS medium with lower levels of 2,4-D (0.23 or 0.45 M) induced the highest number of somatic embryos, which developed up to the torpedo stage. Somatic embryogenesis was asynchronous with the dominance of globular embryos. About 100 mg of callus induced more than 500 embryos. Upon transfer to quarter-strength MS agar medium without growth regulators, 50% of the somatic embryos underwent maturation and developed into plantlets. Plantlets acclimatized under field conditions with 90% survival. 
20541050|Somatic embryogenesis and subsequent plant regeneration were established from hypocotyl and internode explants collected from in vitro-grown seedlings and in vitro-proliferated shoots, respectively. Somatic embryogenesis was significantly influenced by the types of auxin and cytokinin. Friable calluses with somatic embryos developed well in Murashige and Skoog basal (MS) medium supplemented with 0.8-8.8 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 2.0-8.0 M 2,4-dichlorophexoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The maximal frequency of embryogenic callus and somatic embryo formation were obtained when the MS medium was amended with 8.8 M BA and 4.0 M 2,4-D. The best embryo germination occurred in a hormone-free 1/2-MS medium. The highest percentage of shoot proliferation was observed in embryogenic calluses in MS medium containing 2.0 M BA and 1.0 M NAA. In vitro-grown shoots were rooted in MS medium with 0.5-2.0 M indole-3-butyric acid. Regenerants were transferred to vermiculite and successfully established under an ex vitro environment in garden soil.
20064807|Responses to low Fe were characterized in tissue cultures of Pyrus amygdaliformis and Cydonia oblonga (quince), two species used as rootstocks for pear. Cultured shoots and plantlets of P. amygdaliformis had a higher chlorophyll concentration and
4292961|Haworthia comptoniana specimens were cultured to determine how benzyladenine (BA) level and in vitro selection for shoot and callus production affected regeneration capacity and plant phenotype. Leaf expiants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium containing
4293781| The effect of abscisic acid (ABA) was evaluated during the maturation and germination of holm oak (Quercus ilex L.) somatic embryos. The addition of ABA to the culture medium significantly reduced unwanted recurrent embryogenesis in mature somatic embryos without affecting the germination of embryos subjected to stratification at 4C. Stratification at 4C for 2 mo. was the most efficient for stimulating somatic embryo germination of holm oak. The addition of 90 and 450 mM sucrose also improved germination, while higher sucrose concentrations were inhibitory. 
23321169|The importance of neem (Azadirachta indica A. Juss.) as a medicinal tree species has been acknowledged worldwide. Superior trees with desired traits such as high azadirachtin content have been identified and micropropagated. Somaclonal variants that may arise in vitro, however, pose limitations to large-scale micropropagation. It is, therefore, imperative to establish genetic uniformity of such plantlets by ensuring strict quality checks at various stages of in vitro culture. This is the first study that evaluates the applicability of amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) markers in establishing clonal fidelity of tissue culture(TC)-raised neem plants. Seven AFLP primer combinations generated a total of 334 amplified fragments across the mother plant, TC progenies, and other neem accessions that were included as controls. Two hundred and thirty-nine amplified fragments were monomorphic across the mother tree and its TC progenies. No extra band was detected in the TC plantlets that was absent in the mother tree, indicating that the TC plantlets regenerated through nodal explants are indeed true-to-type. Ninety-five AFLP fragments were detected in the controls, which allowed their discrimination from the elite mother tree and its TC progenies. Similarity matrix based on Jaccard's coefficient revealed that the pair-wise value between the mother tree and its TC plantlets was '1', indicating perfect similarity. Phenetic dendrogram based on UPGMA (unweighted pair group method of arithmetic averages) analysis further confirmed the true-to-type nature of TC progenies, since a tie was observed between the mother tree and its TC plantlets. On the contrary, the control neem accessions were distinct from the mother and its TC progenies. AFLP markers proved to be an ideal tool for routine analysis and certification of genetic fidelity of micropropagated plants prior to commercialization, especially in tree species because of their long generation time.
23321150|Poor adventitious root formation is a major obstacle in micropropagation and in conventional propagation. This paper reviews recent progress in the understanding of adventitious root formation as a developmental process focusing on the role of plant hormones and on the effect of rooting conditions on plant performance. Since the discovery of the rhizogenic effect of auxin ca. 70 yr ago, no new broadly applicable rooting treatments have been developed. Recent research, though, may lead to new rooting procedures. Application of wounding-related compounds may be effective in difficult-to-root crops. Furthermore, by adapting conditions during the propagation phase, microcuttings with an enhanced capability to root may be produced. These conditions include elongation of stems (by etiolation or double-layer culture) and repeated subculture (rejuvenation; i.e., transition from adult to juvenile). Data are presented that show that during tissue culture maturation (transition from juvenile to adult) also occurs. The conditions during the in vitro rooting treatment may have a tremendous effect on performance after transfer ex vitro. In particular, accumulation of ethylene during in vitro rooting may have a devastating effect. Addition of stress-protecting compounds during propagation or rooting in vitro may enhance the performance ex vitro.
41496510|Centella asiatica (Apiaceae) is an important medicinal herb used in a variety of herbal medicines worldwide. Although the whole plant contains important triterpenoids, a significant quantity of pharmacologically important phytochemicals collectively known as centellosides can be extracted from leaf tissues and not from other parts of this plant. Asiaticoside is one of the major centellosides and is used in holistic medicine for treating a variety of human ailments. Genotypes of C. asiatica of Indian origin accumulate significant quantities of asiaticoside in their roots, while genotypes from other continents contain insignificant quantities of this chemical. The main purpose of this study was to manipulate the leaf-derived callus of asiatica using a combination of plant growth regulators to generate a large quantity of adventitious roots. The presence of asiaticoside in callus and regenerated roots of asiatica was detected by thin layer chromatography as well as by high-performance liquid chromatography, and the accumulation of a significant quantity of asiaticoside was demonstrated by spectrophotometric analysis. The protocol developed for the regeneration of roots was simple, reproducible, and reliable for the possible commercial production of root biomass enriched for asiaticoside.
4293353| Maturation of somatic embryos of Pinus strobus L. was evaluated on media containing various types (agars and gellan gum), brands and concentrations of gelling agents in the presence of 80 M ABA and 0.09 M sucrose. The media were characterized with respect to gel strength, water potential and water availability. Embryogenic tissue and somatic embryos cultured on medium with various concentrations of gellan gum were used to determine their water potential (). Regardless of the type of gelling agent used, gel strength increased with gelling agent concentration and was critical to the maturation response. High gel strength was associated with reduced water availability from the medium to the cultures. The water potential of gelled maturation medium remained constant between 0.4 and 1.0% gellan gum. It is concluded that the embryogenic tissue was exposed to varying amounts of water at the onset of and during the culture period, and that the amount of water in the culture environment in turn influenced the maturation response. Cotyledonary somatic embryos derived from gellan gum medium of high gel strength had a lower  than somatic embryos matured on medium of lower gel strength. Once somatic embryos developed to the cotyledonary stage on the maturation medium, they were transferred to the germination medium. The germination frequency and the number of morphologically normal germinants were higher for somatic embryos matured on medium of high gel strength. Raising the concentration of the gelling agent in the maturation medium may be an alternative to the use of solutes to restrict water available to the embryogenic cultures. 
25623039|Pea (Pisum sativum L. cv. Espace) seeds directly cultured on thidiazuron (TDZ)-containing medium formed high numbers of shoots. The number of shoots per seedling depended on the concentration and duration of the TDZ treatment. The best treatment was 12-wk incubation on MS medium supplemented with 4 mg/l TDZ followed by 4-wk culture on MS medium supplemented with 0.5 mg/l benzylaminopurine (BA) and produced more than 400 shoots/seedling. Isolated shoots rooted at a high frequency on MS medium containing 2-3 mg/l indole-3-butyric acid and 2 mg/l -naphthalene acetic acid. In addition to the formation of shoots, bud-containing tissues (BCT) were formed at the cotyledonary nodes, shoot nodes, tendrils, stipules, and internodes. The BCT from the cotyledonary nodes and the shoot nodes was maintained in its pure state on MS medium supplemented with 4 mg/l TDZ by repeated culture. Shoot development was accomplished when the BCT were left on MS medium supplemented with 4 mg/l TDZ without subculture prior to transfer onto MS medium supplemented with 0.5 mg/l BA.
20064871|Plant regeneration was achieved from both a spontaneous clone (Bragana) and Brewer's Gold variety of Humulus lupulus. The results obtained for these two different genotypes were compared. The organogenic ability of petiole and stem segments was tested on three different basal media supplemented with 0.025 mg (0.14 M) indole-3-acetic acid/L and 2 mg (8.87 M) 6-benzylaminopurine (N-benzyladenine)/L. These conditions induced rather heterogeneous responses, which depended mainly on the explant source and the genotype. Because of the high organogenic competence revealed by the spontaneous clone on modified Murashige and Skoog medium, several hormones in different combinations were tested to optimize conditions for adventitious shoot regeneration in this clone. The best relation between the average shoot number/callus and the regeneration rate was achieved with 0.025 mg (0.14 M) indole-3-acetic acid/L and 2 mg (8.87 M) 6-benzylaminopurine/L or with 0.02 mg (0.11 M) indole-3-acetic acid/L and 1.5 mg (6.97 M) kinetin/L, which enabled 72 and 59% of regeneration, respectively. The regenerated plantlets could be acclimatized with 90% success.
42568803|Pear accessions and species show a broad response to tissue culture media due to the wide genetic diversity that exists in the available pear germplasm. An initial study of mineral nutrition using a systematic response surface approach with five Murashige and Skoog medium mineral stock solutions indicated that the mesos factor (CaCl, MgSO, and KHPO) affected most plant responses and genotypes, suggesting that additional studies were needed to further optimize these three mesos components for a wide range of genotypes. Short stature, leaf spots, edge necrosis, and red or yellow coloration were the main symptoms of poor nutrition in shoot cultures of 10 diverse pear genotypes from six species. A surface response experimental design was used to model the optimal factor and factor levels for responses that included overall quality, leaf character, shoot multiplication, and shoot height. The growth morphology, shoot length, and multiplication of these pear shoots could be manipulated by adjusting the mesos components. The highest quality for the majority of genotypes, including five P. communis cultivars, P. koehnei, P. dimorphophylla, and P. pyrifolia 'Sion Szu Mi', required higher concentrations (>1.2  to 2.5  ) of all the components than are present in Murashige and Skoog medium. 'Capital' (P. calleryana) required high CaCl and MgSO with low KHPO; for 'Hang Pa Li' (P. ussuriensis), low CaCl and moderate to low MgSO and KHPO produced high-quality shoots. Suitable combinations of the meso nutrients produced both optimum shoot number and shoot length in addition to general good plant quality.
23321163|Four cytokinins (CKs), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and its ester and amino conjugates, and abscisic acid (ABA) levels of two bromeliads, Ananas comosus (L.) Merril and Vriesea gigantea Gaudich., grown in 5 mM (NH)SO or urea as the sole nitrogen (N) form, were investigated. In both bromeliads, zeatin (Z) and zeatin riboside ([9R]Z) were the most abundant CKs. In A. comosus, CKs levels decreased drastically (12 times) after 7 and 30 d in media with ammonium and urea, respectively. After 3 d in media with N, V. gigantea CK levels decreased 30 and 20 times in the presence of ammonium and urea, respectively. N-starved A. comosus and V. gigantea exhibited similar ABA levels, but ABA decreased faster in V. gigantea when plants were transferred to media with N. Free IAA levels decreased until the 15th and 30th day when A. comosus was transferred to a medium with ammonium and urea, respectively. N-starved A. comosus amide, ester, and free IAA amounted to 81%, 14%, and 4%, respectively. There was a transient increase in the proportion of amide IAA and a corresponding decrease of the ester and the free IAA proportion when N-starved plants were transferred to media with N. The relationship between the internal hormonal patterns and the different ecological adaptations of the two bromeliads are discussed.
42568877|Varronia curassavica is cultivated for the production of an essential oil useful in the pharmaceutical industry for its strong anti-inflammatory effect. Despite a growing demand, only a few studies have evaluated alternative sources of obtaining plantlets or ways to increase the yield of essential oil from this species. Therefore, this study aimed to optimize the in vitro multiplication rate and analyze the histochemistry and sesquiterpene production potential of conventionally propagated V. curassavica plants, in vitro shoots, and acclimatized plants derived from in vitro shoots. For axillary bud proliferation, Murashige and Skoog medium was supplemented with 6-benzyladenine and thidiazuron alone or in combination with naphthalene acetic acid. Axillary bud proliferation was obtained from culture of nodal or apical segments on medium containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog salts without growth regulators. After 35 d of culture, an average of five buds developed per expiant. Elongation and rooting of shoots also occurred in this medium. After the transfer of rooted plants to ex vitro conditions, 100% of the plantlets survived. Histochemical analysis of leaf tissue showed the presence of lipids, acidic lipids, essential oil, phenols, and flavonoids. The essential oils from conventionally propagated and acclimatized plants were extracted by hydrodistillation and analyzed using gas chromatography. The essential oil from acclimatized plants had a similar profile to that from ex vitro plants, but with a higher concentration of the anti-inflammatory compound alpha-humulene.
4293836|In wild-type Scopolia parviflora (Solanaceae) tissues, only the roots express the enzyme putrescine N-methyltransferase (PMT; EC 2.1.1.53), which is the first specific precursor of the tropane alkaloids. Moreover, the tropane alkaloid levels were the highest in the root (
4293039|Lepidopteran insects are major defoliating pests of soybean in the southeastern United States. Soybean plants transgenic for a native cryIA(b) gene from Bacillus thuringiensis var. kurstaki HD-1 were obtained. Embryogenic cultures were induced by plating cotyledons on a Murashige and Skoog-based medium supplemented with 40 mg/liter of 2,4-dichloro-phenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). The embryogenic cultures were maintained in liquid medium containing 5 mg/liter 2,4-D. These cultures were subjected to microprojectile bombardment, followed by selection on 50 mg/liter hygromycin. Resistant embryogenic cell lines were transferred to growth regulator-free medium to permit recovery of mature somatic embryos. After a desiccation period, the somatic embryos were returned to growth regulator-free medium for conversion into plants. Southern hybridization analysis verified transformation. Feeding assays of T
20461664|A three-stage procedure for embryogenesis in Trachyspermum ammi was developed from cotyledon and cotyledonary node explants cultured in Murashige and Skoog (MS) liquid medium supplemented with 0.2 mg l 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Globular somatic embryos without intervening callus phase developed in 4 wk. The development of embryos to heart and torpedo stages required second-stage subculture of the explants (along with developing embryos) in liquid medium with lower concentrations of 2,4-D. Further development of embryos required a third-stage subculture in hormone-free liquid medium supplemented with 100 mg l casein hydrolysate. Regeneration of complete plantlets occurred after the fully developed somatic embryos were transferred to solidified half-strength MS medium supplemented with 1 mg l gibberellic acid.
23326884|The effects of L-phenylalanine (PHE) on cell growth and production of shikonin and its derivatives, acetylshikonin (ACS) and isobutyrylshikonin (IBS), in suspension cultures of Arnebia euchroma were examined. Supplementing media using PHE have been successfully utilized to enhance shikonin production in cell cultures of other species of Boraginaceae. L-Phenylalanine, the key compound in the phenylpropanoid pathway, is converted by phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL) to trans-cinnamic acid, which is the precursor of p-hydroxybenzoic acid (PHB). Coupling of PHB and geranyl pyrophosphate (derived from mevalonate pathway) by p-hydroxybenzoate-m-geranyltransferase leads later to biosynthesis of shikonins. The addition of 0.01 or 0.1 mM PHE to the culture medium stimulated cell proliferation, where the highest observed increase in fresh cell biomass (measured as a ratio of final weight to initial weight) was 12-fold, in contrast to an eightfold increase in control cultures. Whereas, growth media supplemented with 1 mM PHE markedly reduced the rate of cell growth (to only twofold). Precursor feeding had detrimental effects on both ACS and IBS production in all PHE-supplemented media. The highest total content (intracellular + extracellular) of the investigated red pigments (9.5 mg per flask) was detected in the control culture without PHE. ACS was the major component of the naphthoquinone fraction determined in cells and post-culture media. Shikonin itself was found only in the post-culture media from cultures supplemented with 0.01 or 0.1 mM PHE. Increases in PAL activity corresponded well with the accumulation of investigated naphthoquinones in control culture. However, peak PAL activity did not directly correlate with maximum production of shikonin derivatives. Cytotoxicity of extracts, prepared from the cells cultivated in the presence of PHE or in control cultures, was tested on three cancer cell lines: HL-60, HeLa, and MCF-7. The extracts prepared from the untreated control cultures proved to be the most potent against the examined cancer cell lines. The mean inhibitory concentration values were 0.3, 13, and 8 g ml -1 for the HL-60, HeLa, and MCF-7 cells, respectively.
4293843|Plant protoplasts provide an enabling technology to underpin aspects of development, physiology, and genetics. Reliable procedures are available to isolate and culture protoplasts from monocotyledons and dicotyledons. Several parameters influence the totipotency of protoplasts and their derived cells, particularly the source tissue, culture medium, and environmental factors. Novel approaches to maximize the efficiency of protoplast-to-plant systems include techniques already established for animal and microbial cells, such as electrostimulation and exposure of protoplasts to surfactants and artificial respiratory gas carriers, especially perfluorochemicals and hemoglobin. Somatic hybridization by protoplast fusion is undergoing a resurgence of interest, since it enables nuclear and cytoplasmic genomes to be combined at the interspecific and intergeneric levels without prior knowledge of gene location, or involvement of recombinant DNA technology. DNA uptake into protoplasts has applications in transient and stable transformation, including the generation of transplastomic plants of commercial importance in molecular pharming. Other applications of isolated protoplasts are in studies of membrane function, cell structure, and longer-term toxicological assessments. Despite the century that has elapsed since protoplasts were first isolated, they still make a significant contribution to many aspects of modern plant biotechnology.
20171608| Growth and physiological responses of date palm, Phoenix dactylifera L. cv. Barhee, callus to salinity stress were examined. Callus induced from shoot tips of offshoots was cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with NaCl at concentrations ranging from 0 to 225 mM, in consecutive increments of 25 mM. Data obtained after 6 wk of exposure to salt have shown a significant increase in callus proliferation in response to 25 mM NaCl, the lowest level tested, beyond which callus weight decreased. At 125 mM NaCl and higher, callus growth was nearly completely inhibited. Physiological studies on callus exposed to salt stress have shown an increase in proline accumulation in response to increased salinity. Proline accumulation was correlated to callus growth inhibition. Furthermore, increasing the concentration of NaCl in the culture medium generally resulted in a steady increase in Na and reduction in K concentrations. However, at 25 mM NaCl, the only level at which callus growth was significantly enhanced, an increase in K content was noted in comparison to the NaCl-free control. In response to increasing external NaCl level, the Na/K ratio increased. The Na/K ratio was positively correlated to proline accumulation and hence callus growth inhibition. This study provides an understanding of the response of date palm callus to salinity, which is important for future studies aimed at developing strategies for selecting and characterizing somaclonal variants tolerant to salt stress. 
4292982| All parts of leafy spurge seedlings can be regenerated when isolated and placed onto B5 medium. One-centimeter isolated hypocotyl segments were tested successfully for their usefulness as a bioassay system by comparing the response of auxins, herbicides, and cytokinins. Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) was the most effective auxin to stimulate root formation. IAA was effective whether the hypocotyl segments remained on the same medium up to 60 days, or the segments were transferred to basal media after 2 or 5 days (pulse treatment). Pulse treatments with the other auxins resulted in stimulation of root formation; continuous or 5-day pulses of higher concentrations of indole-3-butyric acid, -naphthaleneacetic acid and especially 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and picloram formed excessive callus instead of roots. Picloram did not stimulate root formation, whether the treatment was continuous or pulse-treated. No roots formed with continuous picloram at 0.1 mg/liter or greater, but transfer to basal media did result in root and shoot formation at about 50% of the number formed on the controls. Lesser picloram concentrations had no effect. Shoots formed readily on untreated (control) segments, but continuous treatment with all three cytokinins, kinetin, zeatin, and zeatin riboside, increased the numbers of shoots about equally. Root formation was inhibited by the cytokinins at the higher concentrations (0.1 to 0.2 mg/liter). With the exception of a 5-day pulse of 0.04 mg/liter IAA, the auxins did not stimulate shoot formation, but generally inhibited shoot formation, even in pulse-treated cultures. 
4293854| The influence of donor plant growth environment, microspore development stage, culture media and incubation conditions on microspore embryogenesis was studied in three Indian B. juncea varieties. The donor plants were grown under varying environments: field conditions, controlled conditions, or a combination of the two. The correlation analysis between the bud size and microspore development stage revealed that the bud size is an accurate marker for donor plants grown under controlled conditions, however, the same does not hold true for the field-grown plants. The buds containing late uninucleate microspores collected from plants grown under normal field conditions up to bolting stage and then transferred to controlled environment were observed to be most responsive with genotypic variability ranging from 10 to 35 embryos per Petri dish, irrespective of the other factors. NLN medium containing 13% sucrose was found to be most suitable for induction of embryogenesis. The fortification of this medium with activated charcoal, polyvinylpyrrolidone, colchicine, or growth regulators (6-benzylaminopurine and 1-naphthaleneacetic acid) was observed to be antagonistic for microspore embryogenesis, while silver nitrate (10 M) had a significant synergistic effect. A post-culture high-temperature incubation of microspores at 32.5  1C for 10-15 d was found most suitable for high-frequency production of microspore embryos. The highest frequency of microspore embryogenesis (78 embryos per Petri dish) was observed from the late uninucleate microspores (contained in bud sizes 3.1-3.5 mm irrespective of genotype) cultured on NLN medium containing 13% sucrose and silver nitrate (10 M), and incubated at 32.5C for 10-15d. 
4293927|Experiments were conducted to determine the effects of brassinosteroids on microspore embryogenesis in Brassica species. Two compounds, 24-epibrassinolide (EBR) and brassinolide (BL), were evaluated. An increase in embryogenesis was observed in all Brassica napus lines evaluated, including Topas 4079 and several recalcitrant cultivars: Garrison, Westar, and Allons. Microspore embryogenesis, calculated as the number of embryos at 21 d of culture, was increased in the recalcitrant cultivars up to 12 times that of the control. An increase in microspore embryogenesis was also observed for B. juncea when EBR or BL was added to the culture medium. In contrast, no significant increase in embryogenesis was observed for several other Brassica species evaluated (i.e. B. carinata, B. nigra, and B. rapa). The addition of brassinosteroids to the induction media did not affect the subsequent conversion of the embryos to plantlets, but did appear to influence chromosome doubling.
42568791|A successful cryopreservation protocol for the longterm conservation of protocorms of two threatened and vulnerable orchids, Cymbidium eburneum Lindl. and Cymbidium hookerianum Rchb. f, was developed using encapsulationdehydration.Protocorms were osmoprotected in liquid Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) containing 0.7 M sucrose for 20 h at 252C on a rotary shaker, and incorporated into an encapsulation matrix [consisting of 3% (w/) sodium alginate and 100 mM CaCl]. The encapsulated protocorms, which were desiccated in a laminar airflow cabinet for 6 h, were able to withstand cryostorage in liquid nitrogen. Maximum regeneration into complete plantlets (72% for C eburneum and 70% for C. hookerianum) of the cryostored, encapsulated protocorms was obtained using MS medium containing 3% sucrose and 0.8% agar. Using this protocol of cryopreservation, long-term preservation for ex situ conservation of these two threatened orchids can be accomplished.
42568789|The utility of transgenic plants for both experimental and practical agronomic purposes is highly dependent on stable, predictable, and heritable expression of the introduced genes. This requirement is frequently unfulfilled, and transgenes often are completely silenced. Studies of transgenic loci have shown that rearrangements of transgenes occur during the integration process, some of which are potent cues that induce silencing. Conversely, intact, single-copy transgenes produced via transposonmediated gene delivery have shown relatively stable expression, at least in early-generation progeny. To examine the long-term expression stability of a bar expression cassette delivered via Dissociation (Ds)-mediated transposition, we examined qualitative and quantitative expression in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) populations developed for transposon tagging. Qualitative assessments of herbicide resistance among 106 lines showed bar expression to be stable for at least five generations of advance via self-pollination. Similarly, qualitatively stable expression was observed among 31 near-isogenic lines derived from at least seven backcrosses to the cultivar Garnet. Quantitative RT-PCR measurements of bar expression were conducted for eight near-isogenic lines and their donor parents. The expression of bar was highly correlated in parent and progeny near-isogenic lines, showing high heritability of bar expression. These data demonstrate stable, predictable transgene expression following Ds-mediated delivery.
20461598|Three barley tissue-specific promoters (Dhn12, Itr1, and Ltp1) were transcriptionally fused to the C1 and/or the B-peru genes involved in anthocyanin biosynthesis. Transient expression of these constructs was examined in different wheat tissues. Constructs with tissue-specific promoters were only active in embryos. A green fluorescent protein (GFP) driven by the actin promoter was used as an internal standard to monitor the effectiveness of each bombardment. Further, normalization of the transient expression assay using the GFP reference significantly reduced the variability between separate bombardments, and the intensity of anthocyanin pigmentation quantified by image analysis allowed for a rapid and accurate evaluation of different promoters. Compared to CaMV35S promoter, tissue-specific promoters were more effective in directing anthocyanin production, specifically in wheat embryos, and the C1 gene was more effective than B-peru. Among the tissue-specific promoters, the Ltp1 was superior to Itr1 and Dhn12 in combination with C1 and/or B-peru gene(s). Analysis of nucleotide sequences of all three tissue-specific promoters revealed the presence of G-Box, E-Box, and RY elements, which might trigger embryo-specific expression in wheat.
23255671|Somatic embryogenesis was obtained from callus of wild arum (Arum palaestinum). Callus was induced from sterilized corm bud sprouts cultured on basal medium containing 4.4 M 6-benzyladenine and 5.4 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid. Callus was maintained under dark conditions using basal medium with 4.4 or 8.8 M 6-benzyladenine and 5.4 or 10.8 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid. The highest callus weight and most desirable callus phenotype were achieved using basal medium containing 8.8 M 6-benzyladenine and 5.4 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid. Friable calli were cultured in the dark on basal medium containing 4.5 M 2, 4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 0.46 M 6-furfurylaminopurine, 5.4 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid, and 1.7 mM proline to induce embryogenesis before transfer to regeneration medium. Embryos that developed on regeneration medium were transferred to medium minus plant growth regulators for germination. Ninety percent of the germinating embryos developed into rooted plantlets. Rooted plants were grown in the greenhouse and acclimatized successfully with a 95 % survival rate. This is the first report of successful somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration in A. palaestinum.
29736157|We report a protocol for efficient plant regeneration of four tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.) cultivars ('Surpro', 'Coronado', 'Summer Lawn,' and 'Fawn') via somatic embryogenesis. Calli were initiated from mature seeds grown on modified Murashige and Skoog (MMS) medium supplemented with 7.0 mg l (31. 7 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 0.05 mg l (0.23 M) kinetin (Kin). Calli were maintained and proliferated by subculture at monthly intervals on MMS medium containing 4.5 mg l (20.4M) 2,4-D and 0.2 mg l (0.9 M) Kin. Somatic embryos (SE) were induced from seed-derived calli on SE-induction medium (MMS supplemented with 2.0 mg l 2,4-D and 0.2 mg l kin). Plantlets were regenerated from somatic embryogenic calli grown on modified SH medium supplemented with 2 mg l Kin. Using this optimized protocol, 78.6-82.3% of mature seeds of all four cultivars produced SE clusters, of which 93.5-95.3% regenerated into plants within 10 wk. The regenerants showed no phenotypic abnormalities.
23255674|One of the alternatives to autoclaving culture media is chemical sterilization, which may cause fewer changes to the chemical composition of the media. In this study, the effect of chemical sterilization by inclusion of chlorine dioxide (ClO 2 ) in the culture medium on the in vitro development of gerbera (Gerbera jamesonii) cv. AL101, cultured at different stages of micropropagation, was evaluated. The following five concentrations of ClO 2 were tested: 0%, 0.0025%, 0.0050%, 0.0075%, and 0.010%. Autoclaved medium was used as the control. ClO 2 in the culture medium reduced contamination at rates comparable to autoclaving when tested at three stages of the culture process: in vitro establishment, multiplication, and rooting. Plantlets grown in culture media sterilized with ClO 2 showed similar or better development than those grown in autoclaved culture medium. Use of 0.0025% ClO 2 to sterilize the culture medium resulted in better plantlet development than autoclaved medium, regardless of the stage of micropropagation.
4293450|An efficient, rapid and large-scale propagation of the woody, aromatic and medicinal shrub, Holarrhena antidysenterica, through in vitro culture of nodal segments with axillary buds, is described.
4293624|Somatic hybrid plants were regenerated via electrofusion between leaf-derived protoplasts of 'Chicken heart' sweet wampee (Clausena lansium) and embryogenic protoplasts of 'Newhall' navel orange (Citrus sinensis Osbeck). Most of the complete plantlets were formed via mini-grafting. Flow cytometry showed that most of the regenerants were tetraploids as expected, but unexpectedly three plantlets were triploids. Simple sequence repeat (SSR) analysis of seven randomly selected tetraploids and the three triploids showed that they had specific fragments from both fusion parents, thereby confirming their hybridity. Analysis of cytoplasmic genomes using universal primers revealed that their chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) band pattern was identical to the mesophyll parent, while their mitochondrial genomes were of the navel orange type. According to the SSR results, the triploids obtained in this study were most likely due to chromosome elimination of 'Chicken heart' sweet wampee prior to plant regeneration.
4293440|Somatic embryos of banana cv. Rasthali (AAB genomic group) were encapsulated in 5% sodium alginate to produce synthetic seeds. The frequency of germination of encapsulated embryos varied considerably on different gel matrices and substrates used for plant development. Maximum conversion frequency of 66% was noted from encapsulated embryos cultured on MS medium. Plantlets developed from synthetic seeds were successfully transferred to soil.
4293756|A new protocol has been developed for the highly efficient somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration of 10 recalcitrant Chinese cotton cultivars. Calluses and embryogenic calluses were induced on MSB1 medium containing the optimal combination of indolebutyric acid (IBA;
20064901|Transgenic carrot (Daucus carota L.) plants were obtained following transformation with disarmed Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains MOG 101 (octopine type) and EHA 105 (leucinopine type). The strains harbored a binary plasmid that contained either an acidic chitinase gene from petunia (pMOG196), or a basic chitinase gene from tobacco (pMOG198) or bean (pGA492-CHN), transcriptionally fused to the constitutive 35S promoter from cauliflower mosaic virus. Each construct also contained the neomycin phosphotransferase gene (npt II) conferring kanamycin resistance. The influence of the Agrobacterium strains, plasmids, carrot cultivars, ages of explant, and cocultivation times were evaluated. The frequency of transformation (i.e., development of somatic embryos on Murashige and Skoog medium with 4.5 M 2,4-D and 100 mg/liter of kanamycin) was highest (12.1%) with 2-5-wk-old epicotyl segments of the cultivar Nanco cocultivated for 2-3 d with the supervirulent A. tumefaciens strain EHA 105. Transformation efficiency was not influenced by explant age or binary plasmid, but was significantly influenced by cocultivation period, Agrobacterium strain, and carrot cultivar. Transformed embryogenic calluses from five independent transformation events (out of about 15) were multiplied in suspension cultures (liquid MS medium with 0.5 M 2,4-D and 50 mg/liter of kanamycin). Within 4-6 wk following plating of cell suspensions onto MS medium without growth regulators or kanamycin, plantlets developed. Excised shoots were rooted on MS medium with kanamycin (50 mg/liter) before transferring to soil. Transformation was confirmed in the five independent lines by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-amplification of the npt II coding region and Southern hybridization analysis using an 800 bp Digoxigenin-UTP labeled probe specific for the npt II gene. One to four hybridizing bands were seen in the transgenic plants, indicating the integration of one to four T-DNA copies in the carrot genome. Transgenic plants of cultivars Golden State, Danvers Half Long, and Nanco, which contained either the acidic or basic chitinase genes were obtained. Expression of the introduced basic chitinase genes was confirmed by protein dot-blot analysis and immunostaining with anti-bean and anti-tobacco antibodies.
4293457|Embryogenic tissues of sugi (Cryptomeria japonica) were induced on a modified Campbell and Durzan (CD) medium containing
4293615| Biotechnology has become an important tool to produce plant secondary metabolites and proteases are among them. Although pineapple plants have been found to produce proteases, most of the biotechnological investigations on this crop have been focused on propagation. The procedure involving the use of temporary immersion bioreactors is one of the most outstanding because of its high multiplication rate. We previously recorded specific protease activity in the culture medium during the pre-elongation step of this protocol. Therefore we decided to modify this phase, looking for an increase of protease excretion. Three independent experiments were performed to evaluate the effects of culture duration, and levels of gibberellic acid (GA) and 6-benzyladenine (BA). The following indicators were recorded: shoot fresh mass per bioreactor; and protein concentration, proteolytic activity, and specific protease activity in culture media. As happens in investigations focused on protease production, the specific protease activity was the most important indicator recorded here. It maximized at 21 d of culture. Moreover, GA (4.2 M) increased specific activity in the culture medium while BA produced a negative effect. Results shown here demonstrate that conditions adequate for propagation purposes (15-d pre-elongation phase; 2.8 M GA; 2.2 M BA) are not necessarily adequate for protease excretion. 
20064885|Two protocols for clonal propagation of kurrat (Allium ampeloprasum var. kurrat) using explants from the basal plates of mature plants are described. In direct formation, explants were cultured in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium and supplemented with either benzyladenine at 0.0 or 4.4 M, or supplemented with 7.0 M benzyladenine and 0.1 M naphthaleneacetic acid. Shoots appeared after 4 wk of culture. In the two-step procedure, explants were cultured first on MS medium supplemented with 1.4 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 1.4 M kinetin, and incubated in the dark for 4 wk. They were then transferred to MS medium supplemented with 4.4 M benzyladenine for shoot formation. All shoots were rooted on MS medium containing
41496515|Genetic improvement of the apomictic forage grass species Cenchrus ciliaris L. based on conventional breeding methods is difficult and time-consuming. However, in vitro genetic manipulation of such species would provide a promising approach. A rapid and high-frequency in vitro plant regeneration protocol is essential for successful application of transgenic technology. This study reports on such a rapid, high-frequency and genotype-independent plant regeneration protocol for C. ciliaris L. Using the multiple shoot induction approach, up to 20 shoots per explant could be induced from shoot tips cultured on MS (Murashige and Skoog) medium when supplemented with 3.0 mg L TDZ. Two cultivars (IGFRI-3108 and IGFRI-727) and three exotic germplasm accessions (EC-397670, EC397496, and EC397336) showed equivalent responses to the protocol. Shoot tips from 4-d-old in vitro grown seedlings were used as expiants for multiple shoot induction. Regenerated shoots were cultured on MS medium supplemented with gibberellic acid (2.0 mg L) for shoot elongation. The regenerated shoots were rooted on MS medium supplemented with indole-3-acetic acid (3.0 mg L). When transferred to soil in pots, hardened plants displayed up to 85% survival under field conditions.
4293602|Foliar nutrition has been conceived as a possible means of overcoming the recalcitrance of Prosopis chilensis (Molina) Stuntz explants to standard in vitro culture. The foliar uptake of cations (K from
4293674| The embryogenic potential of different Echinacea purpurea tissues, viz. leaf, cotyledon, and root, was investigated. Maximum embryo-induction was achieved from leaf discs cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with benzylaminopurine (5.0 M) and indolebutyric acid (2.5 M) where 95% of the explants responded, yielding an average of 83 embryos per explant within 4 wk of culture. Incubation of cultures in the dark for an initial period of 14 d significantly increased the frequency of somatic embryogenesis (6-8-fold in leaf explants). Exposure of the abaxial surface of leaves to the medium significantly increased the number of embryos. Transfer of somatic embryos to a medium devoid of growth regulators resulted in 80% germination within 7 d. Over 73% of the somatic embryos developed roots within 28 d of culture on a medium containing naphthaleneacetic acid (10 M) with a maximum root number of 9.8 per plantlet. Transplanting ex vitro and acclimatization for a period of 7 d were sufficient to promote establishment of plants in the greenhouse, and more than 90% of the regenerated plants survived. 
20064963|The gaseous phytohormone ethylene regulates many aspects of plant morphogenesis. Growth and development of cells cultured in vitro are largely dependent on the presence of phytohormones, including ethylene in the culture environment. Hence, modification of phytohormone composition and interaction in the nutrient medium has been the primary strategy to manipulate morphogenesis in vitro. Such studies have shown the importance of ethylene, as well as the inhibition of its synthesis or action, in growth and organized development in vitro, including xylogenesis, organogenesis, somatic embryogenesis, and androgenesis. More recently, mutants and transgenic plants have been used to elucidate the role of ethylene in various cellular and developmental processes. In this review, we concentrate on the more recent advances in the study of ethylene in plant morphogenesis in vitro. We also include information about the various chemical modulators of ethylene biosynthesis and action employed in plant tissue culture.
20064894|Several factors that may affect induction of somatic embryogenesis in loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.) were investigated in 1994 and 1995. Megagametophytes containing immature zygotic embryos were excised from seeds as explants. Potassium chloride, silver nitrate, myo-inositol, coconut water, or polyamine was added to the control media (U.S. patent no. 5,036,007) to determine the effects of each single ingredient or their combinations on the initiation of embryogenic tissue. Supplements of myo-inositol at 22.2 mM resulted in increases in frequencies of cell mass extrusion and proliferation compared with the control media in consecutive years. Addition of silver nitrate showed the potential to promote initiation of embryogenic culture. The combination of 10 mM potassium with 29.4 M silver nitrate achieved the highest frequencies in both extrusion and proliferation of embryogenic tissue. The combination of silver nitrate at 29.4 M with addition of myo-inositol at 11.1 or 22.2 mM achieved a higher conversion rate from extrusion to proliferation. Polyamine did not significantly affect the induction of somatic embryogenesis, but coconut water was inhibitory.
42568438|This is the first report of induction of haploid callus with significant antioxidant activity from unpollinated ovary cultures of tea. Out of the five cultivars tested, TV 18 gave the highest percentage of callus induction. Within 1 wk of induction, ovules swelled to almost double their original size, and white, friable callus emerged. A high cytokinin/auxin ratio, provided by 8.5 M benzyl adenine and 4.5 M 2,4-dichlorophenxyacetic acid, and high-temperature treatment (33C) for 10 d in the dark promoted maximum callus induction. Callus was maintained on MS medium containing 22.2 M benzyl adenine and 9.8 M indolebutyric acid (callus line RM 1) in the light at 25C. Well-developed tracheids were formed within 4 wk in callus subcultured on MS medium containing 1.8 M thidiazuron and 5.0 M 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid (line RM 2). Flow cytometric analysis revealed that most cells were haploid. Both RM 1 and RM 2 produced phenolic compounds with significant antioxidant capacity. Phenolic content showed a positive linear correlation with antioxidant activity. The total phenolic content of RM 1 was 3.470.21 gallic acid equivalents (GAE) mg/g dry weight and that of RM 2 was 2.390.12 GAE mg/g dry weight. Antioxidant activity was measured using IC, a measure of inhibitory concentration; a lower IC value reflects greater antioxidant activity.The IC value of RM 1 was 2,530 g/ml and that of RM 2 was 3,170 g/ml. The results suggested that the phenolic compounds contributed significantly to the antioxidant capacity of the in vitro cell lines.
4293279| Somatic embryogenesis of Calamus manan, a single-stemmed rattan species, in tissue culture was scientifically demonstrated for the first time. Root tips of in vitro plantlets produced friable callus when the explants were cultivated for several mo. on a Murashige and Skoog induction medium containing 7.5 mg Picloram per l (31.1 M). Histological analyses established the presence of proembryos within the callus which differentiated subsequently into somatic embryos using the same culture medium. Histological examination revealed that these somatic embryos completely lacked starch and protein reserves, which did not prevent them, however, from germinating, and showing bipolar development. These somatic embryos further developed into young plants, similarly to zygotic embryos. 
4293759| Cryopreservation of African violet via encapsulation-dehydration, vitrification, and encapsulation-vitrification of shoot tips was evaluated. Encapsulation-dehydration, pretreatment of shoot tips with 0.3 M sucrose for 2d followed by air dehydration for 2 and 4 h resulted in complete survival and 75% regrowth, respectively. Dehydration of encapsulated shoot tips with silica gel for 1 h resulted in 80% survival but only 30% regrowth. Higher viability of shoot tips was obtained when using a step-wise dehydration of the material rather than direct exposure to 100% plant vitrification solution (PVS2). Complete survival and 90% regrowth were achieved with a four-step dehydration with PVS2 at 25C for 20 min prior to freezing. The use of 2M glycerol plus 0.4 M sucrose or 10% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) plus 0.5 M sucrose as a cryoprotectant resulted in 55% survival of shoots. The greatest survival (80-100%) and regrowth (80%) was obtained when shoot tips were cryoprotected with 10% DMSO plus 0.5 M sucrose or 5% DMSO plus 0.75 M sucrose followed by dehydration with 100% PVS2. Shoot tips cryoprotected with 2 M glycerol plus 0.4 M sucrose for 20 min exhibited complete survival (100%) and the highest regrowth (55%). In encapsulation-vitrification, dehydration of encapsulated and cryoprotected shoot tips with 100% PVS2 at 25C for 5 min resulted in 85% survival and 80% regrowth. 
20461689|Vanilla planifolia is a tropical orchid mainly known for the aromatic flavor of its cured pods. Callus cultures were initiated from leaf and nodal explants of V. planifolia. Leaf explants showed better callus initiation than the nodal explants with callus biomass production maximal when cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium containing 4.52 mM 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid and 2.22 mM benzyladenine (BAP). Callus transferred to MS basal medium supplemented with 13.32 M BAP, and 13.43 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) showed superior growth response and produced 14.01.0 shoots with an average length of 3.60.1 cm after 40 d. Subsequent transfer of the proliferated shootlets to MS basal medium supplemented with 8.88 M BAP and 8.08 M NAA produced 12.30.14 plantlets with an average height of 3.6 cm0.10 cm. All plantlets produced profuse rooting within 35-40 d after transfer to half-strength MS basal medium supplemented with NAA in combination with indole-3-acetic acid. Rooted plantlets were transferred for hardening, with 80% of the plantlets becoming successfully established in the field. Potentially, more than 100,000 plantlets could be produced within eight subcultures from callus obtained from leaf explant through the methods described here.
4293568|Protocorm-like bodies (plbs) of the orchid Dendrobium 'Sonia' were obtained from fractionated plb explants on Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium (MS) supplemented with
4293734|Embryogenic soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill] cultures were transformed with a Manduca sexta chitinase (msc) gene using microprojectile bombardment. A 1.7 kb DNA fragment encoding a tobacco hornworm chitinase was cloned into the rice transformation vector pGL2, under the control of the maize ubiquitin promoter and linked to the hpt gene as a selectable marker. After bombardment, hygromycin-resistant tissues were isolated and cultured to give rise to clones of transgenic material. Four hygromycin-resistant clones were converted into plants. Two clones were positive for the msc gene via polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and Southern blot analysis. The integration, inheritance, and expression of transgenes were confirmed by molecular analysis of transgenic soybean plants. Progeny analysis showed that the introduced genes were inherited and segregated in a 3:1 Mendelian fashion. DNA blot experiments and progeny inheritance analysis indicated that the plants contained several copies of the msc gene and that the insertion occurred at a single locus. Northern blotting analysis confirmed the expression of the transgenes. Western blot analysis of transgenic plants and their progeny revealed the presence of a protein with a molecular weight of 48kDa that reacted with the Manduca sexta antibody. Progeny from the chitinase-positive plants were tested for their resistance to the soybean cyst nematode. Plants expressing the insect chitinase did not manifest enhanced resistance to the soybean cyst nematode.
20064896|Adventitious shoots were induced on transversally divided expanding leaves from Fagus sylvatica shoot cultures of juvenile origin. Adventitious shoot buds formed mainly on callus that developed on the petiole stump or on the cut across the midrib of distal leaf halves. However, sometimes they arose directly from leaf tissue. An anatomical study confirmed both the direct and indirect origin of the adventitious buds. The best results were obtained by culturing proximal leaf sections on woody plant medium supplemented with 2.9 M indole-3 acetic acid in combination with 8.9 M benzyladenine or 2.3 M thidiazuron (TDZ). Proximal explants were more responsive than distal explants in terms of both callus formation and bud regeneration, regardless of the induction medium or clone tested. Bud formation capacity was influenced by the genotype of the stock shoot culture and was enhanced by an initial 10 d darkness, but was inhibited by longer periods of darkness. Caulogenic competence was significantly affected by the duration of exposure to TDZ; in particular, adventitious shoot length was depressed by increasing the exposure period. Three weeks culture with TDZ was the most efficient treatment for shoot production and elongation. Further shoot development was promoted by subculturing the explants to the same medium used for the maintenance of the stock shoot cultures. Shoots so obtained were multiplied and rooted producing plantlets of adventitious origin.
4292997|Embryogenic callus was formed from several cultivars of cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) when sections of hypocotyl and cotyledon were cultured on medium supplemented with 5 mg/liter
20064819|Encapsulated somatic embryos (artificial seeds) and naked (uncoated) somatic embryos of alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) were planted directly into the field to demonstrate the feasibility of using artificial seeds for direct sowing. Various row coverings that provided protection for the somatic embryos during conversion (plant formation) in the field and encapsulation methods were investigated. The highest conversion obtained in the field was 25% when naked somatic embryos were planted under the protective covering of inverted styrofoam cups. In comparison, 60% conversion was obtained when embryos were planted in potting mix in a growth chamber. Somatic embryos encapsulated by the thin-coat method converted at 23% under cups in the field and 40% in potting mix in the growth chamber. Naked somatic embryos had an average of 13 and 9% conversion in the field under plastic and cloth coverings, respectively, whereas encapsulated embryos converted at 5 and 14%, respectively. Direct-planted embryos (no row covering) converted at 1% in the field. Successful conversion of coated and naked somatic embryos planted in the field supports the concept of artificial seeds serving as a substitute for natural seeds.
20064818|Tropane alkaloid production was studied in different root cultures of Datura stramonium. Cultured roots were obtained with
4293107| Pinus pinaster plants were regenerated from cotyledons excised from in vitro germinated seeds and axenically cultured on induction medium (GMD). 6-Benzyladenine (2.2 M) induced the highest frequency of direct bud formation from cotyledons. An average of 13.1 2.1 elongated shoots per cotyledon was obtained. Germination time influenced shoot induction, and the organogenic potential decreased with explant age. Cotyledons remained for 21 d on induction medium, and in order to promote adventitious shoot elongation, they were transferred to Gupta and Durzan's DCR medium without growth regulators, containing 0.5% (wt/vol) activated charcoal and 3% (wt/vol) sucrose. Rooting was achieved by application of an indole-3-butyric acid, (396.6 M) pulse (24 h at 4 C), followed by transfer to a sterile mixture of peat plus perlite (1:1 vol/vol). Ninety-eight to 100% of the regenerated plants were successfully acclimatized. All plants have survived after transfer to the field. 
23255673|Anthriscus sylvestris (L.) Hoffm. (Apiaceae) is a common wild plant that accumulates the lignan deoxypodophyllotoxin. Deoxypodophyllotoxin can be hydroxylated at the C-7 position in recombinant organisms yielding podophyllotoxin, which is used as a semi-synthetic precursor for the anticancer drugs, etoposide phosphate and teniposide. As in vitro regeneration of A. sylvestris has not yet been reported, development of a regeneration protocol for A. sylvestris would be useful as a micropropagation tool and for metabolic engineering of the plant. Calli were induced from hypocotyl explants and transferred to shoot induction medium containing zeatin riboside. Regenerated shoots were obtained within 6 mo and were transferred onto growth regulator-free root induction medium containing 1% sucrose. Regenerated plants transferred to soil and acclimatized in a greenhouse. Plants were transferred to the field with a 100% survival rate. Regenerated plants flowered and were fully fertile. This is the first report of complete regeneration of A. sylvestris via shoot organogenesis from callus.
20540987|High-frequency plant regeneration of C. roseus cv. 'little bright eye' via somatic embryogenesis and organogenesis from five out of six explants was standardized. Two factors were found to be important for regeneration: (1) the type of explants, and (2) the combination and concentrations of plant growth regulators. The highest regeneration percentage through somatic embryogenesis was obtained from mature zygotic embryo in MS medium supplemented with 7.5 M of thidiazuron (TDZ). The mature embryo also regenerated efficiently via organogenesis in MS medium supplemented with either 2.5 M TDZ or 5.3 M -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) and 2.2 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA). Hypocotyl and cotyledon did not induce somatic embryogenesis and organogenesis in TDZ-containing medium but gave a maximum percentage of shoots in MS medium supplemented with 5.3 M NAA and 2.2 M BA. Stem nodes and meristem tips showed better regeneration via organogenesis in the medium supplemented with NAA and BA and in lower concentrations of TDZ.
23254893|An efficient method for the generation of adventitious shoots from the cotyledons of Japanese pear and related species was developed. Cotyledons from seeds of the Japanese pear "Okusankichi" and the Asian pea pear "Hokushimamenashi" were used to determine the optimum concentrations of phytohormones in the medium. The rates of generation of adventitious shoots and the numbers of adventitious shoots per explant were highest when the media contained 5 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid combined with 10 or 25 M 6-benzylaminopurine. These growth regulators were used to generate adventitious shoots from the cotyledons of 33 cultivars of Japanese, Chinese, Asian pea, and European pears. A high number of adventitious shoots per explant (1.32.3) and high rates of regeneration of adventitious shoots (6076 %) were obtained from the cotyledons of Japanese pears "Imamuraaki" and "Agenosho Shinanashi." Although pollination was not controlled, cotyledons from mother trees of old Japanese cultivars and Chinese pears tended to be more regenerable than those from other pear species. Since the rooting ability of the adventitious shoots was very low, micro-grafting was applied to obtain regenerated potted plants from adventitious shoots. Grafted regenerated plants were recovered at a rate of more than 60 %, regardless of cultivar. To our knowledge, this is the first report to evaluate shoot regeneration from cotyledons of major Pyrus species.
4292977|Nuclear hybrids have been obtained by fusion of mesophyll protoplasts of Nicotiana plumbaginifolia and x-irradiated or iodoacetate-treated mesophyll protoplasts of a kanamycin-resistant line of N. tabacum. The effect of irradiation on the recovery of asymmetric hybrids was evaluated by analysis of their morphology, fertility, chromosome number, isozyme patterns, restriction patterns in their organelle DNAs, and presence of the kanamycin-resistance gene. The results presented in this paper show that x-ray irradiation leads to a significant reduction in the amount of N. tabacum genome present in the hybrids and demonstrates, once more, the power of this technique to induce directional loss of genomic traits of the irradiated parent.
4292970|We used cultured pea embryo axes to study the effect of exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) on the reactivation of cell proliferation at germination. ABA (
4293433| Phosphomannose isomerase (PMI) catalyzes the reversible interconversion of mannose 6-phosphate and fructose 6-phosphate. Plant cells lacking this enzyme are incapable of surviving on synthetic medium containing mannose as a carbon source. Maize, wheat and barley plants, genetically modified to express the Escherichia coli manA gene (pmi) under the control of a plant promoter, were able to survive selection on mannose-containing medium. Transformation frequencies averaged 45% for maize transformation via Biolistics, 35% for maize Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, 20% for wheat, 3% for barley, and 2% for watermelon transformation. Moreover, the frequencies exceeded those obtained for maize and wheat using the pat or bar gene with Basta selection. A preliminary safety assessment has been conducted for PMI. Purified PMI protein demonstrates no adverse effects in an acute mouse toxicity test. Purified PMI protein was readily digested in simulated mammalian gastric and intestinal fluids. Plants derived from sugar beet and corn cells that had been genetically modified to express the E. coli manA gene were evaluated for biochemical changes in mannose-associated pathways. No detectable changes in glycoprotein profiles were detected in PMI-transformed plants as compared to non-transgenic controls. The yield and nutritional composition of grain from PMI-transformed corn plants compared to their non-transformed isogenic counterparts were also determined and no statistically significant differences were found. The inherent safety of a system based on simple sugar metabolism coupled with high transformation frequencies for monocots make pmi an ideal selectable marker for plant transformation. 
4293601|Viability changes and hydrogen peroxide production in cultured Lycopersicon esculentum cv. Rio Grande (tomato) cells exposed to induced stress conditions have been investigated. Our data suggest that in order to obtain reliable and insightful data when the hypersensitive response is being evaluated as an early elicitor-induced viability change in suspension cultures, it is strongly advisable to use the assay based on the reduction of tetrazolium salts, since it provides an adequate indicator of changes in metabolic activity that could otherwise be overlooked.
41496435|We have cloned a WD-repeat gene from peach. The cloned gene is more than 3 kb and contains signature domains characteristic of WD-repeat genes. Because of its high homology with AtTTG1, we hypothesized that this gene could be a TTG1 ortholog in peach. Functional studies were carried out by complementing the trichome minus Arabidopsis ttg1-1 mutant with the putative peach TTG1 homolog. Successful restoration of normal trichomes was achieved in the resulting transgenics. We further tested the possibility that this gene was the candidate gene differentiating peach and nectarine. Sequence analysis indicated no difference in the full-length TTG1 and 1,600 bp of its promoter between peach and nectarine.
20064914|This study was conducted to establish and optimize a regeneration system for adapted U.S. rice genotypes including three commercial rice cultivars (LaGrue, Katy, and Alan) and two Arkansas breeding lines. Factors evaluated in the study were genotype, sugar type, and phytohormone concentration. The system consisted of two phases, callus induction and plant regeneration. In the callus induction phase, mature caryopses were cultured on MS medium containing either 1% sucrose combined with 3% sorbitol or 4% sucrose alone, and 0.5 to
4293339|Callus cultures were established from pith tissue of Coryphantha elephantidens (Lem.) Lem. on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with
4293389|A binary vector, pPTN133, was assembled that harbored two separate T-DNAs. T-DNA one contained a bar cassette, while T-DNA two carried a GUS cassette. The plasmid was mobilized into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA101. Mature soybean cotyledonary node explants were inoculated and regenerated on medium amended with glufosinate. Transgenic soybeans were grown to maturity in the greenhouse. Fifteen primary transformants (T
4293092|Vella lucentina M. B. Crespo is a threatened Spanish species that is endemic to a small area in eastern Alicante Province (SE Spain). Micropropagation techniques were applied for ex situ conservation of this plant. Aseptic epicotyls bearing the apical bud were grown in Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 6-furfurylaminopurine (Kin),
4293005|Rapidly dividing cell suspension cultures derived from Datura innoxia (Mill.) selectively remove certain toxic metal ions from nutrient and waste solutions. Many ions, including necessary micronutrients, bind tightly to different components of the primary cell wall. Cell viability is not required for metal chelation to the extracellular matrix, and biopolymers purified from these cultures can be used to selectively remove metal ions from waste streams. Binding of normally toxic metals to the primary cell wall significantly reduces their toxicity. Chemical and metal luminescence methods that generate information about metal binding and cell-wall components responsible for this are presented. The feasibility of using plant cells and their components for bioremediation is discussed.
4293095|The uptake of nitrate and ammonium by callus of Platycerium coronarium from the culture medium was examined. Nitrate reductase activity of photoautotrophic callus cultures under CO
4293374|The in vitro plant regeneration potential of vegetatively propagated geraniums (Pelargonium x hortorum) has been investigated. Using various combinations of growth regulators and a choice of different explants, a regeneration protocol has been developed to raise in vitro plantlets from young petiole and leaf explants from three different cultivars of geraniums. In all three cultivars, very young petiole explants exhibited a higher regeneration potential as compared with leaf explants. Regeneration efficiencies were found to be highly dependent on the cultivar, with cv. Samba showing the highest regeneration potential, followed by cvs. Yours Truly and then Sincerity. Samba also showed the highest number of shoots from both the petiole [57 shoot buds per petiole explant in the presence of
29736211|A novel Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated transformation method using a primary-node explant from Dairyland cultivar 93061 was developed for soybean using the disarmed Agrobacterium strain SHA17. Transformed plants regenerated from explants inoculated with SHA17 were fertile and phenotypically normal. In a comparative experiment, regeneration frequencies were not significantly different between explants inoculated with A. rhizogenes strain SHA17 and Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain AGL1; however, a 3.5-fold increase in transformation efficiency [(number of Southern or TaqMan-positive independent events/ total number of explants inoculated)100] was found for explants cocultured with SHA17 compared to AGL1 (6.6 and 1.64%, respectively). Southern analysis of 48 T plants suggested that 37.5, 23, and 39.6% of the T plants contained 1, 2, and 3 or more T-DNA fragments integrated into the genome, respectively. Additionally, T progeny analysis of 8 independent events resulted in typical Mendelian inheritance of T-DNA genes. Of seven T plants that had two or more T-DNA fragments, six contained multiple loci segregating in T progenies. Further analysis of four lines confirmed the presence of PAT, GUS, and/or DsRED2 proteins in transgenic plants that were encoded on the T-DNA into the T generation.
23016697|Uraria picta is extensively used in the Asian traditional systems of medicine. Overexploitation of the species for preparation of the drug Dashmula has led to the plant becoming rare and endemic. In the present investigation, an efficient micropropagation protocol has developed from leaf-derived callus of U. picta. Among the various concentrations of cytokinins (6-benzyladenineBA; kinetinKin; and thidiazuronTDZ) used, a significantly higher number of shoots per culture (58.80.8) was observed on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium fortified with 4.44 M BA. The shoot regeneration frequency was sustained upon transfer to the same fresh medium at 4-wk intervals over a period of 2 yr. The medium containing various concentrations of auxins (-napthalene acetic acid (NAA) or indole-3-acetic acid (IAA)) showed callus interspersed root formation; however, MS basal medium containing 3% sucrose revealed direct root induction from in vitro raised shoots. The acclimatized in vitro grown plants showed almost 98% survival upon transfer to soil in earthen pots and grown ex vitro. Randomly amplified polymorphic DNA analysis of 25 arbitrarily selected regenerants and mother plants revealed 100% uniformity and true-to-type nature of the regenerants. Methanolic extracts of callus showed strong antibacterial activity against pathogenic bacteria as compared to leaf and root extracts of in vitro raised plants and wild plants, suggesting the presence of higher concentrations of active chemical constituents (isoflavanoids) in callus cultures of U. picta.
4293164| A protocol was developed for micropropagation of Heracleum candicans Wall. by axillary shoot proliferation. Maximum shoot proliferation was obtained on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 0.5 mg (2.2 M) 6-benzyladenine per l and 0.1 mg (0.4 M) 1-naphthaleneacetic acid per l. Regenerated shoots were rooted on MS medium fortified with 1 mg (4.9 M) indole-3-butyric acid per l. Complete plants were transferred to soil and all of these plants were morphologically and cytologically identical to the mother plant. 
4293172|This manuscript is the first of two that discuss statistical methods applicable to in vitro research. This paper focuses on topics to consider when planning experiments and provides examples of several experimental designs that are suitable for plant tissue culture and biotechnology projects. Use of factorial treatment designs and designing sequential experiments are also discussed. The second paper deals with data handling. Several key references are provided at the end of each manuscript as sources of additional information for readers' perusal.
29736183|The objective of this work was to enhance the quality and quality of microspore-derived embryos of cruciferous species by using polyethylene glycol (PEG) to replace sucrose in the culture medium. The main advantage in using PEG is that is produces embryos that are morphologically more similar to zygotic embryos and have enhanced germination capabilities. When microspores were cultured in full strength NLN medium supplemented with 25% (w/v) PEG, the addition of 3 ml of full strength NLN with 13% (w/v) sucrose at 14 d was beneficial for embryo quality and quanity. Experiments showed that this PEG system could be used for a number of Brassica napus cultivars, as well as a number of other cruciferous species. PEG enhanced microspore embryogenesis in B. nigra, Cramble abyssinica, and Raphanus oleifera. Microspore-derived embryos were obtained from all cruciferous species evaluated (B. alboglabra, B. carinata, B. juncea, B. rapa, B. nigra, R. oleifera, Crambe abyssinica, Sinapis alba) using either sucrose or PEG as the osmoticum. Microspore embryogenesis was induced in B. napus in PEG-based cultures without at 32C heat shock (i.e., 4, 15, 18, and 24C). These temperature conditions were non-inductive when sucrose was used as the osmoticum. Spontaneous chromosome doubling occurred in 64-92% of the regenerated plants when PEG was used in the NLN culture medium, whereas in culture medium containing sucrose, the spontaneous doubling rate was 2-18%.
4293713| A protocol has been developed for in vitro plant regeneration from cotyledonary nodes of Pterocarpus marsupium Roxb. Multiple shoots were induced from cotyledonary nodes derived from 20-d-old axenic seedlings grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 2.22-13.32 M benzyladenine (BA) or 2.32-13.93 M kinetin alone or in combination with 0.26 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The highest frequency for shoot regeneration (85%) and maximum number of shoots per explant (9.5) were obtained on the medium supplemented with 4.44 M BA and 0.26 M NAA after 15 wk of culture. A proliferating shoot culture was established by repeatedly subculturing the original cotyledonary nodal explant on fresh medium after each harvest of the newly formed shoots. Nearly 30% of the shoots formed roots after being transferred to half-strength MS medium containing 9.84 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) after 25 d of culture. Fifty percent of shoots were also directly rooted as microcuttings on a peat moss, soil, and compost mixture (1:1:1). About 52% of plantlets were successfully acclimatized and established in pots. 
4293556| Sprouting of a single shoot was obtained from nodal segments of field-grown cotton plants (Gossypium hirsutum L. cv. DCH-32 and NHH-44) when cultured on Murashige and Skoog's (MS) basal medium devoid of plant growth regulators. Pruning of the sprouted shoot followed by re-culturing of the explant on MS basal medium supplemented with 2.22 M benzylaminopurine triggered the dormant 'accessory buds' present in the node to proliferate and differentiate into multiple shoots. The shoots elongated on the same medium and rooted on MS basal medium devoid of growth regulators. Plantlets were hardened under greenhouse conditions and transferred to the field. Flowering and boll formation were observed in these plants at maturity. This technique for successful clonal propagation from mature cotton tissues should permit the rapid multiplication of plants selected based on specific phenotypic or genotypic characteristics. 
20171614| Many lipid molecules provide health benefits beyond their basic nutritional values and are included under the chemical classification of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA). Because of their immunomodulatory and anti-inflammatory properties, conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) and -3 PUFA can also be defined as nutraceuticals. CLA is a mixture of positional (i.e., 9,11; 10,12; or 11,13) and geometric (i.e., cis or trans) isomers of octadecadienoic acid. The CLA mixture has been shown to have anticarcinogenic, antiatherosclerotic, and immunomodulatory properties, but there is little or no evidence as to which of the individual isomers is the most important in mediating these health benefits. The mechanism by which dietary CLA influences immune function could involve regulation of lipid mediator synthesis, and/or transcriptional regulation of gene expression by peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-. However, these explanations have not been completely accepted in terms of defining the mechanism(s) regulating functional activity because of the lack of molecular evidence in vivo. Other PUFA within the category of nutrients that modulate health (e.g., -linolenic or eicosapentanoic acid) are immunosuppressive. Conversely, dietary CLA expanded CD8 lymphocytes and thymocytes (i.e., CD8 and double negative) in vivo, and enhanced proliferation of CD8 lymphocytes ex vivo. In addition, CLA decreased the tissue damage caused by bacterial-induced colitis. All these properties make dietary CLA a substance that provides medical or health benefits, including the prevention or treatment of diseases (e.g., nutraceutical). 
25623025|St. Augustinegrass is one of the most important warm season turfgrasses in the southern United States because of its shade tolerance. Most cultivars are diploids (2n=2x=18) and are susceptible to various diseases and insects. Polyploid cultivars in the species have some resistance to pests, but most lack cold tolerance. In this study, eight polyploid genotypes were crossed with six diploid cultivars to transfer pest resistance to the diploids. Because interploid crosses often result in aborted seed, it was necessary to use in vitro techniques. Using embryo rescue, 268 plants were recovered from 2,463 emasculated and pollinated florets (10.88% crossability). Because of the heterogeneous nature of the species, these purported hybrids could not be verified by phenotype. DNA markers were used for hybrid identification. A subset of 25 plants from crosses between the aneuploid cultivar Floratam (2n=4x=32) and five diploid cultivars were analyzed using 144 expressed sequence tagssimple sequence repeats (EST-SSRs) developed from buffelgrass cDNA sequence data. Chi-square tests for paternal-specific markers revealed that all analyzed progeny were true F hybrids and none originated from self-fertilization or unintended outcrossing. In addition to identifying DNA polymorphism, the EST-SSRs revealed that genetic variation exists among all analyzed cultivars and is not partitioned between ploidy levels. The findings demonstrate that these embryo rescue techniques will enable the entire spectrum of St. Augustinegrass genetic variation to be better used through the recovery of interploid hybrids.
4293380|Callus of Phalaenopsis Nebula was induced from seed-derived protocorms on 1/2 Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium plus
4293876|The chloroplast genetic engineering approach offers a number of unique advantages, including high-level transgene expression, multi-gene engineering in a single transformation event, transgene containment via maternal inheritance, lack of gene silencing, position and pleiotropic effects and undesirable foreign DNA. Thus far, more than 40 transgenes have been stably integrated and expressed via the tobacco chloroplast genome to confer several agronomic traits and produce vaccine antigens, industrially valuable enzymes, biomaterials, and amino acids. Functionality of chloroplast-derived vaccine antigens and therapeutic proteins have been demonstrated by in vitro assays and animal studies. Oral delivery of vaccine antigens has been facilitated by hyperexpression in transgenic chloroplasts (leaves) or non-green plastids (carrots) and the availability of antibiotic-free selectable markers or the ability to excise selectable marker genes. Additionally, the presence of chaperones and enzymes within the chloroplast help to assemble complex multi-subunit proteins and correctly fold proteins containing disulfide bonds, thereby drastically reducing the costs of in vitro processing. Despite such significant progress in chloroplast transformation, this technology has not been extended to major crops. This obstacle emphasizes the need for plastid genome sequencing to increase the efficiency of transformation and conduct basic research in plastid biogenesis and function. However, highly efficient soybean, carrot, and cotton plastid transformation has been recently accomplished via somatic embryogenesis using species-specific chloroplast vectors. Recent advancements facilitate our understanding of plastid biochemistry and molecular biology. This review focuses on exciting recent developments in this field and offers directions for further research and development.
42568434|Panax quinquefolium, American ginseng, is valued for its triterpene saponins, known as ginsenosides. These constituents possess a number of pharmacological properties and hairy root cultures can synthesize similar saponins to those of field-cultivated roots. The antibacterial activity of extracts from three hairy root clones of P. quinquefolium L. was tested against a range of standard bacterial and yeast strains. The agar diffusion method was used to evaluate inhibition of microbial growth at various extract concentrations. Commercial antibiotics were used as positive reference standards to determine the sensitivity of the strains. Susceptibility testing to antibiotics was also tested using the disk diffusion method. The minimal inhibitory concentration values of the extracts, obtained by agar diffusion, ranged from 0.8 to 1.4 mg/ml. The results showed that extracts from hairy root cultures inhibited the growth of bacteria and yeast strains and suggest that they may be useful in the treatment of infections caused by pathogenic microorganisms.
20064974|Abscisic acid (ABA) is involved in various physiological processes in plant growth and in the development of embryos and the maturation of seed. There is still much to learn about the influence of ABA on regulation of gene expression during plant and seed development. Perhaps not surprisingly, ABA has a major role in the stimulation of somatic embryo maturation in several conifer species, especially spruces. In spite of this, our knowledge of the effects of exogenous ABA is incomplete, for example the effect of ABA concentration on its uptake and fate has rarely been investigated during somatic embryo culture, and our knowledge of molecular events in conifer somatic embryo development is very scant. The intent of this review is to summarize some of the recent research in spruce somatic embryo development related to the use of ABA and to the consequence of its use.
20064931|To improve selection of transgenic Coffea spp. tissue after transformation treatments, the effects of the selective agents chlorsulfuron, glufosinate, glyphosate, hygromycin, and kanamycin were studied on callus development from leaf explants (from greenhouse-grown plants and somaplants) and in embryogenic suspension cultures. Studied genotypes were from C. arabica, C. canephora, and the interspecific hybrids Arabusta and Congusta. A culture system based on "direct" somatic embryogenesis from C. canephora leaf explants proved to be more sensitive to selective agents than high frequency somatic embryogenesis from C. arabica or Arabusta leaf explants. With respect to the selective effect, chlorsulfuron and hygromycin provoked strong inhibition and severe necrosis, whereas glyphosate and kanamycin showed variable inhibition. Glufosinate appeared to efficiently inhibit growth of both leaf callus and callus suspensions of all genotypes tested without inducing necrosis. These properties may make the use of glufosinate advantageous in a selective growth system for detection of transformed coffee tissues.
4293739| An in vitro culture procedure was established for repetitive embryogenesis and plant regeneration from seed-derived protocorms of Phalaenopsis amabilis var. formosa Shimadzu (Orchidaceae). Seed-derived protocorms were cultured on modified half-strength Murashige and Skoog (1962) basal medium (1/2MS) devoid of plant growth regulators. After 45 d, 28.1% of protocorms formed embryos from their posterior regions. 1-Phenyl-3-(1,2,3-thiadiazol-5-yl)-urea (TDZ; 0.45,4.54, and 13.62 M) promoted direct embryo formation. The best response was at 13.62 M TDZ, and 100% of the protocorms formed a mean number of 13.5 embryos after 45 d of culture. By contrast, naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) at 0.54 and 5.37 M inhibited direct embryo formation. On basal medium devoid of plant growth regulators, 18.8% of primary proliferating embryos could form more embryos. TDZ (0.45, 4.54, and 13.62 M) also promoted this process. Proliferating embryos/protocorms were transferred to basal medium devoid of plant growth regulators for plantlet formation. Plantlets were successfully obtained from the embryos after 4-6 wk. Following subculture every 6 wk for three passages, the plantlets were transferred to sphagnum moss in a container for acclimatization in the greenhouse. The survival rate was 100%. 
20064889|A procedure is described to regenerate shoots and plants from the embryonic axis of avocado seedlings with benzyladenine or thidiazuron. Explants were grown in the dark for 10 d and then transferred to an 18-h photoperiod to induce multiple shoots. Increased concentrations of benzyladenine or thidiazuron resulted in increased shoot production. Shoots were transferred to shoot promoting media where additional shoots were formed. Under the best conditions, six rooted shoots were produced per original explant. About 80% of the shoots with roots survived in the glasshouse and produced normal phenotypic plants.
20065027|We report a less genotype-dependent in vitro regeneration system capable of producing multiple shoot clumps and whole plants in four different wheat genotypes. Shoot apical meristems from 7-d-old seedlings produced axillary and adventitious shoots and somatic embryos on media containing N-benzyladenine (BA) and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). All four genotypes responded positively to shoot multiplication depending upon media composition. Scanning electron microscopies of cultures showed a proliferating budding state that gave rise to adventitious shoots and somatic embryos on further multiplication. The percentage of relative shoot apical meristem multiplication was 80-90%, and the average number of shoot meristems per multiplied shoot was 40-50 in all genotypes. Among different concentrations of phytohormones, 2 and
4293062|Aggregates of globular and pre-globular stage somatic embryos from suspension cultures of pecan (Carya illinoensis Koch) were cultured on solidified media for embryo development. Embryo aggregates and pre-globular stage embryo masses were given various treatments to further ontologic development. A 2- to 4-wk mild dehydration of the embryo aggregates suppressed recurrent embryogenesis, promoted development of globular embryos into cotyledonary stage embryos, and enhanced plant development beyond germination. Fine embryogenic tissue masses filtered from suspension formed cotyl-edonary-staged embryos when the collection filters were plated on solidified medium. The embryogenic capacity of pre-globular stage embryo masses was compared between media supplemented with varying concentrations of polyethylene glycol (molecular weight 8 000) vs. filter overlays. The filter paper overlays were not necessary for embryo development. An inverse relationship was found between the number of embryos that developed and the concentration of polyethylene glycol in the medium. However, this relationship was reversed for ability of embryos to germinate and develop into a plant.
4293849| This is the first report of simultaneous organogenesis and somatic embryogenesis in Arnebia euchroma, a highly valued, critically endangered medicinal plant of the Himalaya. Root-derived callus showed only rhizogenesis, whereas leaf-derived callus showed simultaneous organogenesis and somatic embryogenesis. Organogenesis was optimal (12.2 shoots per culture) in 1 M indole-3-butyric acid combined with 2.5 M 6-benzyladenine and induction of somatic embryogenesis (16.3 embryos per culture) occurred in 2.5 M indole-3-butyric acid combined with 2.5 M 6-benzyladenine. Shoots rooted (100%) best in half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2.0 M indole-3-butyric acid. Early cotyledonary-stage embryos encapsulated with 3% sodium alginate and calcium nitrate (100 mM for 25min) showed 60.6% germination in MS medium. Rooted shoots transferred to a mixture of sterile soil, sand, and peat (1:1:1 by volume) showed 72% survival ex vitro. Application of these protocols would be helpful in reducing pressure in natural populations, in genetic transformation studies, and in long-term storage of elite genotypes through synthetic seed production. 
4293699|Stem segments from apical shoot tips of Polygala myrtifolia were used as primary explants to establish in vitro cultures. Axillary shoots produced on non-contaminated explants were excised and recultured in the same medium to increase the stock of shoot cultures. Equal molar concentrations of five cytokinins [2-isopentenyladenine, kinetin, zeatin,
24596344|Ethylene and polyamines (PAs) are two phytohormones that play important roles during in vitro morphogenesis of several plant species. The interaction between ethylene and PAs has been of interest because both have S-adenosylmethionine as a precursor. To study the influence of ethylene and PAs on in vitro morphogenesis of an ornamental pepper, we added an ethylene scavenger, PAs, a PA inhibitor, and compounds that affect ethylene biosynthesis and activity to the regeneration medium. Regeneration frequencies increased in response to treatment with ethylene inhibitors (aminoethoxyvinylglycine and silver thiosulfate) and an ethylene scavenger (mercury perchlorate). Treatment with the ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid reduced the regeneration frequency, increased callus formation, and increased ethylene levels; similar results were obtained in response to treatment with the PA inhibitor methylglyoxal-bis(guanylhydrazone). By contrast, treatment with PAs (particularly spermidine and spermine) decreased ethylene levels, increased the regeneration frequency, and increased shoot bud formation. These results suggest a coordinated regulation of ethylene and polyamines because the suppression of ethylene levels using ethylene inhibitors, polyamines, or mercury perchlorate increased the in vitro regeneration frequency and morphogenic responses of Capsicum annuum L.
4293773| High-frequency somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration were achieved on callus developed from root, stem disc, leaf, and scape explants of Eryngium foetidum L. (Apiaceae). Calluses developed on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium fortified with 5.37 - 10.74 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) in combination with 2.32 or 4.65 M kinetin (Kn) formed somatic embryos after transfer to liquid half-strength MS (1/2MS) medium with 2.69 M NAA and 1.16 M Kn. Furthermore, promotion of embryo formation was also observed in callus developed on medium with 4.52 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and Kn after transferral to 1/2MS liquid medium containing 10% coconut water (CW)/coconut toddy (CT). Somatic embryos developed into plantlets at the highest frequency (98%) after transferral to solid 1/2MS medium containing 10% CW/CT. All the plantlets were acclimatized in soil and survived under field conditions, and they were morphologically indistinguishable from the source plant. 
23016584|In vitro techniques are very useful for conserving plant biodiversity, including (a) genetic resources of recalcitrant seed and vegetatively propagated species, (b) rare and endangered plant species and (c) biotechnology products such as elite genotypes and genetically engineered material. Explants from recalcitrant seed and vegetatively propagated species can be efficiently collected under field conditions using in vitro techniques. In vitro culture techniques ensure the production and rapid multiplication of disease-free material. Medium-term conservation is achieved by reducing growth of plant material, thus increasing intervals between subcultures. For long-term conservation, cryopreservation (liquid nitrogen, -196C) allows storing plant material without modification or alteration for extended periods, protected from contaminations and with limited maintenance. Slow growth storage protocols are routinely employed for a large number of species, including numerous endangered plants, from temperate and tropical origin. Cryopreservation is well advanced for vegetatively propagated species, and techniques are ready for large-scale experimentation in an increasing number of cases. Research is much less advanced for recalcitrant species due to their seed characteristics, viz., very high sensitivity to desiccation, structural complexity and heterogeneity in terms of developmental stage and water content at maturity. However, various technical approaches should be explored to develop cryopreservation techniques for a larger number of recalcitrant seed species. A range of analytical techniques are available, which allow understanding physical and biological processes taking place in explants during cryopreservation. These techniques are extremely useful to assist in the development of cryopreservation protocols. In comparison with crop species, only limited research has been performed on cryopreservation of rare and endangered species. Even though routine use of cryopreservation is still limited, an increasing number of examples where cryopreservation is used on a large scale can be found both in genebanks for crops and in botanical gardens for endangered species.
4293379|Root apices from in vitro cultured garlic (Allium sativum) cloves of cvs. ABEN and GT96-1 were used as axenic explants for organogenic callus production and plant regeneration experiments. Explants cultured in media based on those of Chu and co-workers (N6) or Murashige and Skoog (MS) could induce organogenic callus after 8 wk culture in darkness. Both media were supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (
29736220|In an effort to develop a sustainable protocol for the micropropagation of a shy suckering elite chrysanthemum cv. Arka Swarna (yellow pompon type), in vitro cultures were established using surface-sterilized nodal microcuttings (1-1.5 cm) from polyhouse-grown plants on MS medium containing 3% sucrose, 0.25% phytagel, and 5 M benzyl adenine (BA) or kinetin. Microbial contamination in the range of 6-24% was encountered during the first in vitro passage. Apparently clean cultures after one passage on MS basal medium were transferred to medium with BA or kinetin (0, 1, 5, 10, or 20 M) in culture bottles, and were monitored for eight in vitro passages (1 mo. each) for growth and microbial contamination. Plant growth regulator (PGR)-free medium was the best for sustainable micropropagation over successive in vitro passages yielding a single shoot from cultured microcuttings. Higher cytokinin levels inhibited rooting and induced one or more shorter shoots with close nodes resulting in low propagation rates. All apparently clean stocks revealed covert endophytic bacteria during tissue-indexing using bacteriological media. Three distinct bacterial morphotypes were isolated from such stocks, identified based on 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis as different morphotypes of Curtobacterium citreum. The endophytes tended to show obvious growth on chrysanthemum culture medium with increase in cytokinin levels (5-20 M), but such growth was not noticed in inoculations on MS medium without plants. Sustainable micropropagation of cv. Arka Swarna for more than 2 yr with the resident endophytic bacteria in covert form was realized on PGR-free MS medium giving a net propagation rate of three to four times over a subculture cycle of 2-3 wk.
4293690|Somatic embryogenesis represents a promising tool for mass propagation of elite genotypes of conifers. The efficiency of the technique strongly depends on cultivation conditions, with the exogenous saccharide supply being one of the most important factors. Different types and concentrations of saccharides have been empirically evaluated with respect to production of acceptable numbers and quality of somatic embryos for particular conifer species. Only a few recently published papers have focused on deeper studies of carbohydrate metabolism, enabling insight into the physiological background of the crucial effects of carbohydrates. Generally, saccharides are known to serve as carbon and energy sources, osmotic agents, stress protectants, and signal molecules in plants. This review collects and critically discusses the experimental data on exogenous saccharide supplies, resulting endogenous levels, and key enzyme activities obtained from the most thoroughly described genus Picea. In conclusion, it stresses the necessity to broaden the studies and consider the multiple roles of saccharides during conifer somatic embryogenesis.
4293856|Plant tissue culture media, sterilized through commercial filter membrane units, inhibited plant cell growth and development. Embryogenesis was suppressed in microspore cultures of Brassica napus and anther cultures of Triticum aestivum, and in vitro pollen development was suppressed in B. napus. Inhibition of growth and development occurred on media that had been filter-sterilized in low volumes through non-washed filter membrane units of all brands tested, including Nalgene, Corning, Millipore, and Sartorius membrane products. Similar results were obtained with Costar Transwells and Millipore inserts (Millicell-CM, -HA, and -PCF). These deleterious effects were eliminated by washing the membranes with water followed by a small volume of the medium. Media sterilized by filtration through washed filters produced significant improvements of growth and development of embryos and pollen.
20461641|Induction of somatic embryogenesis in Pinus armandii var. amamiana, an endemic and endangered species in Japan, was initiated from megagametophytes containing immature zygotic embryos on both media with and without plant growth regulators. Across nine open-pollinated families initiation frequency ranged from 0 to 20%, with an average of 1.5%. Embryogenic cultures were maintained and proliferated on a medium supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (3 M) and 6-benzylaminopurine (1 M). Maturation of somatic embryos occurred on medium containing maltose (50 g l), activated charcoal (2 g l), abscisic acid (100 M), and polyethylene glycol (100 g l). The frequencies of germination and plant conversion of somatic embryos differed among the embryogenic lines from 16 to 51% and from 12 to 40%, respectively. Growth of regenerated somatic plants has been monitored in the field.
4293623|Hairy root cultures of Lycopersicon esculentum L. Mill cv. Pera were established by infection of leaf explants with Agrobacterium rhizogenes LBA 9402. The pattern of peroxidase isoenzymes in these tissues was similar to that of roots excised from tomato plants grown in hydroponic cultures. Hairy root cultures may be an appropriate system to analyze the peroxidase involvement in the response of isolated roots to salt stress, avoiding the problem of wounding or changes in hormone levels observed in roots excised from plants. The cultures of hairy roots allowed the evaluation of changes in peroxidase patterns not only in the tissue but also in the culture medium. Hairy roots were subcultured in Murashige and Skoog liquid medium with or without 100 mM NaCl to investigate the evolution of growth, total peroxidase activity of the tissue and culture medium, and changes in the peroxidase isoenzyme patterns under each condition of growth. Control cultures showed a growth index higher than those reported for other hairy root cultures, and it was even higher in the presence of 100 mM NaCl. The total peroxidase activity in the tissue was similar for control and salt-treated roots. Even when the total peroxidase activity of the medium decreased under salt treatment, NaCl induced secretion of a highly basic peroxidase and inhibition of the secretion of some acidic isoenzymes. These changes may explain the physiological role of these enzymes in the response to salt stress that we will possibly establish through a future study of the biochemical properties of those peroxidases.
23254894|The basal salt formulation of a medium is a vital but often overlooked component in many in vitro applications, as it regulates the growth and morphology of plant tissues by providing essential nutrients. The MS and B5 formulations are the two most widely used basal media, yet they are suboptimal for many species. The objective of this study was to evaluate the BDS (modified B5) basal salt formulation for in vitro growth and development using rice, maize, soybean, cotton, onion, tobacco, muscadine, raspberry, and gerbera daisy as test species. The responses measured for each species included callus growth (biomass production), plant regeneration, micropropagation rate, hairy root growth, and production of secondary metabolites. BDS was compared to MS, B5, and BABI, a high-calcium version of BDS (440 mg/l CaCl 2 ). For the majority of the species and responses measured, the results obtained with BDS and/or BABI were equal to or better than those obtained with MS or B5. Because of the wide range of plant species and in vitro systems included in this study, we conclude that BDSor simple variations of BDS, such as BABIare better balanced for a variety of uses in plant biotechnology, research, and production systems than either MS or B5.
40663765|Passiflora alata in vitro organogenesis was studied based on explant type, culture medium composition, and incubation conditions. The results indicated that the morphogenic process occurred more efficiently when hypocotyl segment-derived expiants were cultured in media supplemented with cytokinin and AgNO incubated under a 16-h photoperiod. The shoot bud elongation and plant development were obtained by transferring the material to MSM culture medium supplemented with GA and incubated in flasks with vented lids. Histological analyses of the process revealed that the difficulties in obtaining plants could be related to the development of protuberances and leaf primordia structures, which did not contain shoot apical meristem. Roots developed easily by transferring elongated shoots to 1/2 MSM culture medium. Plant acclimatization occurred successfully, and somaclonal variation was not visually detected. The efficiency of this organogenesis protocol will be evaluated for genetic transformation of this species to obtain transgenic plants expressing genes that can influence the resistance to Cowpea aphid borne mosaic virus.
4293155|Adventitious shoot induction from zygotic embryo and seedling explants of Cycas revoluta was studied, with reference to both nitrogen formulation of the medium and light. The presence of nitrate as a sole source of nitrogen in Klimaszewska and Keller (KK) medium did not promote shoot induction; on the other hand, shoot induction was promoted by the use of ammonium-containing media, i.e., Schenk and Hildebrandt (SH) and Murashige and Skoog (MS). In the case of zygotic embryos, the percentage of responding explants and the number of regenerated shoots were significantly higher on SH medium than on MS medium. With seedling explants, shoot induction was not affected by the use of SH medium versus MS medium. Photoperiod also influenced bud formation and development. The absence of light during shoot induction stimulated callus formation and very few differentiated shoots. Shoot induction from zygotic embryos was positively affected by the application of 4- and 8-wk photoperiod exposures, the combination SH medium/8-wk photoperiod exposure giving the best results in terms of shoot induction and development. Rooting of shoots was improved by their culture in medium containing NAA.
20064952|This paper reports a part of our studies on large-scale T-DNA-mediated gene tagging in Arabidopsis thaliana. To enhance the chance of tagging specific stress-responsive genes of this species by monitoring the preferential insertion of the T-DNA into the actively transcribed loci, we exposed the root explants to low temperature (LT), abscisic acid (ABA), and extracellular enzymes (EXE) of the plant pathogen Erwinia carotovora prior to transformation by Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Both LT and ABA reduced the frequency of transformation; with these treatments, the average transformation frequencies were 8.1% and 2.6%, respectively. However, in explants pretreated with EXE the transformation frequency was 89.0%, similar to that obtained in control materials (92.6%). Transgenic calli developed from these explants did not require any treatment with azacytidine (azaC) for efficient shoot regeneration. Furthermore, this treatment enhanced multiple insertion of the T-DNA into the plant genome; within a population of EXE-treated transgenic plants, the number of lines harboring at least three copies of the integrated T-DNA was much higher (61%) than that observed in an untreated population (34%).
4293569|Residual macronutrients, carbon source, and gibberellic acid (GA
20461562|Rapid propagation of Pogostemon heyneanus Benth. (Lamiaceae) was accomplished through culture of node explants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing N-benzyladenine (BA). Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and gas chromatographic (GC) analysis of in vitro-derived progenies were used to determine the true-to-type nature of in vitro-derived plantlets. At the optimum level of BA (2.22 M), the axillary buds underwent a degree of dedifferentiation to become small globular green masses from which a mean of 17.1 shoots were developed within 40 d. Retaining the culture without subculture enhanced the number of shoots (&gt;30 shoots). Increased callus proliferation was observed at higher concentrations of BA in concomitance with a reduction in number of shoots. However, prolonged culture without subculture (more than 60 d) initiated 25-30 shoot buds from the callus. Culture of node segments excised from in vitro shoots on fresh medium with optimal BA (2.22 M) exhibited a similar response, but with an increase of shoots (mean of 26.3 shoots per node) within 40 d. Subculture of shoot clumps on half-strength MS basal medium resulted in elongation (more than 4 cm) of most of the shoots along with the development of new shoots. Shoots developed were rooted most successfully on half-strength MS medium with 4.9 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). Plantlets derived from the best rooting medium established in small cups exhibited 95% survival. Plantlets successfully established in field conditions exhibited morphological characteristics identical to the source plant. The RAPD profile of the in vitro-derived plants and source plant, using 10 random primers, was similar. The gas chromatogram of the extracted oils from in vitro-derived plants and the source plant showed similar patterns.
20461552|Release of inorganic mercury pollutants into shallow aquatic environments has resulted in the bacterial production of a more toxic organic mercury species, methylmercury. The bacterial organomercurial lyase (MerB) catalyses the protonolysis of the carbon-mercury bond and releases Hg(II), a less toxic, non-biomagnified form of mercury. Our objective was to engineer eastern cottonwood (Populus deltoides), a fast-growing tree adapted to growth in riparian environments, with the merB gene to explore its potential for phytoremediation of mercury. We produced multiple eastern cottonwood clones expressing a modified bacterial merB gene, confirmed that the gene was expressed in the transclones and tested the regenerated plants for their ability to tolerate exposure to an organic mercury source, phenylmercuric acetate (PMA), in vitro and in hydroponic culture, compared to wild-type control trees. Transgenic merB plants expressed high levels of MerB protein and showed some evidence of higher resistance to the organic mercury than wild-type plants, producing longer roots under exposure to PMA in vitro, although hydroponic culture results were inconclusive. Our results indicate that in order for merB to be useful in eastern cottonwood trees designed to degrade methylmercury at mercury-contaminated aquatic sites, it will probably need to be combined with other genes such as merA.
20065026|A plant regeneration system from cell suspension cultures was established in an important ornamental crop, Limonium sinuatum Mill. cv. 'Early Rose'. Friable callus was initially induced from leaf segments of in vitro-cultured seedlings on 0.25% gellan gum-solidified half-strength Murashige and Skoog [1/2MS] medium containing
4293063|Significant improvements were achieved in the production of haploid and doubled haploid plants from isolated microspore culture of wheat c.v. Chris on a defined media. Procedures found to be of benefit included: A 7-day pretreatment of anthers in 0.4 M mannitol plus the macronutrients from FHG medium; the inclusion of 4.5 mg/liter abscisic acid in the pretreatment solution; the isolation of microspores from pretreated anthers by vortexing; and the use of phenylacetic acid (PAA) as the auxin source in MS medium. The best response was achieved with 4.0 mg/liter PAA in MS medium containing 90 g/liter maltose as the sugar source. Under these conditions, 68% of viable microspores underwent division, and an average of 93 embryos and 92 green plants were regenerated per 100 anthers used. The root-tip chromosome number and the fertility of 114 regenerating green plants revealed that 75% were completely fertile spontaneously doubled haploids.
4292964|Cell division-dependent activity of a histone H3 promoter from alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) has been shown through the analysis of both transgenic Nicotiana tabacum L. plants and a M. varia L. cell line. A chimeric gene was used to assay the activity of the histone H3 promoter in both transgenic systems. The chimeric gene was composed of 284 bp of 5' upstream sequence from an alfalfa histone H3 genomic clone fused to the
23255669|A genetic transformation protocol was developed using the transfer of a synthetic CP4 EPSPS transgene, as a conditional positive selectable marker, into commercially relevant zonal pelargoniums using an Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain in combination with a novel step-down glyphosate selection system. The transformation efficiency based on independent T-DNA integration events averaged 1.9 % over 10 experiments. Some 273 independent transformants were produced within an average time of 6 mo from explant inoculation with Agrobacterium to plantlet recovery. For plantlet recovery, three aromatic amino acids were incorporated into the rooting medium to ameliorate the accumulative effects of glyphosate selection. The T-DNA also contained a mutant ethylene receptor (etr1-1) cDNA from Arabidopsis thaliana, under control of the petunia flower-specific, floral-binding protein promoter, to confer ethylene insensitivity. However, delayed flower senescence was not obtained. The transformation protocol provides a reliable method to add herbicide resistance and other traits to zonal pelargonium.
41318710|Somatic embryos were obtained from a 60-yr-old Quercus suber L. tree. Leaf expiants were cultivated on Murashige and Skoog medium with 30 g1 sucrose, 3 g 1 gelrite, pH adjusted to 5.8, and different growth regulator combinations.Callus induction took place at 24  1C in the dark during the first 3 wk. After 3 mo. calluses that showed embryognie structures were transferred to the same medium without growth regulators. Somatic embryogenesis was only observed in calluses induced on E3 medium (supplemented with 4.5 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 9.0 M zeatin). On average, 7.5% of the initial expiants formed embryognie calluses in this medium. Somatic embryo proliferation was high due to secondary embryogenesis. On average, 10% of the somatic embryos germinated and 40% of these germinated embryos converted into plants. Plants were elongated on the same medium without growth regulators and acclimated to greenhouse conditions.
4292988|Proliferation of terminal and axillary buds of 20 yr-old Pinus caribaea and P. kesiya trees was obtained on half strength DCR medium supplemented with
20541031|Due to the rapid rate of worldwide consumption of nonrenewable fossil fuels, production of biofuels from cellulosic sources is receiving increased research emphasis. Here, we review the feasibility to produce lignocellulosic biomass on marginal lands that are not well-suited for conventional crop production. Large areas of these marginal lands are located in the central prairies of North America once dominated by tallgrass species. In this article, we review the existing literature, current work, and potential of two native species of the tallgrass prairie, prairie cordgrass (Spartina pectinata), and little bluestem (Schizachyrium scoparium) as candidates for commercial production of biofuel. Based on the existing literature, we discuss the need to accelerate research in the areas of agronomy, breeding, genetics, and potential pathogens. Cropping systems based on maintaining biodiversity across landscapes are essential for a sustainable production and to mitigate impact of pathogens and pests.
4292995|Embryogenesis and callus formation in Camellia japonica L., cv. Elegans and cv. Ville de Nantes (>50 yr old), were higher when anthers at tetrad stage or early uninucleate microspore stage were used. Direct embryo formation was obtained, both in anthers and anther-petaloids. Embryogenesis only occurred under light on modified Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine (MS10). Embryo production was higher from petaloids (2.2 to 3.5 embryos/petaloid) than from anther locules (1.2 to 1.5 embryos/anther). However, petaloid-derived embryos aborted by Week 10 of culture. The embryogenic efficiency of anthers was 5.3% for cv. Elegans and 4.1% for cv. Ville de Nantes. Scanning electron microscopy images showed that anther-derived globular embryos were covered by a layer of material of smooth texture. Shoot regeneration efficiency by organogenesis was 6.8%. Regeneration by embryogenesis was 60% for cv. Ville de Nantes and 97.5% for cv. Elegans.
25623029|Using seedlings derived from the shoot apex of annatto (Bixa orellana L. cv. Bico-de-Pato) we observed the rooting frequency of B. orellana, the number and length of roots and the rate of ethylene production during 30 d in culture. The rhizogenesis response was affected by auxins (NAA or IBA) and by both the ethylene biosynthesis precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) and the inhibitor 2-aminoethoxyvinylglycine (AVG). Auxin supplementation to the medium resulted in root induction, ethylene production, and an undesirable callusing in the epidermal and cortical tissues. Irrespective of the presence of auxins, supplementing the medium with ACC promoted ethylene biosynthesis and callusing, which resulted in increased cell proliferation mainly in the cortical and vascular tissues, while the epidermis was mostly unaltered. In both ACC and auxin-supplemented medium, increased ethylene production and callusing occurred, suggesting a synergistic effect between these two responses. ACC was capable of inducing adventitious root formation, but the roots produced had a wrinkled appearance when compared to normal roots. Conversely, AVG reduced ethylene production and callusing, while the epidermis, cortex, and inner tissues remained unaltered, regardless of the presence of auxins. AVG was beneficial in these aspects, although its application led to a reduction in the number of roots and in the average root length. In conclusion, it was not possible to establish a direct relation between ethylene and rooting, but we hypothesize that, under the experimental conditions described, ethylene may enhance tissue sensitivity to auxin. However, ethylene did not seem essential to the rhizogenesis process in annatto.
4293754|To achieve reliable stable transformation of sweet potato, we first developed efficient shoot regeneration for stem explants, leaf disks, and petioles of sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam.) cultivar Beniazuma. The shoot regeneration protocol enabled reproducible stable transformation mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105. The binary vector pIG121Hm contains the npt II (pnos) gene for kanamycin (Km) resistance, the hpt (p35S) gene for hygromycin (Hyg) resistance, and the gusA (p35S) reporter gene for
20064842|Somatic proembryos of mango (Mangifera indica L. cv. Hindi) were co-cultivated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain A208 harboring pTiT37-SE::pMON 9749 (9749 ASE). Transformed somatic proembryos capable of growing on selection medium containing 200 g/ml kanamycin produced the characteristic indigo blue precipitate in the presence of 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-glucuronic acid. These proembryos were chimeral consisting of transformed (blue) and nontransformed (yellow/white) cells. A stepwise selection strategy was found necessary to eliminate chimeras. a) Initial screening at 200 g/ml kanamycin to enable growth of transformed cells, b) further screening at 400 g/ml kanamycin to reduce chimeras, and c) recovery of pure transformed clones of proembryos in liquid selection medium with 100 g/ml kanamycin. The integration of the NPT II and GUS genes into mango genome was confirmed by Southern hybridization.
23326888|Pomegranate (Punica granatum L.) is known for its nutritional, medicinal, and ornamental importance. It is conventionally propagated by hardwood and softwood cuttings, but about 1 yr is needed before the rooted cuttings can be transplanted to the field. Propagation by seed is undesirable as populations are heterozygous and seed propagation leads to wide variations in tree and fruit characteristics. Several studies have been conducted on in vitro culture of pomegranate, and protocols have been developed for plant regeneration through organogenesis and embryogenesis from various types of explants. Tissue culture has enabled mass propagation of superior genotypes of both wild and cultivated varieties. However, successful application of tissue culture systems for genetic engineering of pomegranate is still limited. Molecular markers are essential for identification and discrimination of genotypes for genetic conservation, crop improvement, breeding programs, and commercialization of superior genotypes. These techniques may also be applicable to rapid identification and indexing of disease-free planting material. This review focuses on the biotechnological approaches that are being used for pomegranate improvement.
40793158|Powdery mildew, caused by the obligate biotrophic ascomycete Erysiphe necator, is one of the most destructive grapevine diseases worldwide. Cultivars of Vitis vinifera L, for wine and table grape production, are all susceptible to E. necator, whose attacks result in severe epidemics under the warm and dry conditions of the Mediterranean basin. The aim of the present study was to compare the susceptibility of different grapevine cultivars to E. necator by an in vitro assay for assessing the potentiality of this method in breeding programs for resistance to the pathogen. Leaves of 12 grapevine cultivars were spot-inoculated in vitro with about 10 conidia from five different isolates of E. necator, using colony growth and conidiation 3 wk post-inoculation as indicators of susceptibility to the disease. A remarkable difference was observed between highly susceptible cultivars like 'Baresana', 'Malvasia', 'Bianca', and 'Italia', and the less susceptible 'Alphonse Lavalle' and 'Ohanez', in accordance with their behavior in the field. No statistically significant differences were found in the virulence of E. necator isolates.
20064854|Thidiazuron (TDZ) was utilized to induce adventitious shoot formation from the hypocotyl region of cultured seed explants of peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.). Excision of the radicle from seed explants was more stimulatory to shoot initiation than removal of the epicotyl alone. Removal of both the radicle and the epicotyl from seeds resulted in a 37-fold increase in the frequency of shoot production when compared to intact seeds. Half seed explants with epicotyl and radicle removed produced the greatest number of shoots per explant. Explants from mature seeds were more responsive to TDZ than immature seed-derived explants. A 1-wk exposure to 10 M TDZ was sufficient to stimulate the initiation of adventitious shoots that subsequently developed into plants. High frequency of shoot initiation was readily induced in a variety of genotypes of A. hypogaea and a wild peanut (A. glabrata). Plants regenerated from shoots induced by TDZ were phenotypically normal and fertile.
20461740|An efficient somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration system was developed from shoot apex explants of finger millet, Eleusine coracana. Eight genotypes, CO 7, CO 9, CO 13, CO 14, GPU 26, GPU 28, GPU 45, and GPU 48, were assessed in this study. The maximum somatic embryogenic induction, at 98.6%, was obtained from explants cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 18.0 M dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 2.3 M kinetin. The highest number of shoot induction (26) was observed after transfer of embryonic callus to regeneration medium supplemented with 4.5 M thidiazuran and 4.6 M kinetin. Significant differences were observed between genotypes for somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration. GPU 45 gave the best response, while CO 7 was the least responsive under the culture conditions tested in this study. Regenerated plants were successfully rooted and grown to maturity after hardening in soil.
4293228|Considerable progress has recently been made in understanding adventitious root formation using physiological studies. It is recognized that rooting is a process consisting of distinct phases, each with its own requirements. In this review, the successive phases in the rooting process are described and the possible roles of wounding-related compounds, auxin, ethylene and phenolic compounds during these specific phases are discussed. Recent results are assisting the development of advanced rooting treatments. Molecular studies on rooting are underway and will be essential in revealing the mechanisms underlying adventitious root formation.
4293670|A sugar beet transformation method was developed using particle bombardment of short-term suspension cultures of a breeding line FC607. Highly embryogenic suspension cultures derived from leaf callus were bombarded with the uidA (gusA) reporter gene under the control of either the osmotin or proteinase inhibitor II gene promoter, and the npt II selectable marker gene. Transient uidA expression was visualized as 500-4000 blue units per 200 mg of bombarded cells 2d after bombardment. Stably-transformed calluses were recovered on both kanamycin and paromomycin media. The greatest number of GUS (+) calluses was obtained when 50 or
20541004|Efficient vegetative cloning in vitro requires definition of plant growth regulator regimes for each genotype, and therefore formulation of a uniform culture protocol for a genetically heterogeneous wild or uncultivated plant population is often impossible. The likelihood of cloning a wide array of plant genotypes by avoiding the use of plant growth regulator(s) was explored with Moringa oleifera Lamk., Moringa stenopetala (Baker f.) Cufod, and Moringa peregrina Forssk. ex Fiori tree seedlings. Propagation was achieved by multiple shoot regeneration from the cotyledonary node of decapitated seedlings, followed by axillary shoot growth from single node shoot segments and rooting of excised shoots. All steps were accomplished on basal Murashige and Skoog medium without plant growth regulator supplements. The results revealed competence for generation of multiple shoots from cotyledonary node tissue, stimulated by repeated shoot harvest, in seedlings of all three tree species. Tens of plants per seedling were regenerated in about 4 mo from culture initiation. In a given species clone size was seedling-dependent, which presumably stems from genotypic variability among seedlings in regeneration ability in vitro. By this means the laborious search for a plant growth regulator regime suitable for organogenesis induction and adapted per genotype became redundant, and biodiversity of the seed germplasm could be maintained. The approach ideally suits establishment of clones of wild plants of endangered species, like those of the Moringaceae, species with high ability for producing supplementary shoots, and without the need to add plant growth regulators, including the rooting stage.
42568876|Hyperhydricity is a physiological abnormality that frequently affects shoots that are vegetatively propagated in vitro. In this study, sugar beet (Beta vulgaris L. cv. Felicita) shoot tip expiants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with different concentrations of polyethylene glycol (PEG) 6000. We observed that higher concentrations of PEG 6000 and longer exposure (up to 4 wk) resulted in increasing levels of hyperhydration as well as browning and/or blackening of tissues in culture. A comparison of hyperhydric shoots with controls on the 28th day showed a marked increase in the content of water, phenolics, and malondialdehyde (MDA), which was positively correlated with an increase in the accumulation of PEG 6000. Selected antioxidant enzyme activities, including Superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), guaiacol peroxidase (POX), and polyphenol oxidase (PPO) also increased in hyperhydric shoots, especially at lower concentrations of PEG 6000. Regression analysis indicated that strong linear relationships exist between SOD-APX (R = 0.932), SOD-CAT (R = 0.753), SOD-total phenolic content (R = 0.966), APX-PPO (R = 0.842), APX-total phenolic content (R = 0.904), POX-CAT (R = 0.751), and CAT-total phenolic content (R = 0.806). Despite the correlation between different antioxidant enzymes and between the antioxidant enzymes and antioxidant compounds, was not able to prevent ROS damage in hyperhydric shoots. The negative correlation between SODMDA, POXMDA, CATMDA, and MDAtotal phenolics also indicated an increase in antioxidant enzyme activities, yet the increase in these antioxidant compound contents did not prevent lipid peroxidation of in vitro propagated beet shoots.
4293888| Development of an efficient transformation method for recalcitrant crops such as sugar beet (Beta vulgaris L.) depends on identification of germplasm with relatively high regeneration potential. Individual plants of seven sugar beet breeding lines were screened for their ability to form adventitious shoots on leaf disk callus. Disks were excised from the first pair of true leaves of 3-wk-old seedlings or from partially expanded leaves of 8-mo.-old plants and cultured on medium with 4.4 M 6-benzylaminopurine for 10 wk. At 5 wk of culture, friable calluses and adventitious shoots began to develop. Rates of callus and shoot formation varied between breeding lines and between individual plants of the same line. Line FC607 exhibited the highest percentage (61%) of plants that regenerated shoots on explants. Among the plants with a positive shoot regeneration response, line FC607 also had the highest mean number (8.3  1.1) of shoots per explant. Individual plants within each line exhibited a wide range of percentages of explants that regenerated shoots. A similar variation was observed in the number of shoots that regenerated per explant of an individual plant. No loss of regeneration potential was observed on selected plants maintained in the greenhouse for 3 yr. Regenerated plants exhibited normal phenotypes and regeneration abilities comparable to the respective source plants. Based on our results, it is imperative to screen a large number of individual plants within sugar beet breeding lines in order to identify the high regenerators for use in molecular breeding and improvement programs. 
20064822|To identify possible reasons that may contribute to recalcitrance in plant protoplasts, the time course of new cell wall deposition was studied by scanning electron microscopy in protoplasts of a recalcitrant species, the grapevine. Results showed that microfibrils were developed after 2 days of culture, that complete cell wall formation occurred on Day 6 to 7 of protoplast culture, and its ultrastructural appearance was identical to that of grapevine leaf-derived callus cells. In addition, a comparative study was undertaken on [
4293857|Shoot cultures and callus cultures from roots and leaves of Hemidesmus indicus R. Br. (Asclepiadaceae) were established on Murashige and Skoog medium with various hormonal combinations. The production of antioxidants (lupeol, vanillin, and rutin) in shoot cultures, callus cultures derived from leaf cells and root cells, was compared with root and aerial portions of the parent plant. Shoot cultures and leaf callus cultures produced more antioxidants than root callus cultures. In vitro culture of this species might offer an alternative method for production of these important pharmaceuticals, which would reduce the collection pressure on this rare plant.
41496432|In China, the native Lanzhou lily (Lilium davidii var. unicolor) is used as an edible lily and is an important source of ascorbic acid. However, an efficient transformation system has not been developed for this important crop. Here, we describe the first successful genetic transformation mediated by particle bombardment in this lily variety. We used pCAMBIA-GLDH, which contains the l-galactono-1, 4-lactone dehydrogenase gene from apple, a hygromycin phosphotransferase gene as a selectable marker, and an intron-containing -glucuronidase gene as a reporter. In all, 35 transgenic lines were selected via GUS assays and PCR; from these, eight were confirmed by Southern analyses. Transgenic plants were transferred to soil and grown under greenhouse conditions. The levels of reduced ascorbate and total ascorbate (reduced ascorbate+oxidized ascorbate) in transgenic plants were found to be two to seven times those in non-transgenic controls.
4293654|Direct plant regeneration from flowering plant-derived lamina explants of Anthurium andraeanum Hort. cultivars Tinora Red and Senator was established on modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium. Cultivar difference, stage of source lamina and the position of explant in lamina, medium pH, and type of growth regulators significantly influenced direct plant regeneration. Explants from young brown lamina were superior to young green lamina. The half-strength MS medium containing
23016608|The subject of investigation was Chrysanthemum x grandiflorum (Ramat.) Kitam., 'Satinbleu'. Leaf explants and internodes were excised from the middle part of the donor sterile plant. Two methods of explant inoculation were applied: explants were placed polarly and horizontally. Modified MS medium (Murashige and Skoog 1962), supplemented with 11.4 M indoleacetic acid and 2.7 M 6-benzylaminopurine, were prepared to induce adventitious bud formation. Four dates of explant inoculation on the medium were tested: January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15. Thus, regeneration occurred in winter, spring, summer, and autumn. In the present study, a more intensive regeneration in 'Satinbleu' chrysanthemum was observed in summer and autumn than in spring and winter, irrespective of the kind of explant and the inoculation method.
4293521|The effects of DNA hypomethylating drugs (azacytidine and ethionine) on induction of microspore-derived calluses and embryos were studied in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cv. Igri. The results were as follows: (1) Yield of calluses and embryos pretreated with the different concentrations of azacytidine for 3 d was several-fold higher than that of the control. The highest yield of calluses and embryos in all treatments appeared at a concentration of
40981339|Somatic embryogenesis induction from in vitro cultured stamens and carpels is highly dependent on expiants' inoculation at specific developmental stages. To establish good correlations between measurable morphometric parameters of flowers or flower buds and developmental stages of micro-and macrosporogenesis, this procedure is the easiest way to simplify the in vitro culture procedures. These correlations were established here for the most important Iberian grapevine cultivar, the "Aragonez", named "Tempranillo" in Spain and "Tinta Roriz" in the north of Portugal, and were based in floral buds and anther measurements. The anther length, with a correlation coefficient of 0.90, proved to be the best morphometric parameter to follow microsporogenesis evolution. A correlation between micro-and macrosporogenesis evolutionary stages was also positively established, allowing the use of morphometric parameters for tracking ovule evolution as well. Carpels in several evolutionary stages were in vitro cultured to evaluate the aging effect on the capacity for somatic embryogenesis induction. Expiants inoculated in the earliest stages of macrosporogenesis presented the best results. Media culture formulations were also tested for ovary culture, with the best results being achieved with a 5:1 auxin/cytokinin ratio.
41432436|Interest in alternative fuel sources has grown in recent years in response to a confluence of factors, including concerns over our reliance on and increasing demand for fossil fuels as well as the deleterious environmental effects of fossil fuel extraction and utilization. The use of microbederived fuel alcohols is a viable alternative, as they are renewable, emit fewer greenhouse gasses, and require little augmentation of current energy infrastructure as compared to other sustainable transportation options such as electric vehicles and fuel cells. Here, we present a brief overview of candidate substrates for alcohol production with a focus on lignocellulosic sources, relevant microorganisms under research for industrialization and the biotechnological techniques used to improve alcohol production phenotypes.
4293908|Although seeds have been the subject of extensive studies for many years, their seed coats are just beginning to be examined from the perspective of molecular genetics and control of development. The seed coat plays a vital role in the life cycle of plants by controlling the development of the embryo and determining seed dormancy and germination. Within the seed coat are a number of unique tissues that undergo differentiation to serve specific functions in the seed. A large number of genes are known to be specifically expressed within the seed coat tissues; however, very few of them are understood functionally. The seed coat synthesizes a wide range of novel compounds that may serve the plant in diverse ways, including defense and control of development. Many of the compounds are sources of industrial products and are components of food and feeds. The use of seed coat biotechnology to enhance seed quality and yield, or to generate novel components has not been exploited, largely because of lack of knowledge of the genetic systems that govern seed coat development and composition. In this review, we will examine the recent advances in seed coat biology from the perspective of structure, composition and molecular genetics. We will consider the diverse avenues that are possible for seed coat biotechnology in the future. This review will focus principally on the seed coats of the Brassicaceae and Fabaceae as they allow us to merge the areas of molecular biology, physiology and structure to gain a perspective on the possibilities for seed coat modifications in the future.
40793225|In traditional in vitro culture, the low CO concentration inside the vessels restricts photosynthesis and necessitates the addition of sucrose to the culture medium as the main energy source, thus bringing about changes in the absorption of mineral elements from the culture medium. In this study, we investigated macronutrient absorption and sugar consumption in Actinidia deliciosa Chevalier Liang and Ferguson cv. Hayward (kiwi), cultured on medium supplemented with varying amounts of sucrose (0, 10, and 20 g 1 ) under both heterotrophy and autotrophy, flushed with different concentrations of CO (non-ventilation, 300, 600, and 2,000  1 1 ). In ventilated systems with 20 g 1 of sucrose, sucrose absorption was less than under non-ventilation. The lowest rate of sucrose absorption was recorded when the expiants were cultured on medium supplemented with 20 g 1 of sucrose and flushed with 600 1 1 CO . Absorption of NO, PO, and Mg were high (maximum) at the end of the culture period (40 d) in expiants flushed with 600  1 CO that have been cultured 20 d in the presence of sucrose and then transferred to a sucrose-free medium. These autotrophic conditions promoted maximum plant growth in terms of both fresh and dry mass as well as the length and number of shoots and leaves. The study shows that to maintain an optimum regime of mineral nutrition for prolonged culture of kiwi in vitro, an increased amount of these three ions should be supplemented in Murashige and Skoog's medium.
20541046|Rice has emerged as a model monocot for studies in agriculture and biotechnology due to its relatively small genome and a ready accessibility to plant material. Tissue culture is one of the tools required for genetic transformation and some breeding programs, and the selection of high-frequency regenerator types is essential for success in these technologies. Thirty-three rice entries with agricultural and biotechnological characteristics of interest were screened with the aim to identify the best regenerators. Entries that exhibited between 50% and 90% regeneration frequencies include 'Taipei-309,' 'Super Dwarf,' 'Norin' (japonica types), PI 312777, 'Ali Combo' (indica types), 'STG-S,' and 'LA3' (red rice types). One third of the entries tested were at least two times better at regeneration than the oftencited regenerator 'Nipponbare.' Those entries showing at least 85% frequency of greening or somatic embryo formation at 15 or 30 d on regeneration medium ultimately produced whole plants after 45 d on regeneration medium at high frequency (at least 40%); those entries not reaching the 85% threshold of greening by Days 15 or 30 exhibited moderate (15-40%) to low (less than 10%) frequency of whole plant regeneration. This greening response suggests the means for an early prediction system for identification of useful rice regenerator lines, which would be beneficial for high-throughput screening of germplasm as well as for decreasing the time and cost of in vitro culture.
23016744|Sugarcane breeding, while key to continued improvement of pest and disease resistance and to increasing sucrose and biomass yields, is constrained by the length of time taken to release a new cultivar (10 14 yr). Forty years of international research into sugarcane in vitro culture has delivered many well-developed systems that are routinely applied to research and commercial activities, namely: (a) micropropagation of genotypes; (b) production of disease-free material from excised apical meristems; (c) international germplasm exchange; (d) generation of somaclones; (e) rapid disease and pest resistance screening; and (f) germplasm conservation. This review outlines several in vitro techniques, discussing how protocols have been tailored to address pertinent research issues and exploring possible commercial applications in the sugar industry to reduce the time frame to release a new cultivar and decrease demands on resources such as land and labour.
4292967|Cell suspensions of Musa acuminata ssp burmannicoides and Musa acuminata ssp malaccensis were obtained by culturing embryogenic callus initiated from immature zygotic embryos in liquid medium. Plant regeneration was then achieved through somatic embryogenesis. Germination of these embryos occurred in a modified MS medium containing auxin and cytokinin. Plant recovery frequencies were 20 to 36%. This method may allow a better utilization of biotechnologies in genetic improvement of the Musa diploid species, essential for banana and plantain breeding.
4293878|The development of robust plant regeneration technology in cereals, dicots and ornamentals that is in turn coupled to a high-frequency DNA transfer technology is reported. Transgenic cereals that include maize, Tripsacum, sorghum, Festuca and Lolium, in addition to dicots that include soybean, cotton and various ornamentals such as petunia, begonia, and geranium have been produced following either somatic embryogenesis or direct organogenesis independent of genotype. Coupled with these regeneration protocols, we have also identified several interesting genes and promoters for incorporation into various crops and ornamentals. In addition, the phenomenon of direct in vitro flowering from cotyledonary nodes in soybean is described. In in vitro flowering, the formation of a plant body is suppressed and the cells of the cotyledonary node produce complete flowers from which fertile seed is recovered. This in vitro flowering technology serves as a complementary tool to chloroplast transformation for developing a new transgenic pollen containment strategy for crop species. Recently, the center has undertaken to screen the expression response of the 24 000 Arabidopsis genes to nitric oxide. This signaling molecule upregulated 342 genes and downregulated 80 genes. The object here was to identify a population of promoters that can be manipulated by using a signaling molecule. In addition, in keeping with the mission of enhancing greenhouse profitability for North West Ohio growers, we cloned a number of genes responsive for disease resistance from ornamentals that play an important role in disease management and abiotic stress. We have constructed a plant transformation vector with CBF3 gene under the rd29A promoter for engineering cold and freezing tolerance in petunia. Leaf discs of Petunia x hybrida v26 were used for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, and 44 hygromycin-resistant TO plants were obtained. The presence of CBF3 gene was confirmed in all the transgenic plants by PCR and Southern analyses.
4293020|A field test was established in 1987 to evaluate the growth of micropropagated black cherry plantlets and control seedlings. The study also evaluated effects of two container types on initial survival and growth and of pruning on stem form and growth. At the time of field establishment, plantlets had more extensive root systems than the control seedlings. Survival and height growth were not influenced by container size. Through the first three growing seasons, seedlings were larger than micropropagated plants, but growth differences diminished in the fourth through sixth seasons. Pruning increased the length of clear stem by nearly five-fold but adversely affected diameter growth. Although all clones were from ortet trees more than 50 yr old, none showed plagiotropic growth. Six-year results showed that in a well-prepared and maintained plantation, black cherry trees derived from tissue culture can have at least 80% survival, and growth rates in excess of 1 m per year.
4293015|The last decade has witnessed successful applications of plant tissue culture techniques in several crops. During that same period, studies in plant molecular genetics have also grown exponentially. Molecular markers (isozymes, RFLPs, and PCR-based markers such as RAPDs) are now used to study many of the current limitations of tissue culture. They have been used to investigate mechanisms that underlie somaclonal variation in the nuclear, mitochondrial, and chloroplast genomes. One recurrent problem with several tissue culture systems has been the difficulty of determining the origin of regenerants. Molecular markers represent powerful tools to determine precisely the origin of plants derived from microspore or anther culture, protoplast fusion, and other tissue culture studies where this information is important. With improvements in tissue culture techniques, populations of doubled haploid lines have been produced in several major crop species. Doubled haploid populations have proven useful in the production of molecular maps and in tagging important agronomic traits. This review describes the use of molecular markers to address fundamental and practical questions of plant tissue culture, and discusses the potential of improvements in molecular techniques and new molecular markers such as SCAR and STS along with high-resolution mapping strategies.
4293837|To overcome various disadvantages of conventional culture vessels for plant micropropagation, we previously developed the photoautotrophic micropropagation technique, with special mention for the first practical film culture system, the 'Miracle Pack' (MP), which was made of fluorocarbon polymer film (Neoflon[REGISTERED TRADE MARK SIGN] PFA film) and supported by a polycarbonate frame. While the PFA film has superior thermal stability, high light transmittance, and high gas permeability, making the MP system (MP-PFA) superior to conventional culture vessels for the micropropagation of various plant species, its high cost is a disadvantage. In this study, a possible alternative of lower-cost OTP[REGISTERED TRADE MARK SIGN] film made of TPX (4-methyl-1-pentane polymer) and GPP (a polypropylene), which possesses similar characteristics to PFA film, is evaluated to develop a novel disposable film culture vessel, termed 'Vitron,' for culturing Eucalyptus (urophylla x grandis) plantlets. The three film culture systems, MP-PFA, MP-OTP (MP with OTP film), and Vitron, were placed under CO
4293333|The aptitude for organogenesis from normal hormone-dependent cultures very commonly decreases as the tissues are serially subcultured. The reasons for the loss of regenerative ability may vary under different circumstances: genetic variation in the cell population, epigenetic changes, disappearance of an organogenesis-promoting substance, etc. The same reasons may be evoked for the progressive and eventually irreversible loss of organogenic totipotency in the course of neoplastic progressions from hormone-independent tumors and hyperhydric teratomas to cancers. As in animal cells, plant cells at the end of a neoplastic progression have probably undergone several independent genetic accidents with cumulative effects. They indeed are characterized by atypical biochemical cycles from which they are apparently unable to escape. The metabolic changes are probably not the primary defects that cause cancer, rather they may allow the cells to survive. How these changes, namely an oxidative stress, affect organogenesis is not known. The literature focuses on somatic mutations and epigenetic changes that cause aberrant regulation of cell cycle genes and their machinery.
4293694|The use of plant genetic engineering to augment plant breeding programs is significantly strengthened if novel trait(s) can be introduced directly into elite germplasm. Implementing this technology to sorghum breeding programs has been hampered by the lack of an efficient and transferable protocol that is suitable with elite genotypes. This study was conducted to identify parameters that maximize in vitro culture performance in sorghum targeting a specific elite genotype, C2-97, which possesses enhanced agronomic characteristics. Three different tissue culture media formulations, MS, N6, and M11 were evaluated. M11 medium contains approximately 16% and 85% more total nitrogen and sevenfold and threefold higher levels of potassium phosphate than MS and N6 formulations, respectively. Culture performance of C2-97 across the three media formulations was compared to sorghum genotypes that were previously reported to be amenable to genetic engineering, namely Tx430, P898012, Bwheatland, and C401. Maximum embryogenesis induction was observed on M11 medium for all genotypes tested, with greater than 70% embryogenic calluses occurring on immature embryos derived from the C2-97 genotype cultured on M11 medium.
4293483| We studied the effect of - and -cyclodextrins on in vitro rooting of jojoba (Simmondsia chinensis (Link) Schn.) shoots. When 0.03-0.5 mM of cyclodextrins were added to modified Murashige and Skoog culture medium containing 0.015 mM of indolebutyric acid as 1-wk pulse treatment, rooting percentage increased by approximately 100% with respect to controls. Addition of cyclodextrins induced earlier rooting. An increase in rooting following treatment with cyclodextrins was also observed in the absence of indolebutyric acid, indicating that both compounds promote rooting per se. 
4293302|Tissue-specific patterns and levels of gene expression were characterized in transgenic Gladiolus plants that contained the phosphinothricin acetyltransferase
20171599|Rate of plant cell enlargement, measured at intervals of 3 min using a sensitive linear transducer, oscillates with a minimum period of about 24 min that parallels the 24-min periodicity observed with the oxidation of NADH by the external plasma membrane NADH oxidase and of single cells measured previously by video-enhanced light microscopy. Also exhibiting 24-min oscillations is the steady-state rate of cell enlargement induced by the addition of the auxin herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or the natural auxin indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Immediately following 2,4-D addition, a very complex pattern of oscillations is frequently observed. However, after several hours a dominant 24-min period emerges. The length of the 24-min period is temperature compensated and remains constant at 24 min when measured at 15, 25 or 35C, despite the fact that the rate of cell enlargement approximately doubles for each 10C rise over this same range of temperatures.
4292965|Fertile transgenic maize plants (T
23016597|The endangered tree Gomortega keule remains only in small, isolated populations surrounded by timber plantations in the biodiversity hotspot of central Chile. This species, belonging to the monotypic family Gomortegaceae, produces edible fruit and high-quality wood, but its difficult propagation makes conservation essential. The percentage of seed germination is less than 40%, germination time exceeds 12 mo, and cuttings fail to root. These difficulties have stimulated efforts to explore in vitro approaches for propagation. Cultures were established from zygotic embryos; the optimum culture conditions for shoot proliferation were semi-solid Woody Plant Medium (WPM) with 20 g/l sucrose, 0.1 mg/l -naphthaleneacetic acid and 1.0 mg/l 6-benzylaminopurine, at 18C. Explants required about 12 mo in culture before stabilized growth resulted in consistent shoot production. Regenerated shoots excised from parental explants developed a normal morphology 1 mo after transfer to WPM with 2.0 g/l of activated charcoal, and lacking plant growth regulators. These normal shoots were rooted with a treatment of 7 d on WPM without activated charcoal, but containing 20 mg/l indole-3-butyric acid, followed by return to the same medium with 2.0 g/l activated charcoal, without growth regulators, for 1 mo. Regenerated plants were transferred to compost and covered with transparent plastic sleeves. The latter were opened gradually to decrease humidity and to establish plants under glasshouse conditions. There is an urgent requirement to extend this protocol to material collected from diverse sites and to introduce micropropagated specimens into the wild and living plant repositories to conserve this endangered species.
4293945|The effect of 3-indoleacetic acid (IAA), 6-furfurylaminopurine (kinetin), and gibberellic acid (GA
20064915|Over 500 independent transgenic rice plants have been obtained by the biolistic method with an average transformation frequency of 9.7% for japonica variety Taipei 309. A tight selection procedure using 50 mg/l of hygromycin B successfully prevented the growth of nontransformed tissues. Analysis of the T0 transgenic rice plants revealed that more than 97% of the transgenic plants were morphologically normal and more than 80% were at least partially fertile. The
4293289|Linseed flax (Linum usitatissimum L.) was transformed by bombarding hypocotyl tissues with gold particles coated with plasmid DNA carrying the
4293825|Traditional breeding has been widely used in forestry. However, this technique is inefficient because trees have a long and complex life cycle that is not amenable to strict control by man. Fortunately, the development of genetic engineering is offering new ways of breeding and allowing the incorporation of new traits in plant species through the introduction of foreign genes (transgenes). The introduction of selected traits can be used to increase the productivity and commercial value of trees and other plants. For example, some species have been endowed with resistance to herbicide and pathogens such as insects and fungi. Also, it has been possible to introduce genes that modify development and wood quality, and induce sexual sterility. The development of transgenic trees has required the implementation of in vitro regeneration techniques such as organogenesis and somatic embryogenesis. Release of transgenic species into the agricultural market requires a standardized biosafety regulatory frame and effective communication between the scientific community and society to dissipate the suspicions associated with transgenic products.
4293803|The growth retardant ancymidol inhibited gibberellin biosynthesis and enhanced hyperhydric malformation of Narcissus leaf sections cultured in liquid medium. Superoxide dismutase activities were examined by spectrophotometry and native polyacrylamide gel analysis, and gibberellin and hydrogen peroxide levels were determined spectrophotometrically in either hyperhydric or non-hyperhydric leaf sections. In ancymidol-treated hyperhydric leaf sections, superoxide dismutase activity and hydrogen peroxide levels were higher during the initial culture period, when hyperhydric malformation occurred, than in control untreated leaf sections. At a later stage, when the meristematic centers started to form on ancymidol-enhanced hyperhydric leaf sections, superoxide dismutase activity, hydrogen peroxide, and gibberellin levels were significantly lower in hyperhydric leaf sections than in non-treated leaf sections. The changes in superoxide dismutase activities, hydrogen peroxide, and gibberellin levels appeared to be related to hyperhydric malformation and meristematic center initiation.
4293864|In vitro collecting is the process of initiating tissue cultures in the field. In order for in vitro collecting to be broadly available as a technique for collecting plant germplasm, the levels of contamination in such cultures must be controlled. Two techniques for in vitro collecting were compared: leaf punch and needle collecting. The effectiveness of these methods for collecting leaf and stem tissues from plants at tropical and temperate sites was compared. Stem tissue collected by the needle collecting method gave cultures with an average contamination percentage of 31% and 16%, from the tropical and temperate sites, respectively, while with the leaf punch method, average contamination percentages were 90% and 69%. The effectiveness of antimicrobial agents in reducing contamination in leaf punch cultures was evaluated. Addition of the fungicide benlate and the antibiotics, cefotaxime and vancomycin, to the leaf punch collections reduced contamination to an average of 30% in the tropical collections and 35% in the temperate collections. Over 90% of both tropical and temperate species collected in multiple samples of 10 or more had at least one clean sample using this medium. The use of either the leaf punch method in combination with a fungicide and antibiotics or the needle collecting technique yielded a high percentage of clean tissues for study and growth.
4293014|Callus capable of plant regeneration was initiated at a higher frequency from the basal leaves of in vitro plants (70% explants) as compared to cormel slices (30% explants) when cultured on medium containing various concentrations of auxin. The greatest number of plants were regenerated from 4-mo.-old callus (112 plants/g fresh weight callus) cultured on medium containing 10 mg/liter (
4293784|Adventitious root and shoot formation was obtained from cotyledon fragments of chestnut (Castanea sativa Mill.) and these processes followed two phases. In a first stage after detachment of the embryonic axis, the cotyledon fragments in culture formed a cotyledon petiole, which elongated for about 6d. Thereafter, root primordia arose at the tip of the cotyledon petioles, followed by normal root development. In some cases, the cotyledon petioles showed adventitious shoot regeneration from a nodular structure previously formed at the end of the petioles. The presence or absence of growth regulators did not significantly influence root regeneration, whereas cytokinins stimulated shoot formation. The processes of root and shoot differentiation were studied also at the histological level. Observation with a light microscope showed that the developing root apical meristems were connected with a vascular bundle of the cotyledon petiole. Similarly, shoot bud meristem connections were observed with vascular tissue inside the nodular structure.
4293618|Use of lysozyme was tested for treatment of bacterial contaminations in in vitro shoot cultures of quince (Cydonia oblonga) 'BA 29' and the hybrid (Prunus persica x P. amygdalus) rootstock 'GF 677'. Shoots which had been contaminated for about 1 yr by Bacillus circulans and Sphingomonas paucimobilis were treated in liquid culture, at pH 4.5, with
42568437|Three Daphne species (Thymelaeaceae) were propagated in vitro using media enriched with natural ingredients including coconut water, pineapple pulp, arabinogalactan, chitosan, and conditioned medium containing exudates of the green alga Desmodesmus subspicatus.High vigor of proliferative shoots and enhanced rooting efficiency were obtained.The propagation rate for shoot cultures of Daphne caucasica and Daphne tangutica increased significantly when cultured in the presence of 10 mlL- coconut water or 10 mlL- pineapple pulp. Addition of 10 mlL- pineapple pulp, 10 mlL- coconut water, or 20% conditioned medium to the culture medium stimulated organogenesis in D. caucasica. The percentage of rooted shoots in this difficult-to-root species reached 80% in enriched medium. Daphne jasminea plants rooted efficiently on media without growth regulators but supplemented with 10 mlL- pineapple pulp or 10 mlL- coconut water. Plants of D. caucasica and D. jasminea were successfully acclimatized to greenhouse conditions. Biochemical evaluation of pineapple pulp using thin-layer chromatography revealed the absence of natural auxins. However, the low-molecular-weight fraction (<500 Da) obtained via dialysis significantly stimulated rhizogenesis in each species tested.
23016743|Selectable marker genes (SMGs) are still useful to efficiently obtain transgenic plants, although marker-free techniques are available, but with limitations. The presence of SMGs, especially bacterial antibiotic resistance genes, in transgenic crops is criticized. Fortunately, several genes isolated from plants are available that can serve as SMGs. Here, I review the plant genes reported to have been used as SMGs. Some are wild-type genes that, when overexpressed, confer a selective advantage during in vitro plant regeneration, whereas some are mutated genes encoding enzymes resistant to inhibitory chemicals. Most of the genes have not yet been tested in a significant number of species. The effect of SMGs expression on the phenotype has often been superficially examined and should be better characterized. The sequence conservation of some SMGs could allow derivation of a SMGs from any plant species, if an intragenic or cisgenic approach to genetic engineering is preferred. I conclude that several promising SMGs have been isolated from plants, allowing avoidance of bacterial genes for transformation, transgene stacking, and intragenic or cisgenic engineering approaches. Nonetheless, further testing in more plant species would be useful to fully assess phenotypic neutrality, efficiency, and versatility. Patent rights restrict the immediate use of most plant SMGs for commercial applications, but freely available marker systems do exist.
4292986|Commercialization and marketing of agricultural products derived from recombinant DNA technologies is now becoming a reality. Genetically engineered tomatoes are poised to appear in supermarket shelves in the United States sometime next year, with other crops, including cotton, maize, soybean, rapeseed, potatoes, cucurbids, raspberries and others, scheduled for release 1 to 2 yr later (Hamilton and Ellis, 1992). One of the major breakthroughs responsible for the rapid creation of commercializable products has been the development of gene transfer methods capable of introducing foreign DNA into elite germplasm. This review examines some of the principles and applications of such gene transfer technologies in relation to conventional alternatives that are limited by cell culture, host, and genotype. Advantages and disadvantages of various gene transfer methods will be discussed. Special emphasis will be given to particle bombardment, as methods based on this technology paved the way for the engineering of a number of important agronomic species.
23321148|Cold acclimation is the process which leads to the development of freezing tolerance in plants. It is a multigenic process requiring a programmed and integrated genetic capacity to put the appropriate mechanisms into place for plants to withstand the adverse environment. A plethora of genes are expressed in response to low temperature, and the molecular responses associated with the induction of their expression are complex. Nevertheless, significant advances have been made in the field of abiotic stress tolerance in the past 10 years. Several genes, including the WCS120 gene family from wheat, have been studied extensively to gain insight into the molecular events leading to the expression of cold-inducible genes and cognate proteins. I will review the recent advances in our understanding of the transcriptional, post-transcriptional, and post-translational events involved in the response to the low temperature stimulus. The knowledge gained from these studies should allow the establishment of strategies aimed at the improvement of freezing/cold tolerance in economically important crops.
4293646|An efficient in vitro plant regeneration system from cotyledons was established in tetraploid Isatis indigotica Fort. Factors influencing shoot regeneration from cotyledons, including culture medium type, combinations of plant growth regulators, and sucrose concentrations in the medium, as well as illumination were investigated. Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium was found to be best for promoting shoot regeneration, followed by Gamborg's B
23016589|The use of in vitro techniques for conservation has been rising steadily since their inclusion in The Convention on Biological Diversity and The Global Strategy for Plant Conservation. Unfortunately, bryophytes are often overlooked in conservation initiatives, but they are important in a number of large-scale ecosystem processes, i.e. nutrient, water and carbon cycling. There is a long history of the use of tissue culture in cultivating bryophytes, and many species respond well to in vitro techniques. For 6 yr (20002006), The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew and the UK statutory conservation agencies supported a project for the ex situ conservation of bryophytes. Living and cryopreserved collections of UK threatened species were successfully established and the cryopreserved collection continues to be maintained. Other in vitro conservation collections are maintained over Europe, at botanic gardens, museums and by individual university researchers, but there is no coherent European collection of bryophytes for conservation, or standardisation of techniques. A major issue for many in vitro collections is the maintenance of within species genetic diversity. Such diversity is considered to be important, as it is the basis by which populations of species can adapt to new conditions and evolve. We are proposing to establish a European network for in vitro conservation of bryophytes. We envisage that this will include living collections, cryopreserved collections and spore collections. Conservation of genetic diversity would be a priority and the collections would provide a valuable resource for conservation initiatives and support research into rare and threatened species.
4293337|The present work provides a system for regeneration of clary sage (Salvia sclarea L.) via organogenesis using plant tissue culture techniques in a multistage culturing medium containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) (
20064869|The sugarcane mosaic virus is a pathogen that causes severe disease to sugarcane. New varieties resistant to insects and pathogens have been developed in the last 70 yr through sugarcane breeding programs, but this takes between 10 and 15 yr. Tissue culture techniques are used as an aid for sugarcane improvement to increase desirable agronomic characteristics, such as disease resistance. In the present work, we report the generation of somaclonal variants from sugarcane (Saccharum spp.) cultivar PR62258 susceptible to Sugarcane Mosaic Virus, by somatic embryogenesis. These new variants identified as AT626 and BT627 are resistant to Sugarcane Mosaic Virus strains A and B, respectively. We established an indirect enzyme linked inmunosorbent assay (ELISA) to test the presence of the viral particles in plants, and it was demonstrated that the leaves of resistant somaclones do not contain viral particles. The field performance of the somaclones AT626 and BT627 was similar to the field performance of the mother plant PR62258.
20461752|Podophyllum peltatum is an important medicinal plant that produces podophyllotoxin (PTOX) with anti-cancer properties. We established the embryogenic cell and adventitious root culture systems in P. peltatum and analyzed PTOX production. For the growth of embryogenic cell clumps in shake flask culture, the most efficient concentration of 2,4-dichloroacetic acid (2,4-D) was 6.78 M, and the growth of embryogenic cell clumps was 15.9-fold increased in Murashige and Skoog MS liquid medium with 6.78 M 2,4-D after 3 wk of culture. To induce adventitious roots, half-strength MS medium showed the best results for adventitious root induction compared to full strength MS medium and MS medium lacking NHNO. Optimal indole-3-butyric acid concentration for adventitious root formation was 14.78 M. In liquid medium, the frequency of adventitious root formation from root segments was 87.7% and the number of laterally formed adventitious roots was 22.3 per segment. PTOX production in embryogenic cells and adventitious roots was confirmed by liquid chromatography and electro-spray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry analysis. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis revealed that adventitious roots contained higher PTOX than embryogenic cell clumps. Elicitor treatment (20 M methyl jasmonate) strongly enhanced the production of PTOX in both embryogenic cell clumps and adventitious roots. This observation suggests that both embryogenic cell and adventitious root culture can be adopted to produce PTOX.
20461551|A translational fusion between the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) and neomycin phosphotransferase (NPTII) genes was used to optimize parameters influencing Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of Vitis vinifera L. cv. Thompson Seedless. The corresponding bifunctional protein produced from this EGFP/NPTII fusion gene allowed for a single promoter to drive expression of both green fluorescence and kanamycin resistance, thus conserving promoter resources and eliminating potential promoter-promoter interactions. The fusion gene, driven by either a double cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (CaMV 35S) promoter or a double cassava vein mosaic virus (CsVMV) promoter, was immobilized into Agrobacterium strain EHA 105. Somatic embryos capable of direct secondary embryogenesis were used as target tissues to recover transgenic plants. Simultaneous visualization of GFP fluorescence and kanamycin selection of transgenic cells, tissues, somatic embryos, and plants were achieved. GFP expression and recovery of embryogenic culture lines were used as indicators to optimize transformation parameters. Preculturing of somatic embryos for 7d on fresh medium prior to transformation minimized Agrobacterium-induced tissue browning/necrosis. Alternatively, browning/necrosis was reduced by adding 1 g l of the antioxidant dithiothreitol (DTT) to post co-cultivation wash media. While combining preculture with antioxidant treatments did not result in a synergistic improvement in response, either treatment resulted in recovery of more stable embryogenic lines than did the control. A 48 h co-cultivation period combined with 75 mg l kanamycin in selection medium was optimal. DNA analysis confirmed stable integration of transgenes into the grape genome; 63% had single gene insertions, 27% had two inserts, and 7 and 3% had three and four inserts, respectively. Utilizing optimized procedures, over 1400 stable independent transgenic embryogenic culture lines were obtained, of which 795 developed into whole plants. Transgenic grapevines have exhibited normal vegetative morphology and stable transgene expression for over 5 yr.
4293048|The culture conditions for direct, indirect, and repetitive embryogenesis were established for Camellia japonica cv. Elegans and cv. Ville de Nantes. Direct embryo production from leaves averaged 15.3 embryos per responsive leaf on Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) with
20461712|Nodal shoot segments of four grapevine genotypes well known for their Fe-chlorosis characteristic [Vitis vinifera  Vitis berlandieri Fercal, resistant; V. berlandieri  Vitis rupestris 1103 P, mid-resistant; Solonis (Vitis riparia  V. rupestris  Vitis candicans)  Othello (Vitis labrusca  V. riparia  V. vinifera) 1613 C, susceptible; V. vinifera L. cv. Perlette, resistant] were cultured in vitro. The effects of three levels of iron sodium ethylene-diaminotetraacetate (FeNaEDTA; 9, 18, 36 mg l) and three mixtures of iron and 840 mg l NaHCO (sodium bicarbonate) in the Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented 4.9 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) were compared. We assayed the chlorosis rating of leaves, total chlorophyll of leaves, dry shoot weights of the plantlets, and active and total Fe content of the leaves. The most suitable concentration in determining the reaction of genotypes to iron chlorosis was 9 mg l FeNaEDTA. Bicarbonate addition had negative effects on the iron intake and development of plants. While all genotypes were affected by non-ferrous conditions, Fercal and Perlette were found to be the most resistant genotypes and 1613 C rootstock as the most susceptible. The chlorosis rating of the tested genotypes ranked according to their known degree of tolerance and susceptibility to lime-induced chlorosis. The results of this study showed that the in vitro technique could successfully be used in viticulture to get results in shorter times in the studies, aiming at breeding new rootstocks and varieties suitable to calcareous soil conditions and determining the reactions of existing genotypes to Fe chlorosis.
4292945|We describe a method for obtaining and proliferating multiple, fertile plants from somatic embryos of several experimental and commercial soybean varieties. Shoot-bud cultures were initiated by placing cotyledonary and torpedo-stage somatic embryos derived from immature seedling cotyledons onto Cheng's basal medium (CBO) containing 0.5 to 2.5 mg/liter 6-benzyladenine (6-BA). Prolific masses of adventitious shoots were produced within 6 to 18 wk. These cultures can be propagated indefinitely with regular subcultures to CBO containing 0.5 mg/liter 6-BA. Individual shoots were separated from the clusters and were rooted on CBO medium without exogenous growth regulators. By this method any number of plants can be produced from individual somatic embryos. The risk of losing valuable genotypes (e.g., derived from in vitro selection or transformation) due to inefficient embryo germination and embryo-to-plant conversion is thus greatly reduced. Plants were established in the greenhouse and progenies were field tested. Progenies from shoot-bud culture-derived plants showed no somaclonal variation for the seven recessive marker traits or quantitative agronomic characters evaluated under field conditions.
4293507|The genus Acacia comprises many species which are important for firewood, fodder, tannin, pulpwood, shelterbelts, and soil improvement. Species of Acacia are dispersed widely in tropical and subtropical regions of Australia, South America, Asia, and Africa. In the past, the majority of forest trees have been propagated through the traditional family forestry method, where trees are grown from seeds and propagated sexually. Clonal propagation through tissue culture offers an alternative to vegetative practices and has the potential to provide high multiplication rates of uniform genotypes, resulting in short-term gains. Extensive in vitro research and success have been achieved for a number of forest trees, including the Pinus, Eucalyptus, and Acacia species. Acacia mearnsii is fast becoming one of the most important trees in South African forestry. For this reason it is important to employ biotechnology to enable the industry to compete in the international market. However, for these procedures to be commercially viable, the post-culture performance in the field must be improved because the initial financial outlay is high. This review provides an overview on in vitro work done on the Acacia species.
20064950|When cotton (Gossypium hirsutum, DPL 90ne) ovules are removed from the carpel on the day of anthesis and placed on an appropriate medium, fiber cells will differentiate in vitro from the ovule epidermis. Alpha-amanitin, an inhibitor of poly (A) RNA synthesis was added to ovule cultures at selected times after culture initiation to determine the timing of events in fiber development. Replicate cultures were initiated from day of anthesis, cotton ovules with -amanitin being added to media at final concentrations ranging from 0.05 g/ml to 5.0 g/ml. After 21 d in culture, ovules were evaluated for fiber length, percentage of ovules producing fiber, fiber dry weight, and fiber cellulose content. Cultures treated with -amanitin on the day of anthesis to 2 d postanthesis were prevented from forming normal numbers of fiber cells. Addition of -amanitin to cultures between 2 and 10 d postanthesis reduced the length that fiber cells attained in culture after 21 d. Addition of -amanitin to cultures at 4 d postanthesis had as much an effect on the accumulation of cellulose in the fiber cell wall as the later addition of the inhibitor at 8 to 10 d postanthesis. The inhibitory effect of -amanitin on fiber growth was reversible when ovules were transferred to amanitin-free medium within 2 d after culture initiation. Ovules placed on media containing -amanitin for 5 d or longer could not overcome the inhibitory effects when transferred to media lacking the inhibitor. These results indicate critical time periods when RNA transcripts important for specific phases of development are being synthesized.
4293589|We present a strategy for establishing a transgenic doubled haploid maize line from heterozygous transgenic material by means of anther culture. Compared to conventional inbreeding, the in vitro androgenesis technique enables a faster generation of virtually fully homozygous lines. Since the androgenic response is highly genotype-dependent, we crossed transgenic, non-androgenic plants carrying a herbicide resistance marker gene (pat, encoding for phosphinothricin acetyl transferase) with a highly androgenic genotype. The transgenic progenies were used as donor plants for anther culture. One transgenic and three non-transgenic doubled haploid lines have been established within approximately 1yr. The homozygosity of all four doubled haploid lines was tested by analysis of simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers at 19 different loci. Polymorphisms were found between the lines but not within the lines, indicating the homozygous nature of the entire plant genome gained by anther culture. Southern blot analysis revealed that the transgenic donor plants and their doubled haploid progeny exhibited the same integration pattern of the pat gene. No segregation of the herbicide resistance trait has been observed among the progeny of the transgenic doubled haploid line.
25623024|The application of modern biotechnology for improvement of chili pepper productivity requires an efficient in vitro plant regeneration protocol. In this study, a reliable protocol was developed for the in vitro regeneration of four types of chili, Capsicum annuum var. annuum (Jalapeo and Serrano), C. annuum var. glabriusculum/aviculare (Piquin), and C. chinense (Habanero) by direct organogenesis using three different explants (cotyledon, hypocotyls, and embryo) and three induction media. All evaluated culture media promoted the formation of adventitious shoots. When embryos or hypocotyls were used as explants, morphologically normal adventitious shoots developed, while culturing cotyledons resulted in nonelongating rosette-shaped shoots. The highest in vitro regeneration efficiency (14.6 shoots per explant) was achieved when Habanero chili hypocotyls were grown on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 1.7 M indole-3-acetic acid and 22.2 M N-benzyladenine. This regeneration rate is higher than that obtained in previous reports. Regenerated plants were ready to be transferred to the greenhouse 13 wk after the explant culture. An evaluation carried out under greenhouse conditions showed differences in agronomic performance between in vitro regenerated plants and plants developed from seeds with the magnitude of the differences depending on the genotype being studied.
4293442|Osmoticum (high sucrose concentration) and chilling (4 C) treatments were assayed in order to promote germination (radicle elongation) and plant conversion of Quercus suber somatic embryos. Those treatments were applied before embryos were set to germinate on Murashige and Skoog (MS) liquid medium. Chilling for 2 mo. improved germination rate (best results close to 100%). On the other hand, that treatment increased plant conversion, especially when high sucrose concentration was used. The best results were obtained with
40663774|Residual nutrients from Murashige and Skoog medium were analyzed following a 5-wk multifactor experiment. Plant density, sugar concentration, and plant growth regulators (benzyladenine and ancymidol) were examined using four genotypes of daylily (Hemerocallis) to determine which factors most influenced nutrient use. Active nutrient uptake was observed for 11 nutrients (potassium, sodium, copper, phosphorus, iron, calcium, magnesium, manganese, boron, sulfur, and zinc) with lower concentrations in spent medium than in the tissue water volume (fresh-dry mass expressed as mL HO). Two patterns of nutrient use were visualized by correlative analysis of nutrient uptake. Greatest growth lowered plant nutrient concentrations of potassium, sodium, phosphorus, iron, and copper in all genotypes, and luxuriant uptake was indicated with least growth. Potassium, sodium, iron, and copper concentrations in plant dry matter were equal to or exceeded what is observed in vigorously growing nursery plants. However, phosphorus concentration in plant dry matter was low enough to be considered deficient when compared to Hemerocallis plants in nursery production. With a second group of nutrients (calcium, magnesium, manganese, and boron), the genotype, "Barbara Mitchell" lacked active uptake and was deficient. Calcium concentration was low in all plants compared to Hemerocallis grown under nursery conditions (" Barbara Mitchell" was the lowest concentration) despite active uptake by the other three genotypes" Brocaded Gown," "Mary's Gold," and "Heart of a Missionary." Magnesium concentration in these three genotypes was low enough in vessels with greatest growth to question its adequacy at high densities. Increased sucrose in medium reduced the dry matter concentrations of all tested nutrients. Plant growth regulators had less impact on nutrient use than genotype and plant density. Nutrient uptake may be an important physiological component of genotypic variation.
4293317|The semi-arid tropics are characterized by unpredictable weather, limited and erratic rainfall and nutrient-poor soils and suffer from a host of agricultural constraints. Several diseases, insect pests and drought affect crop productivity. Developing stress-resistant crops has been a worthwhile activity of the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT). Mandated crops of ICRISAT, including groundnut, pigeonpea, chickpea, sorghum and pearl millet, are the main staple foods for nearly one billion people in the semi-arid tropics. Genetic transformation provides a complementary means for the genetic betterment of the genome of these crops. Judicious application of biotechnological tools holds great potential for alleviating some of the major constraints to productivity of these crops in the agricultural systems of the semi-arid tropics. This article reviews plant genetic engineering in relation to its applications in genetic enhancement and the improvement of important crops of the semi-arid tropics. For the benefit of nonbiotechnologists, a brief review of technical aspects of plant genetic engineering is also included.
20064905|Currently, Cereus peruvianus plants can be rapidly cloned in vitro via adventitious organogenesis using callus cultures; however, somaclonal variation is a problem. A method is described herein using lateral bud explants to produce multiple shoots for clonal propagation. Apical and lateral explants were cultured on MS (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) media with factorial combinations of the auxins indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), and cytokinins 6-benzyladenine (BA) and N-(2-furanyl-methyl)-1-purine-6 amine (kinetin) at the concentrations 0.0, 0.01, 0.1,
42568817|Fusarium wilt, caused by Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cubense (Foc), is a destructive fungal disease of banana. Transferring antifungal genes into banana provides a feasible way to control fungal disease, but transformation frequencies for banana are often cultivar and cell line dependent. We investigated an efficient liquid medium selection protocol for an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation system for Furenzhi (Musa spp. AA group). Embryogenic cell suspensions (ECS) of Furenzhi were co-cultivated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105 harboring a plasmid containing the endochitinase gene chit42 from Trichoderma harzianum. After co-cultivation, GUS-positive ECS were selected in liquid medium with antibiotics, and compared to semi-solid medium selection. In total, 186 transgenic plantlets were obtained using M2S liquid medium (based on Murashige and Skoog salts) with hygromycin, whereas no transgenic lines were obtained in parallel experiments with semi-solid selection medium. Integration of the transgene was confirmed by PCR, and Southern blots which showed a single copy of the transgene had integrated into the banana genome in three plant lines. Expression of the transgene in regenerated plants was confirmed by -glucuronidase histochemical assays and real-time PCR. Both in vitro and ex vivo disease assays showed that the majority of transgenic lines (three of seven) expressing chit42 showed a higher level of resistance to Fusarium wilt (Foe race 4), whereas non-transgenic control plants were susceptible. These results imply a relationship between Foc4 disease resistance and the transcription levels of the transgene in the transgenic clones. This study may offer a promising approach to breed bananas resistant to the fungal disease Fusarium wilt.
42568799|Saussurea involucrata Kar. et Kir. is one of the most well-known Chinese medicinal plants, and it is utilized for a variety of medical conditions. Due to the overexploitation of this endangered species, it is crucial to develop methods for both conservation and propagation. To address this issue, we have developed and optimized a simple and effective vitrification process for the cryopreservation of S. involucrata callus tissue. The optimized method consisted of a 3-d incubation period on medium containing 0.3 M sucrose, transfer to a plant vitrification solution (PVS2) containing 30% (v/v) glycerol, 15% (v/v) ethylene glycol, 15% (v/v) dimethylsulfoxide, and 0.4 M sucrose first at 60% PVS2 for 40 min, then at 100% PVS2 for 60 min, followed by immediate immersion and storage in liquid nitrogen. To thaw the tissue, tissues were rewarmed at 40C for 2 min. This method resulted in a survival rate of approximately 56% and a regrowth rate of approximately 40%. Survival and regrowth were significantly improved by the addition of a low-temperature preincubation step. Incubating the calli at 4C for 12 d prior to initiating the optimized cryopreservation protocol increased the survival rate of the tissue to 75%, increased the regrowth rate to 60%, and more than doubled the number of regenerated shoots per explant. Following cryopreservation, greater than 90% of the regenerated shoots formed complete plantlets, and 81% of the regenerated plantlets survived and grew vigorously under greenhouse conditions.
20461726|The growth of black walnut shoot cultures was compared on media differing in nutrient formulation (MS, DKW, WPM, and 1/2X DKW), cytokinin type (ZEA, BA, and TDZ), and cytokinin concentration. On WPM and 1/2X DKW media, hyperhydricity was observed at frequencies of 60-100% compared with frequencies of 10-40% on the high-salt media (DKW and MS). All three cytokinins facilitated shoot regeneration from nodal cuttings, but recurrent elongation was only observed for BA (5-12.5 M) and ZEA (5-25 M) with mean shoot heights of 70-80 mm being possible after two culture periods (6-8 wk) for the fastest elongating lines. ZEA was effective across all six shoot lines with mean shoot heights of at least 35 mm over two culture periods, but two of the shoot lines were 'nonresponsive' to BA with mean shoot heights of&lt;15 mm. In contrast, when shoot tip explants were used for culture multiplication, ZEA was the least effective cytokinin with proliferation frequencies of only 30-40%. The proliferation frequencies were twice as great (75-87%) for TDZ (0.05-0.1 M), but most of the shoots regenerated were swollen or fasciated in morphology. High rates of proliferation (61-88%) were also possible using BA (12.5-25 M), but axillary shoots did not elongate well, growing to heights of only 5-10 mm, on average, after 4-5 wk. Since the cytokinin types and concentrations required for high-frequency (&gt;50%) axillary proliferation had adverse effects on the morphology and growth potential of the shoots, multiplication strategies based on the use of nodal cuttings are recommended.
4293259|Embryo sacs of maize isolated with a few layers of surrounding nucellus or completely isolated with digestive enzymes have resulted in either poorly visible or structurally damaged embryo sacs. We therefore developed a new, more successful method involving mechanical sectioning of maize ovaries using the Vibratome. Sections containing intact embryo sacs are viable and development is normal when sacs are cultured in vitro on semisolid Murashige and Skoog (MS) media. Embryo sacs produce endosperm (90%) and embryos (75%), and mature plants are obtained directly without callus formation or somatic embryogenesis. Immediate applications of this technique may include experimental fertilization and embryogenesis as well as genetic manipulation. Targeting of individual cells was demonstrated with microinjection and confocal microscopy. The methods developed in this study provide a way of studying maize embryo sac development and transformation.
4293667|In a micropropagation program, where it is of paramount importance to produce true-to-type planting material, somaclonal variation of any kind is undesirable. Variation among plants regenerated from tissue culture is termed 'somaclonal variation'. In banana, somaclonal variants of different types have been reported with regard to plant morphology. This article discusses various factors due to which somaclonal variations may arise. Somaclonal variation may be detected by visual screening or by using molecular markers such as randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD), amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP), and by cytological studies. Although somaclonal variation is undesirable in the context of micropropagation, it can be used to advantage for genetic improvement of banana, as has been described.
20064857|Plasmid rescue can provide an efficient way of cloning T-DNA-tagged genomic DNA of plants. However, rescue has often been hampered by extensive rearrangements in the cloned DNA. We have demonstrated using a transgenic line of Arabidopsis thaliana that the plant DNA flanking the T-DNA tag was heavily cytosine methylated. This methylation could be completely inhibited by growing the plants in the presence of azacytidine. Rescue of the T-DNA tag together with the flanking plant genomic DNA sequences from nontreated control plants into an modified cytosine restriction (mcr) proficient strain of Escherichia coli resulted in rearrangements of the majority of the rescued plasmids. These rearrangements could be avoided if the methylation was inhibited in the transgenic plants by azacytidine treatment or by cloning into an mcr-deficient strain of E. coli. The results indicate that cytosine methylation of the DNA in the transgenic plants is the main cause of the DNA rearrangements observed during plasmid rescue and suggest efficient strategies to eliminate such artifacts.
4293874|The MuDR/Mu transposons of maize are the most aggressive DNA transposons known in terms of their ability to increase the forward mutation frequency by ~ 100-fold. Their activities are held in check by multiple host mechanisms that restrict movement to late in development and that minimize the impact on the maize genome. Aspects of MuDR gene expression that are modulated include transcriptional start site choice, alternative intron splicing, and translational activity. Although not all features of MuDR transposase biology are understood, this element has been used to mobilize endogenous Mu elements and genetically engineered Mu transposons to conduct efficient transposon mutagenesis throughout the maize genome. RescueMu, which contains a copy of the pBluescript bacterial plasmid, has been used to sequence maize genes and to generate a large population of tagged alleles for subsequent genetic analysis. Derivatives of this element are in the testing phase for enhancer trap and activation gene tagging in maize.
4293106|Shoot multiplication was induced in cowpea, cv. Georgia-21, from shoot tip explants. Shoot tips, 5 mm long, were isolated from in vitro-grown seedlings and cultured on MS medium containing
29736155|Proteinase inhibitor II (PIN2) proteins from the Solanaceae family have been previously used in plant transformation to acquire protection against caterpillars. Some of these PIN2 proteins have been shown to exhibit exogenous activities against trypsin and/or chymotrypsin in vitro. Despite their application in conferring insect resistance in transgenic plants, the endogenous roles of this family of proteins in various plant species have not been well defined. To investigate the exogenous and endogenous functions of PIN2 proteins, cDNAs encoding PIN2 proteins from the weed Solanum americanum (American black nightshade), designated SaPIN2a and SaPIN2b, were cloned and characterized. The localization of S. americanum SaPIN2a and SaPIN2b mRNAs and proteins in the reproductive tissues destined to undergo developmental programmed cell death subsequently led to investigations into their function during seed development. Using plant transformation of lettuce and S. americanum, it was evident that: (1) the expression of SaPIN2a in transgenic lettuce conferred resistance to cabbage looper (Trichoplusia ni) caterpillars; and (2) the expression of siRNAs from a PIN2-RNAi construct resulted in transgenic S. americanum that were impaired in seed development. These results suggest that S. americanum PIN2 proteins not only enhance resistance to caterpillars (when expressed exogenously) but they function in inhibiting endogenous proteases that are expressed during seed development. Specifically, the aborted seeds of PIN2-RNAi lines showed abnormal endothelium that subsequently affected endosperm and embryo development.
4293636| Chlorophytum borivilianum Sant. et Fernand. ('Safed Musli'), an endangered Indian medicinal herb, is valued for its tuberous roots reputed to have aphrodisiac properties. Farmers in India cultivate this medicinal herb on a commercial scale because of its high economic value. To cater to the growing demand for planting material, a highly reproducible field-tested and cost-effective micropropagation scheme has been developed. Best shoot multiplication was achieved on agar-gelled Murashige and Skoog medium containing 22.2 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 3% sucrose. Phytagel at 0.2% showed slightly better response than BDH agar in terms of shoot multiplication, but the use of BDH agar was preferred due to its low cost. With the optimized conditions, more than 15000 plantlets could be produced in 20 wk. Plantlets subjected to hardening under agro-shadenet conditions during the monsoon months of high humidity showed better survival rate and growth compared to plantlets hardened in vitro and subsequently transferred to the greenhouse for acclimatization. Rate of plantlet survival was 87 and 90% under open field and agro-shadenet conditions, respectively. Plantlets grown ex vitro under agro-shadenet and field conditions produced tuberous roots which could be grown in the next season as a secondary propagule. We concluded that in vitro production of 'Safed Musli' was cost-effective compared to conventional propagation and holds great potential for commercial production. 
20064884|Stable genetic transformation of Picea mariana (black spruce) was obtained via particle bombardment into two target tissues, mature cotyledonary somatic embryos and suspensions from embryonal masses, with the Biolistic PDS-1000/He device. Seven transgenic embryogenic cell lines were obtained from the mature cotyledonary somatic embryos after secondary somatic embryogenesis from two different cell lines (R4F14 and 119794-014). The suspension cultures from embryonal masses produced five transgenic cell lines from one cell line (R4F14). Expression of the introduced -glucuronidase (GUS) and neomycin phosphotransferase II (NPT II) genes was detected by histochemistry and fluorometry, and by ELISA in 10 of the lines. Two lines showed only NPT II gene expression. Four of the five lines obtained after bombardment of suspensions of embryonal masses showed lower levels of expression of GUS and NPT II. The integration of the foreign genes was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction analyses and Southern hybridization for GUS and NPT II, and complex hybridization patterns were observed. The 12 transgenic lines obtained had a typical embryogenic morphology and were capable of maturation and germination. Over 40 transgenic trees were regenerated from one of the transgenic lines, and they have a normal phenotype.
20461696|An efficient and reproducible method for the regeneration of multiple shoots of brown oak (Quercus semecarpifolia Sm.) has been developed in which a part of the petiolar tube containing a primary shoot is used as the explant. Explants derived from in vitro grown seedlings were cultured either on Murashige and Skoog or Woody Plant medium (WPM) containing different concentrations of benzyladenine (BAP) throughout the range of 1-20 M. WPM supplemented with 20 M BAP was found to be best for adventitious shoot induction and for the multiplication of individual shoots. In-vitro-produced shoots were rooted using a two-step method. Firstly, shoots were cultured on WPM containing indolebutyric acid (IBM) at either 50 or 100 M for 24 or 48 h. Secondly, the shoots were transferred to plant-growth-regulator-free half-strength WPM. The second step not only considerably improved the rooting percentage but also minimized the formation of basal callus. The most effective first-step treatment was found to be 100 M IBA for 24 h, which initiated rooting at a frequency of 100%. Well-rooted plants were transferred to plastic cups containing nonsterile, sieved soil and farmyard manure, hardened under greenhouse conditions, and then successfully established in pots. This procedure is suitable for use in large-scale production of plants and may have potential application in additional oak species.
41432841|In vitro regenerated plants of rye, Secale cereale L., Ails and Merced cultivars, were studied to verify if genetic and/or epigenetic changes were promoted by in vitro conditions. Inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) fingerprints on HpaII/ MspI-digested and uncut DNA were generated. DNA digested with methylation-sensitive isoschizomers revealed epigenetic modifications, while modification of ISSR patterns obtained with undigested DNA indicated genetic changes. With this technique, it was possible to study both genetic and/or epigenetic changes within the same DNA sequences. The frequency of plants with at least one variation was high: 73% and 30% of rye plants showed at least one genetic change, and 50% and 73% carried at least one methylation change, in the Ails and Merced cultivars, respectively. Further analyses revealed that a considerable number of variable markers showed both types of modifications, indicative of both genetic and epigenetic changes. Moreover, genetic variation was related to the presence of the CCGG target in the analyzed bands. These results indicate the possible existence of a common mechanism connecting both types of variation.
41496437|The transcription factor encoded by the gene Knotted1 is a nuclear homeodomain protein, regulating meristematic cells at the shoot apical meristem. It has been demonstrated that Knotted1 (KN1) expression specifies stem cell fate in adventitious shoot induction in herbaceous plants. This gene may thus potentially identify the initiation of meristem development in adventitious shoot induction in difficult-to-regenerate plants such as Prunoideae. We isolated an almond (Prunus dulcis Mill.) KN1-type gene using degenerate primers targeting the most conserved regions of Knotted1 gene. The 5' and 3' ends of the isolated sequence were obtained by rapid amplification of cDNA endspolymerase chain reaction (RACE-PCR), and the gene was named P. dulcis Knotted1-like (PdKn1). PdKn1 transcripts were detected by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR mainly in shoot apical and axillary meristems. The RT-PCR and RTquantitative PCR PdKn1 expression in almond leaf expiants was found to anticipate the organization of adventitious shoot meristems. Apricot RNA isolated from induced leaf explants cross-hybridized with the almond probe PdKn1 in Northern blotting. We suggest that almond PdKn1 may be a useful marker to study the adventitious regeneration system by revealing the potential organogenic conditions, not only in almond but also in other Prunoideae.
4293554| Biotechnology has offered a nonconventional method of plant propagation and has been intensively applied as a conservation strategy for sustaining biodiversity for rare plants. In vitro conservation through micropropagation of Ochreinauclea missionis, a rare, endemic and medicinal tree species of Western Ghats in Karnataka region of India is reported. Multiple shoots were initiated from nodal explants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 8.8 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 0.3% (w/v) activated charcoal. Shoots were elongated in MS medium with a combination of 2.2 M BA and 5.3 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) or growth regulator-free medium. Individual shoots with a minimum of one node were excised and rooted in vitro on MS medium with 0.3% activated charcoal or ex vitro rooted by treatment with 49 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) for 30 min. Regenerants acclimated in Soil-rite exhibited 65% survival in the greenhouse. 
4293762| Studies were carried out to evaluate sugarcane bagasse as an alternative to agar for micropropagation of apple clones to reduce the cost of micropropagation and improve the quality of the propagules. Significant improvement in the in vitro rooting process, coupled with cost reduction, were obtained by the use of sugarcane bagasse as a substitute for the traditionally used agar-gelled medium. The tests were undertaken with micro-cuttings of the apple rootstock Marubakaido (Malus prunifolia Borkh.) using a rooting medium composed of half-strength Murashige and Skoog salts and vitamins, 3% (w/v) sucrose, and 0.49 M indole-3-butyric acid. The plants grown on sugarcane bagasse yielded a 22% increase in root length, 20% increase in plant length, and 63% increase in the number of roots, compared with agar-grown micro-cuttings. Particle size of the sugarcane bagasse had a significant impact on all those parameters, and the best results were obtained with bagasse comprising particles smaller than 0.18 mm. The results demonstrated that the sugarcane bagasse could be used effectively as a substitute for agar during rooting of apple shoots. 
23326873|Vitamin C (ascorbic acid, AsA) is an essential component for collagen biosynthesis and also for correct functioning of the cardiovascular system in humans. Plants and several animals can synthesize ascorbic acid, whereas humans lack the gene essential for ascorbic acid biosynthesis and must acquire the vitamin from their diet. In the present study, we developed a transgenic tomato plant (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) over-expressing the rat L-gulono--lactone oxidase (GLOase) gene driven by CaMV35S constitutive promoter. The over-expression of GLOase resulted in a 1.5-fold increase in AsA levels in transgenic tomato fruits, which was positively correlated with increased GLOase activity. The Southern and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction results revealed the stable integration of the transgene in the progeny of the engineered plants. The transgenic plants with increased vitamin C content in the fruit showed enhanced tolerance to abiotic stresses induced by methyl viologen, NaCl, and mannitol as compared with wild-type plants. The leaf disc senescence assay showed better tolerance in transgenic plants by retaining higher chlorophyll content compared with wild-type plants. The T1 plants survived under salt stress (200 mM NaCl) whereas wild-type plants were unable to survive such high salt concentrations. This study suggests that the increased accumulation of AsA could upregulate the antioxidant system which imparts improved tolerance against various abiotic stresses in transgenic tomato plants as compared with wild-type plants.
20064921|Hackelia venusta (Boraginaceae) is an endangered perennial herb endemic to the interior northwestern United States. Because of seed scarcity, micropropagation (an ex situ conservation strategy) could produce true-to-type plantlets suitable for reintroduction. We hypothesized that clones of predetermined size could be rapidly produced by supplementing multiplication and rooting media with minimal levels of cytokinin and auxin. Microshoots derived from shoot explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (1962) media supplemented with 1% (wt/vol) agar and 0.0001 to 10 M benzyladenine. Inverse regression estimates on 3 genotypes predicted that a target of 2.5 axillary microshoots per explant would require a minimal level of 0.04  0.02 M benzyladenine. Culture of 25 genotypes with 0.04 M benzyladenine resulted in an average of 2.3  0.1 axillary microshoots per explant. Elongated microshoots were transferred to media supplemented with 0.1 to 25 M indoleacetic acid. Clones rooted from 36% to 100% success after 4 wk in 2.0 M indoleacetic acid. Plantlets transplanted ex vitro with three or more roots survived at 84% versus 46% of plantlets with fewer roots. Up to 84% of the plantlets survived in a planting trial. The data suggest that shoot culture of Hackelia venusta, with minimal growth regulators, can produce axillary microshoots for reintroduction.
42568790|Selectable markers used in plant transformation, such as the bar gene, have been chosen for selection efficacy and for the absence of pleiotropic effects. Recent research has suggested that expression of bar in Arabidopsis affects the transcriptome, and in at least one barley cultivar, high bar expression has been associated with severe fitness reductions. However, the observed sensitivity in barley was thought to be an isolated case associated with a specific genetic stock. In this study, fitness reductions were observed in some nearisogenic lines in the background of the cultivar Garnet when the bar locus was homozygous. The fitness of the near-isogenic lines was correlated with the levels of bar mRNA in the donor parents. Previous studies had shown heritability of bar expression in F barley hybrids, so these results suggested that Garnet barley is intolerant of high phosphinothricin acetyltransferase activity. Phosphinothricin acetyltransferase activities were determined for eight nearisogenic lines that showed a range of phenotypes (apparently normal to abnormal and nonviable) when homozygous for bar. Fitness was clearly and negatively correlated with phosphinothricin acetyltransferase activity. These results suggest genetic variability for sensitivity to bar expression in barley, and the possibility of negative but nonobvious effects in apparently tolerant cultivars cannot be ruled out. Similar problems may be associated, but not yet detected, with other selectable markers. The potential for pleiotropic effects of selectable markers can be avoided by transformation strategies that enable the elimination of selectable markers.
20064865|Somatic embryos which originated from mature embryo axes of the chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) showed varied morphologies. Embryos were classified based on shape of the embryo and number of cotyledons. "Normal" (zygotic-like) embryos were bipolar structures with two cotyledons and a well-developed shoot and root apical meristem, whereas "aberrant" embryos were horn-shaped, had single and multiple cotyledons, and were fasciated. Histological examination revealed the absence of a shoot apical meristem in horn-shaped embryos. Fasciated embryos showed diaxial fusion of two embryos. Secondary embryogenesis was also observed, in which the embryos emerged from the hypocotyl and cotyledonary region of the primary somatic embryo. This report documents the absence of an apical meristem as a vital factor in the lack of conversion of aberrant somatic embryos.
20064942|Artemisinin (AN), a potent antimalarial drug that has been used for centuries as a folk remedy in China, is an effective treatment against quinine-resistant strains of Plasmodium. It can be produced through the in vitro culture of genetically transformed (hairy) roots. The effect of gibberellic acid (GA) on the growth and secondary metabolite production of hairy roots of Artemisia annua was investigated. Six different concentrations of GA were tested in shaker flasks to determine the optimum concentration. GA levels of 0.01-0.001 mg/l (28.9-2.89 M) provided the most significant increase in biomass, and 0.01 mg/l (28.9 M) produced the highest amount of AN. Investigation of growth kinetics showed that the use of GA at 0.01 mg/l (28.9 M) increased the growth rate of hairy roots of A. annua by 24.9%. Thus, the cultures treated with GA reached stationary phase faster than control cultures.
4293430|We have developed a new transformation method called MATVS (Multi-Auto-Transformation Vector System). The oncogenes (ipt or rol genes) of Agrobacterium are used as selectable markers to regenerate transgenic cells and to select marker-free transgenic plants in the MATVS. The chimeric ipt gene or the rol genes are combined with the site-specific recombination R/RS system to remove the oncogenes from the transgenic cells after transformation. We report here the application of MATVS to transformation of tobacco, aspen, rice and snapdragon. (1) The GST-MAT vector pMAT8 has the native ipt gene and the R gene with a chemical inducible promoter (GST-II-27). Use of the GST-MAT vector generated marker-free transgenic tobacco plants containing a single copy transgene at high frequency. (2) Use of the GST-MAT vector pRBI11 containing the rbcS 3B-ipt gene produced transgenic marker-free hybrid aspen plants without crossing. (3) Use of the ipt-type MAT vector, pNPI30GFP, containing the 35S-ipt and 35S-R genes, resulted in the regeneration of marker-free transgenic rice plants directly from infected scutellum tissues at high frequency within 1 mo. (4) Use of the rol-type MAT vector pNPI702, containing the rol genes and the 35S-R gene, produced transgenic marker-free plants of tobacco and snapdragon at high frequency without crossing. Our results show that the promoter of the ipt gene, the preculture periods of plant tissues and the culture medium are important factors to improve the generation efficiency of marker-free transgenic plants. We can rapidly produce marker-free transgenic plants without the production of ipt-shooty intermediates. Therefore, it is a most promising method to save time and work for the generation of marker-free transgenic plants in crops.
42568432|In plant tissue culture research, there is a constant need to search for novel substances that could result in better or more efficient growth in vitro. A relatively unknown compound, phloroglucinol (1,3,5-trihydroxybenzene), which is a degradation product of phloridzin, has growth-promoting properties. Phloroglucinol increases shoot formation and somatic embryogenesis in several horticultural and grain crops. When added to rooting media together with auxin, phloroglucinol further stimulates rooting, most likely because phloroglucinol and its homologues act as auxin synergists or auxin protectors. Of particular interest is the ability of phloroglucinola precursor in the lignin biosynthesis pathwayto effectively control hyperhydricity through the process of lignification, thus maximizing the multiplication rate of woody species and other species that are difficult to propagate. Phloroglucinol has also been used to improve the recovery of cryopreserved Dendrobium protocorms, increasing the potential of cryopreservation for application in ornamental biotechnology. Phloroglucinol demonstrates both cytokinin-like and auxin-like activity, much like thidiazuron, and thus has considerable potential for application in a wide range of plant tissue culture studies.
4293933| Protocols for both axillary bud proliferation and shoot organogenesis of Euphorbia pulchurrima Winter Rose were developed using terminal buds and leaf tissues. Greenhouse-grown terminal buds were placed on Murashige-Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with various concentrations of either benzlyaminopurine (BA) or thidiazuron (TDZ). Explants produced the greatest number of axillary buds on media containing between 2.2 and 8.8 M BA. The number of explants that produced axillary buds increased with increasing BA concentration. TDZ at concentrations between 2.3 and 23.0 M caused hyperhydricity of shoots and were not effective in promoting shoot proliferation. The most calluses and shoots were produced from leaf midvein sections from in vitro grown plants placed on the medium containing 8.8-13.3 M BA and 17.1 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) for 1 mo. before transferring to the medium containing only BA. Adventitious buds were produced only from red-pigmented callus, and explants that produced callus continued to produce adventitious shoots in the presence of IAA. Five-mo.-old shoots derived from shoot culture or organogenesis rooted readily in artificial soil with or without treatment with indolebutyric acid, and were acclimatized in the greenhouse. 
41432442|Different concentrations of methy1 jasmonate, spermine, casein hydrolysate, or progesterone combined with 16 mg/1 2 iP+ 4 mg/1 naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) were investigated in order to obtain higher multiplication rate and growth of Hippeastrum vittatum bulbs in vitro on MS basal medium. The highest multiplication rate (8.2 bulbs/explant) was attained with 80 mg/1 spermine, while the highest bulb fresh weight (1.23 g/bulblet) was obtained with 4 mg/1 methy1 jasmonate. Progesterone at 20 mg/1 or casein hydrolysate at 2.0 g/1 gave the highest leaf length (14.1 and 13.2 cm, respectively). So, it can be advised to use 80 mg/1 spermine combined with 16 mg/1 2 iP+ 4 mg/1 NAA to obtain the highest number of bulbs per expiant with moderate leaf length and bulb fresh weight. Chemical analysis showed alternations in the alkaloid type ratio and number of compounds in the bulbs treated with methy1 jasmonate (4 mg/1).
20461690|Gentiana kurroo (Royle), Gentiana cruciata (L.), Gentiana tibetica (King. ex Hook. f.), Gentiana lutea (L.), and Gentiana pannonica (Scop.) leaves derived from axenic shoot culture were used as explants. For culture initiation, leaves from the first and second whorls from the apical dome were dissected and cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with three different auxins: 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), or 3,6-dichloro-o-anisic acid (dicamba) in concentrations of 0.5, 1.0, or 2.0 mg/l; and five different cytokinins: zeatin, 6-furfurylamonopurine (kinetin), N-phenyl-N-1,2,3-thiadiazol-5-ylurea (TDZ), N-(2-chloro-4-pyridyl)N-phenylurea, or 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP). The cytokinin concentrations used were dependent on the type of cytokinin and varied between 0.25 and 3.0 mg/l. After 2 mo. of culture, the morphogenic response of explants was assessed. Frequency of embryogenesis was the highest for G. kurroo (54.7%) and dependent on plant growth hormones (PGRs). This gentian was the only species showing morphogenic capabilities on media supplemented with all applied combinations of PGRs, while none of the 189 induction media permutations stimulated somatic embryogenesis from G. lutea explants. G. tibetica and G. cruciata both produced an average of 6.6 somatic embryos per explant, while G. pannonica and G. kurroo regenerated at 15.7 and 14.2 somatic embryos per explant, respectively. Optimum regeneration was achieved in the presence of NAA combined with BAP or TDZ. This auxin also stimulated abundant rhizogenesis. Somatic embryos were also regenerated from adventitious roots of G. kurroo, G. cruciata, and G. pannonica. Somatic embryos converted into plantlets on half strength MS medium.
20461556|The regeneration of lily protoplasts isolated from suspension cells of Lilium japonicum was achieved by using the nurse culture method. The protoplasts divided only under the nurse culture application. The divided protoplasts grew into colonies and developed into visible calluses on a medium containing picloram. After the calluses were transferred to a hormone-free medium, plantlets formed from them. The highest frequency of plant regeneration was obtained on a medium containing 1 M gibberellin 4 (GA). The cleaved amplified polymorphic sequences (CAPS) method was used to confirm that the regenerants were not plants that had escaped from nurse cells. We were able to transplant the plantlets to soil in pots without acclimatization, and they showed normal growth.
4293538|Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated transformation has been used to obtain transgenic plants in 89 different taxa, representing 79 species from 55 genera and 27 families. A diverse range of dicotyledonous plant families is represented, including one Gymnosperm family. In addition to the Ri plasmid, over half these plants have been transformed with foreign genes, including agronomically useful traits. Plants regenerated from hairy roots often show altered plant morphology such as dwarfing, increased rooting, altered flowering, wrinkled leaves and/or increased branching due to rol gene expression. These altered phenotypic features can have potential applications for plant improvement especially in the horticultural industry where such morphological alterations may be desirable. Use of A. rhizogenes and rol gene transformation has tremendous potential for genetic manipulation of plants and has been of particular benefit for improvement of ornamental and woody plants.
20541048|An efficient transformation protocol was developed for Eucalyptus tereticornis Sm. using cotyledon and hypocotyl explants. Precultured cotyledon and hypocotyl explants were cocultured with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA 4404 harboring the binary vector pBI121 containing the uidA and neomycin phosphotransferase II genes for 2 d and transferred to selective regeneration medium containing 0.5 mg/l 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP), 0.1 mg/l naphthalene acetic acid, 40 mg/l kanamycin, and 300 mg/l cefotaxime. After two passages in the selective regeneration medium, the putatively transformed regenerants were transferred to Murashige and Skoog (MS) liquid medium containing 0.5 mg/l BAP and 40 mg/l kanamycin on paper bridges for further development and elongation. The elongated kanamycin-resistant shoots were subsequently rooted on the MS medium supplemented with 1.0 mg/l indole-3-butyric acid and 40 mg/l kanamycin. A strong -glucuronidase activity was detected in the transformed plants by histochemical assay. Integration of T-DNA into the nuclear genome of transgenic plants was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction and southern hybridization. This protocol allows effective transformation and direct regeneration of E. tereticornis Sm.
20461692|Ramie [Boehmeria nivea (L.) Gaud] is one of the most important perennial fiber crops in China. In vitro tissue culture of ramie could serve as an important means for its improvement through genetic transformation. To improve the regeneration capacity of ramie, the effects on plant regeneration of donor plant age, basal medium, plant growth regulators, and culture conditions were evaluated using explants derived from the cotyledon, hypocotyl, leaf, petiole, and stem of ramie seedlings. Cotyledons and hypocotyls excised from 4-d-old seedlings and leaves and petioles and stems from 15-d-old seedlings were optimal explants. The highest regeneration efficiency was obtained on Murashige and Skoog salts with Gamborg's B vitamins basal medium containing 2.27 M thidiazuron (TDZ) and 0.054 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) for the five explant types tested. A photoperiod of 16:8 h (light/dark) was found to be superior than continuous darkness for regeneration of ramie using TDZ. The regenerated shoots were transferred to hormone-free medium for shoot elongation and successfully rooted on half-strength Murashige and Skoog supplemented with 0.134 M NAA. The rooted plantlets with four to five leaves were transplanted to greenhouse for further growth.
40663766|The regeneration of plants via somatic embryogenesis liquid shake culture of embryognie calluses was achieved in Vigna mungo (L.) Hepper (blackgram). The production of embryognie callus was induced by seeding primary leaf expiants of V mungo onto Murashige and Skoog (MS) (Physiol Plant 15: 473-497, 1962) medium supplemented (optimally) with 1.5 mg/1 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. The embryognie callus was then transferred to liquid MS medium supplemented (optimally) with 0.25 mg/1 2,4-dichloro-phenoxyacetic acid. Globular, heart-shaped, and torpedo-shaped embryos developed in liquid culture. The optimal carbohydrate source for production of somatic embryos was 3% sucrose (compared to glucose, fructose, and maltose). L-Glutamine (20 mg/1) stimulated the production of all somatic embryo stages significantly. Torpedo-shaped embryos were transferred to MS (Physiol Plant 15: 473-97, 1962) liquid medium containing 0.5 mg/1 abscisic acid to induce the maturation of cotyledonary-stage embryos. Cotyledonary-stage embryos were transferred to 1/2-MS semi-solid basal medium for embryo conversion. Approximately 1-1.5% of the embryos developed into plants.
20461658|Studies on rooting of microshoots of smokebush (Cotinus coggygria Mill, var. Royal Purple), a woody ornamental, were carried out in vitro. Microshoots were rooted in a mixed-auxin regime (indole 3-acetic acid, indole butyric acid [IBA], and naphthalene acetic acid) or singly in the above auxins and the 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) over a wide concentration range. Indole butyric acid at 10 M proved to be the most suitable treatment, producing less basal callus, 100% rooting, and earlier root emergence than the other treatments. No roots were formed with 2,4-D. A 6-day root induction period was obtained with 10 M of IBA. Histological studies revealed increased mitotic activity after 3 d in culture in the medullary ray cells, which led to root primordium formation, several of which were formed simultaneously around the base of the explant. The vascular tissues of these primordia connected to those of the explant, and roots began to emerge from the base by day 10. Thus, direct rhizogenesis occurred with the IBA treatment, as opposed to the roots that were formed in the basal callus under the mixed-auxin regime.
23016613|Plant ovules provide zygotes with a physicochemical environment that supports embryo differentiation, growth, and maturation. The exact nature of this embryogenesis-enabling environment is not well characterized, as evidenced by failed attempts to induce normal embryony from zygotes or proembryos (precotyledonary) on defined media. To identify factors required for cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) zygotic embryony in vitro, we previously performed chemical and dissolved oxygen tension analyses of cotton ovule fluids and tissues at multiple stages of embryony in situ. Based on these analyses, we report herein the development of procedures that normalize embryo differentiation, growth, maturation, and germination in vitro, starting with proembryos. Our medium differed from Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium as follows (percentage of MS): N (30%, mostly from ten amino acids), P (815%), K (237%), Mg (85%), Ca (267%), S (506%), Fe (88%), and myoinositol (883%). Levels of other MS nutrients and vitamins, except sucrose, were kept at MS levels. Additionally, we included 100 mg L 1 casein hydrolysate plus the following (mmol L 1 ): D-glucose (1.8), fructose (4.7), sucrose (62.0), arabinose (7.1), melibiose (3.5), malic acid (11.6), and citric acid (3.8). Mannitol was added to achieve a medium osmotic potential of 1.10 MPa, and an atmospheric O 2 tension of 3.3 mol m 3 at the surface of embryos was maintained during culture. When cultured on medium containing 8.0 mol L 1 indole-3-acetic acid, 8090% of proembryos (as small as 100 cells) of cultivars HS-26 and B-27 increased four- to eightfold in surface area during the first 18 d in culture and germinated thereafter to produce viable plants. Increases in surface area of proembryos cultured on a modified MS medium previously used for somatic embryogenesis were from 0.2- to 0.6-fold. The described embryo culture medium should be useful for studying nutritional and molecular aspects of early embryony and possibly for plant zygote transformation protocols.
4293000|An in vitro shoot multiplication system was established from juvenile Fagus sylvatica L. tissues, and plantlets were regenerated. Embryonic axes were excised from beech seeds and germinated in vitro on media supplemented with 6-benzyladenine (BA) to obtain plantlets with axillary shoots. Shoot multiplication was maintained by sequential subculture of axillary shoot tips and basal segments on Woody Plant Medium supplemented with 0.5 mg/liter BA + 2 mg/liter zeatin + 0.2 mg/liter naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The efficiency of shoot multiplication clearly depended on the kind of explant used. Transfer to fresh medium every 2 wk during the 6-wk multiplication cycle improved multiplication rates. In the rooting stage, an initial 7-day dark period significantly improved rooting capacity and accelerated the emergence of roots on auxin-treated shoots. Adventitious buds were induced on the intact hypocotyls of the whole plantlets derived from the initial embryonic axis explants, especially on those cultured on medium with 1 mg/liter BA. Cotyledon and hypocotyl segments isolated from seedlings grown in vitro from embryos also exhibited capacity for adventitious bud formation, especially when cultured on media supplemented with 0.5 mg/liter BA + 0.1 mg/liter NAA.
20461656|This is the first report on somatic embryogenesis in common ash (Fraxinus excelsior L.). Experiments on somatic embryogenesis induction were carried out on zygotic embryos at different phases of development and maturation. The embryo axes were isolated and cultured on media containing different plant growth regulators (PGRs). Embryogenic tissues were obtained from embryos collected at an incomplete maturation phase and cultured on a modified Murashige and Skoog medium containing 8.8 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 4.4 M benzyl-adenine (BA). Embryos isolated from seeds at an advanced stage of maturation showed only organogenetic phenomena. Embryogenic tissues were successfully subcultured and multiplied on medium containing a reduced concentration of PGRs. After their isolation, somatic embryos were induced to develop and mature by transfer to PGR-free medium and subsequent culture on medium containing 0.1 M BA. Somatic embryos developed completely and also germinated spontaneously. Embryo germination and conversion were significantly improved when subjected to a period of storage at 4C and transplant onto woody plant medium. Plantlets were successfully transferred to soil and acclimatized in a "misted" greenhouse.
20064924|Seven suspension-cultured lines of five different species (Amaranthus powellii, Datura innoxia, Glycine max, Gossypium hirsutum, and Nicotiana tabacum  Nicotiana glutinosa fusion hybrid), which had been grown under photomixotrophic conditions, were placed under heterotrophic conditions (darkness and media with 3% sucrose or starch) where the chlorophyll levels declined to near zero. After three transfers over a 70-d period, the cells were placed back into photomixotrophic or photoautotrophic conditions where regreening occurred rapidly and continued growth was observed. This rapid adaptation to photosynthetic conditions contrasts with the original initiation process for these cultures, which required many months and an apparent selection since many of the original cells died. Thus, these seven photosynthetic cell suspension cultures appear to be different from the original cultures due possibly to genetic or adaptive changes.
4293896| An efficient rapid and large-scale in vitro clonal propagation of the valuable medicinal herb Eclipta alba (Asteraceae) by enhanced axillary shoot proliferation in cotyledonary node segments was designed. The medium type, various carbon sources, plant growth regulators, and coconut water markedly influenced in vitro propagation of Eclipta alba. An in vitro plantlet production system has been investigated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with the synergistic combination of benzyladenine (4.4 M), kinetin (4.6 M), 2-isopentenyladenine (4.9 M), gibberellic acid (1.4 M), 5% coconut water, and 3% sucrose which promoted the maximum number of shoots as well as beneficial shoot length. Subculturing of cotyledonary node segments on a similar medium enabled continuous production of healthy shoots with similar frequency. Rooting was highest (94.3%) on full strength MS medium containing 9.8 M indolebutyric acid. Micropropagated plants established in garden soil, farmyard soil, and sand (2:1:1) were uniform and identical to the donor plant with respect to growth characteristics as well as floral features. These plants grew normally without showing any morphological variation. 
29736193|In vitro shoot regeneration from sunflower cotyledonary explants can be obtained in the presence of kinetin and indole-3-acetic acid. In contrast, callus proliferation is obtained in the presence of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid on culture medium. The purpose of this study was to investigate changes in protein profiles during callus and shoot development from cotyledonary explants and to correlate them with ontogenic stages during in vitro culture. Cotyledons cultured in the presence of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid produced friable callus as a result of early division of parenchymatic cells associated with the vascular bundles of the explant. The callogenic ability was independent of the cotyledonary region used as starting explant. Direct shoot organogenesis was observed from the same type of cells growing in culture media supplemented with kinetin and indole-3-acetic acid. In this case, the regeneration potential varied among regions from which the explants were obtained. Protein profiles revealed differences associated with shoots or callus developmental programs. A 27-kDa polypeptide was uniquely detected in the explants undergoing shoot organogenesis. The amount of this polypeptide during the first 4 d of culture increased and was followed by the appearance of meristematic centers in histologically analyzed samples. This polypeptide could be used as a specific marker for in vitro shoot development in this species.
20461558|Direct shoot and cormlet regeneration from leaf explants were obtained in triploid dessert banana cultivar Nanjanagud Rasabale (NR) that is classified under the group 'Silk' and has the genotype AAB. The response for both cormlet and direct shoot formation was observed only in leaf explants obtained from shoots cultured in liquid medium but not in similar explants obtained from shoots grown on gelled medium. Shoot initiation occurred after a sequential culture of leaf (sheath) explants on modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with different growth regulators. In the sequence, the leaf explants were cultured first on medium with a high level (22.4 M) of benzyladenine (BA), second on indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) supplemented medium, and third on reduced BA medium under incubation in the dark. The highest adventitious shoot regeneration in 24% of the explants, with the number of shoots ranging from 2 to 3 per explant, occurred in the explants incubated at the first step in medium with 22.4 and 0.198 M IBA. Further growth and complete shoot formation occurred under incubation in a 16-h photoperiod. While keeping the culture conditions constant and replacing BA with picloram (0.83-20.71 M) in the initial step, adventitious origin of cormlets occurred in 12% of the explants. However, when rhizome explants (also obtained from shoots grown in liquid medium) were cultured with various growth regulators in the first step, medium containing 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (7.82 M) produced friable callus that re-differentiated into roots only. Physical forms of the medium, i.e. agar-gelled or liquid, imparted specific effects on the extent of multiplication of leaf-regenerated shoots with no differences in morphology and growth patterns when compared to those of meristem-derived plants.
20461721|Napin, a storage protein, has been reported to be transcribed abundantly during the pre-embryogenic stage and associated with the induction of Brassica napus secondary embryogenesis. In this study, we studied the distribution pattern of napin in the winter oilseed rape embryogenic tissue in comparison to that of the nonembryogenic tissue using the indirect immunofluorescence localisation coupled with the ultrastructural immunogold labelling techniques. Immunolocalisation studies revealed that the extracellular matrix layer outside the outer epidermal cell wall of B. napus embryogenic tissues contained napin. This is the first study to report the extracellular localisation of napin. In addition, we have also further characterised the expression pattern of Eg1 that encodes for napin in the B. napus embryogenic tissue.
20064951|Nodal cuttings (primary nodal explants) were used to initiate microcutting cultures of Hevea brasiliensis and Theobroma cacao. The physiological stage of growth reached by the branches from which the explants were taken had a considerable influence on culture initiation and response. In both species, the buds of the nodal explants taken from dormant branches (stages I1, I2 and I3 in Theobroma; stage D in Hevea) revealed greater opening ability in vitro and shoot elongation than buds taken from branches in a phase of active meristem growth in Theobroma (stages F1 and F2) or during a foliar growth phase in Hevea (stage C). In Hevea, the branch growth phase effect persisted into the multiplication phase when shoots developed in vitro were used as the source of secondary nodal explants. However, it disappeared during subcultures of primary nodal explants. In both species, the position of the nodes on the branch with respect to the apex also had an effect on culture initiation. The buds of nodes furthest from the apex were more likely to develop into shoots. In Hevea, the position of secondary nodal explants obtained from the primary shoot was seen to vary in effect depending on growth regulator applications during primary culture. These results are analyzed in terms of variations in the balance between endogenous growth promoters/inhibitors in the buds, depending on morphogenic stages and the bud position on the branch.
40663784|Shoot tips and nodes from a genotype of Cistus clusii were cultured on a medium containing Murashige and Skoog macronutrients, Nitsch and Nitsch micronutrients, sucrose, iron, thiamine, myoinositol, and agar. This establishment medium, enriched with growth regulators and the biocide substances Plant Preservative Mixture and Thiabendazole lactate, improved expiant survival by 14-16% and reduced contamination late in culture. For the proliferation stage, the expiants rapidly formed axillary buds on a culture medium containing 6-benzylaminopurine (0.5 mg 1;). The best response for rooting was obtained on a culture medium with a 0.1 mg 1; indolebutyric acid supplement. Rooted plantlets were acclimatized to greenhouse conditions and then transferred to the field in order to evaluate their phenotypic homogeneity. Karyotyping showed that the in vitro propagated plantlets have the same chromosome numbers as the mother plants. The success of this work indicates that micropropagation can be a useful tool for the conservation of clusii Dunal, an endangered plant in Italy.
20461573|St John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) is a valuable plant used as a herbal remedy or in phytopharmaceutical drugs to treat a variety of physical ailments. Much research has been performed to study the biochemical production of secondary metabolites of in vitro cultured plants or organs. However, all of these studies have looked at the regeneration of plants from explants in only one genotype. In addition, no study has revealed the mechanism of plant regeneration in H. perforatum, i.e. organogenesis or somatic embryogenesis. We found that different genotypes Helos, Topas, Elixir, and Numi responded similarly to regeneration medium. The regeneration responses (i.e callus, root, or shoot production) of identical explants from different genotypes were similar. However, the source of explant material (leaves, hypocotyls, and roots) from the same genotype had significant effects on the response to media and plant regeneration frequency. Using scanning electron microscopy and light microscopy, the progress of organogenesis and embryogenesis under similar culture conditions was recorded. Root segments were the most responsive explants, producing the maximum number of shoots per explant of all the genotypes.
4293432|Development of new selectable markers is needed to increase the efficiency and flexibility of plant transformation, and to overcome drawbacks sometimes associated with use of existing markers. A useful alternative to chemical-based selection systems would be a system using visual screening to obtain transgenic lines. Investigations were carried out to determine if the green fluorescent protein (gfp) gene could be utilized alone as a visual screenable marker to produce stably transformed, fertile oat plants. Twelve experiments were conducted in which gfp-based selection was utilized to obtain routinely stable transgenic lines in oat. A synthetic gfp gene under the control of the maize ubiquitin promoter was delivered into embryogenic oat callus via microprojectile bombardment. Cell clusters (1-3 mm) expressing gfp were visually identified using epifluorescence microscopy and physically isolated approximately 3 wk post-bombardment. Fertile, gfp-expressing T0 plants were regenerated from 78% of the glowing cell sectors placed on regeneration medium. T0 plants from 55% of the events produced gfp-expressing progeny in a 3:1 Mendelian ratio. Southern blot and PCR analysis confirmed transgene integration and transmission to progeny. Expression of gfp did not reduce plant growth or fertility. Transgene copy number and integration patterns were similar to those in transgenic plants derived from chemical-based selection systems. The mean transformation frequency, based on fertile events obtained per bombarded plate, was 1.8%. Over 180 independent transgenic oat lines were produced, to date, using only visual screening for expression of gfp, demonstrating efficiency and repeatability of the selection system.
20541007|An efficient system was developed for direct plant regeneration from in vitro-derived leaf explants of Pistacia vera L. cv. Siirt. The in vitro procedure involved four steps that included (1) induction of shoot initials from the regenerated mature leaf tissue, (2) regeneration and elongation of shoots from the shoot initials, (3) rooting of the shoots, and (4) acclimatization of the plantlets. The induction of shoot initials was achieved on an agarified Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with Gamborg vitamins supplemented in different concentrations of benzylaminopurine (BA) and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). The best medium for shoot induction was a MS medium with 1 mgl IAA and 2 mgl BA. Numerous shoot primordia developed within 2-3 wk on the leaf margin and the midrib region, without any callus phase. In the second step, the shoot clumps were separated from the leaf explants and transferred to a MS medium supplemented with 1 mgl BA, resulting in a differentiation of the shoot initials into well-developed shoots. The elongated shoots (&gt;3 cm long) were rooted on a full-strength MS basal medium supplemented with 2 mgl of indole-3-butyric acid in the third stage. Finally, the rooted plants were transferred to soil with an 80% success rate. This protocol was utilized for the in vitro clonal propagation of this important recalcitrant plant species.
4293684|The purpose of this study was to determine simply and accurately ploidy levels as estimated by changes in nuclear DNA content of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) plants regenerated from microspore-derived embryos. Using flow cytometry, the nuclear DNA content of green (83) and albino (222) plants derived using anther culture of 'Bobwhite' and 'Pavon 76', and of their reciprocal F
4293345|Transgenic head cabbage (Brassica oleracea var. capitata), resistant to diamondback moth (Plutella xylostella) larvae, was developed through Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation with Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) cry genes using a modified procedure. Factors important for transformation included cabbage cultivar; preculture and coculture of explants on a callus initiation medium; use of appropriate amount; and delay in initial application of selective agents. A total of 15 independent transformed lines with over 100 plants were obtained from several transformation experiments, representing an overall transformation efficiency of ~1%. Cabbage plants transformed with a synthetic Bt gene, cry1Ab3, were all resistant to larvae of the diamondback moth, whereas all plants transgenic for cry1Ia3, a wild-type Bt gene, were susceptible. As a first step towards testing the hypothesis that reduced exposure of Bt to target insects would delay the evolution of insect resistance to Bt, cry1Ab3 expression was put under the transcriptional control of the soybean wound-inducible vspB promoter and transgenic cabbage was obtained. Insect bioassay showed that such plants were all resistant to diamondback moth even without induction for the expression of Bt.
20064903|Shoot propagation of Persea indica (L.) K. Spreng was achieved using seedling axillary buds cultured on MS (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) medium with 1 mg/l (2.8 M) N-benzyladenine (BA). Forty percent of the obtained shoots did not elongate, but showed bud proliferation, which was maximal (three axillary buds per shoot) at the end of the seventh subculture. Sixty percent of the shoots elongated, did not show bud proliferation, and formed calluses at their base. Successful rooting (84.6%) was achieved dipping the base of each elongated shoot in 3 g/l (16.11 mM) indolebutyric acid (IBA) for 1-2 s, and transferring to half strength MS medium without growth regulators. These shoots presented an acclimatization success of 100%. Results suggest that micropropagated elongated shoots of P. indica can be adequately used in reforestation programs.
4293285|We studied how light from different light sources influences germination and postgerminative growth of plants from somatic embryos and seeds of Norway spruce (Picea abies [L.] Karst). Somatic embryos of three spruce genotypes and seeds were subjected to light from commercially available light sources: Philips TLD Blue 18W/18 (BL), Osram Fluora (FL), Philips Cool White TL 50W/33 (CW), Osram Warm White 18W/30 (WW), Philips Yellow 36W/16 (YE) and Philips TLD Red 36W/15 (RE), 18 h a day, with a photon flux (PAR) at
4293826|Transfer of genes from heterologous species provides the means of selectively introducing new traits into crop plants and expanding the gene pool beyond what has been available to traditional breeding systems. With the recent advances in genetic engineering of plants, it is now feasible to introduce into crop plants, genes that have previously been inaccessible to the conventional plant breeder, or which did not exist in the crop of interest. This holds a tremendous potential for the genetic enhancement of important food crops. However, the availability of efficient transformation methods to introduce foreign DNA can be a substantial barrier to the application of recombinant DNA methods in some crop plants. Despite significant advances over the past decades, development of efficient transformation methods can take many years of painstaking research. The major components for the development of transgenic plants include the development of reliable tissue culture regeneration systems, preparation of gene constructs and efficient transformation techniques for the introduction of genes into the crop plants, recovery and multiplication of transgenic plants, molecular and genetic characterization of transgenic plants for stable and efficient gene expression, transfer of genes to elite cultivars by conventional breeding methods if required, and the evaluation of transgenic plants for their effectiveness in alleviating the biotic and abiotic stresses without being an environmental biohazard. Amongst these, protocols for the introduction of genes, including the efficient regeneration of shoots in tissue cultures, and transformation methods can be major bottlenecks to the application of genetic transformation technology. Some of the key constraints in transformation procedures and possible solutions for safe development and deployment of transgenic plants for crop improvement are discussed.
41432437|Solarium chrysotrichum (Solanaceae) synthesizes a family of six antifungal spirostanol saponins designated as SC-1 to SC-6. The production of saponins by wild-type plants is variable depending on the environmental conditions. In order to develop an in vitro system for the sustained production of these saponins, transformed cell suspension cultures of S. chrysotrichum were established from nodal expiants of 3-mo-old plantlets by infecting with the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58/pBI12. From these cultures, kanamycin-resistant and phytohormone-independent cell suspension line C58 5.1.1 was obtained. PCR and Southern blot analyses were used to confirm the integration of the wild-type T-DNA into the plant genome. Batch cultures of the C58 5.1.1 cell line were grown in phytohormone-free MS liquid medium for 25 d. First-order growth kinetics and the production of the antifungal saponins (SC-2, SC-3, and SC-4) were determined by dry weight and quantified by HPLC, respectively, from the cells as well as the culture medium. Based on the cell biomass, the specific growth rate was 0.09 d and the yield of SC-2 reached 5.5% of dry weight, representing 40 times higher amount than that produced in plant leaves. SC-3 was recovered with a maximum yield of 0.9% of dry weight, whereas SC-4 was accumulated at 1.1% of dry weight. Saponins SC-2 and SC-3 were also excreted into the culture medium in low concentrations.
20541019|The present study demonstrates the establishment of embryogenic tissue from seeds and (seedling-derived hypocotyls) shoot base explants derived from seedlings of Eremochloa ophiuroides. The highest percentage of callus induction obtained from seed and young shoot base explants was 52.0% and 66.6% on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal media supplemented with 9.0 M and 18.1 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), respectively. The type of callus obtained from both types of explants was off-white to yellow in color and non-friable and shiny in texture. Excised callus from the explants was subcultured onto fresh media of the same recipe for further proliferation. After 10-12 d of subculture, a yellow, globular, friable embryogenic callus was obtained from the initial callus. The highest percentage of embryogenic calli obtained at 40.0% was observed on media containing 2.2 M 2,4-D. The highest regeneration rate of 46.6% was observed on MS media supplemented with 0.4 M 2,4-D and 2.2 M benzylaminopurine (BA). Regenerated shoots were rooted in MS basal medium. Plants with well-developed roots were transferred to pots containing a soil mix and acclimatized in greenhouse conditions. Four weeks post-transfer, acclimatized plants showed 100% survival and remained healthy and green. This is the first report of a successful method for induction of somatic embryogenesis with subsequent plant regeneration in centipede grass and demonstrates the establishment of embryogenic callus and efficient plant regeneration with potential application in the development of genetic transformation systems for centipede grass.
4293051| The morphogenetic response of various explants of seven different cultivars of a food legume, the pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan L.), has been studied. The stimulation and elongation of shoot buds into shoots derived from the mature embryo axis and intact seed on Murashige and Skoog's medium supplemented with 2.32 M kinetin and 22.2 M benzyladenine was found to be optimum in Murashige and Skoog's medium supplemented with 0.46 M kinetin, 0.53 M naphthalene acetic acid, and 0.29 M gibberellic acid. Even though the response of these two explants for formation of shoot buds in all the genotypes is 30-100% depending on media composition, subsequent growth and elongation of these shoot buds into plants is genotype dependent and is restricted to two genotypes. Cotyledon and epicotyl explants of pigeon pea cultivars on the other hand differentiated directly into four to eight and two to four shoots, respectively, depending on the media composition and genotype. In vitro rhizogenesis of regenerated shoots was 80% and the survival of these plantlets in the field was 70-80%. 
41318713|Differences were shown in the environmental conditions inside four types of non-ventilated culture vessels (glass babyfood jars capped with metal steel or Magenta B-caps, jam glass jars capped with metal steel caps, and Magenta GA7 culture vessels) that were incubated in the same external growth room conditions. Vessel light transmittance varied from 83% to 53% and determined the availability of photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) for expiants. The mean of medium desiccation in the culture period (30 d) was from 2.8 g in vessels with the lowest rate of gas exchange (0.02h) to 10.4 g in vessels with the highest (1.1 h).In all cases, the temperature inside the culture vessel increased during the light period and decreased during the dark period, and relative humidity was close to 100%. Results of in vitro growth and morphogenesis of Dianthus caryophyllus L. cvs. Scania, White Sim, Angeline, and Pink Calypso provided evidence that the environmental differences detected inside these four types of non-ventilated culture vessels was sufficient to affect micropropagation, mainly related with the specific sensitivity of each cultivar to the gas exchange and medium desiccation determined by the vessel type.
4293260| Adventitious shoots were induced on the proximal portion of leaves excised from Fagus orientalis shoot cultures derived from a 2-mo.-old or a 4-yr-old seedling. Up to 90% of the explants formed between 13 and 19 buds after culture on Woody Plant Medium containing 2.9 M indole-3-acetic acid and 4.5 M thidiazuron. Adventitious buds developed mostly on petiole stub callus, but also on the midvein. The histological events leading to shoot organogenesis were examined. Some shoots developed directly from subepidermis or epidermis, but most originated indirectly from cell file proliferation produced by periclinally dividing cells subadjacent to the epidermis. Some cells in the outermost layers of these files became meristematic and divided extensively, resulting in the formation of meristemoids after 16 d of culture. Dedifferentiation into meristematic cells, which exhibited a large, prominent nucleus, densely-stained cytoplasm, and a high nucleus-to-cell area ratio, was generally associated with anticlinal divisions in cells previously originated by periclinal division. Subepidermal cell proliferation occurred mainly in the abaxial surface of the explant, which initially formed a diffuse cambium and later evolved to a phellogenic cambium. Some meristemoids were also differentiated by lenticel phellogen. Organized cell divisions in meristemoids gave rise to bud primordia that emerged from the explant surface and differentiated a protoderm. The progressive structural differentiation of the apical meristem, leaf primordia, and procambial strands led, after about 28 d of culture, to shoots with vascular connections with treachery elements previously differentiated in adjacent tissues. 
20461567|A butenolide (3-methyl-2H-furo[2,3-c]pyran-2-one, the phyto-active compound isolated from smoke) was tested for its effect on somatic embryogenesis with an important species for commercial horticulture, Baloskion tetraphyllum. When somatic embryos of B. tetraphyllum were transferred to basal medium supplemented with butenolide, enhanced development of growth-competent somatic embryos was observed. This study demonstrates that butenolide exhibits promotive effects on both germination of seed (stimulation of zygotic embryos), and stimulation of development and maturation of somatic embryos with B. tetraphyllum, providing a potential new class of phyto-active compounds for in vitro culture.
20065031|Segments of male inflorescences of medicinal yam (Dioscorea floribunda) cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 13.94 M kinetin (Kn) resulted in the conversion of floral buds into vegetative buds and these later developed into plantlets. Growth and multiplication of shoots could be obtained by culturing individual shoots in MS modified basal medium, replacing the MS standard three vitamins with
20461543|We have investigated the interaction of Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus, a non-nodulating endophytic nitrogen-fixing bacterium isolated from the intercellular spaces of sugarcane, with Arabidopsis thaliana and the crop plants maize (Zea mays), rice (Oryza sativa), wheat (Triticum aestivum), oilseed rape (Brassica napus), tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum), and white clover (Trifolium repens). Using seedlings grown aseptically in sucrose-containing culture media, we have shown that inoculation with very low numbers of G. diazotrophicus results in extensive intracellular colonization of root meristems and progressive systemic intracellular root colonization. Light microscopic examination of thin sections of resin-embedded root tips of Arabidopsis and these crop plants inoculated with -glucuronidase (GUS)-labeled and with NifH promoter--GUS-labeled G. diazotrophicus showed blue-stained G. diazotrophicus within the cytoplasm of root cells, indicating that intracellular conditions were suitable for nitrogenase gene expression. Electron microscopy confirmed that these blue-stained intracellular G. diazotrophicus were within membrane-bounded vesicles. We discuss whether these novel inoculations with G. diazotrophicus are likely to enable non-nodular endosymbiotic nitrogen fixation and whether these inoculations can also provide a plant system to investigate the endosymbiotic theory of the origin of eukaryotic organelles.
20461720|The rooting capacity of microshoots derived from two mature Eucalyptus urophylla X Eucalyptus grandis half-sib clones kept for 3 y under intensive micropropagation was assessed in different in vitro conditions. A first set of experiments established that clone 147 microshoots rooted earlier and in greater proportions, while producing more adventitious roots overall than their homologs from clone 149. Modifying the composition of the basal 1/2-MS-derived rooting medium by 1/4-MS or Knop macronutrients, or reducing sucrose concentration to 10 g l did not enhance the rooting rates. However, together with the growth regulators added, they had a significant effect on the number of adventitious roots formed. With rooting rates reaching 81%, the higher rootability of clone 147 over clone 149 was further confirmed by the second set of experiments with significant effects of the various auxins tested and strong clone  auxin interactions on the proportions of rooted microshoots and on the number of adventitious roots. The best rooting scores were given by 5 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and 12.5 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), whereas the microshoots exposed to 5 or 12.5 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) were less responsive. Lower light intensities did not improve significantly root capacities, although differences might exist according to the genotype. Overall, root and shoot elongation was stimulated by light. At the end of the experiment, the rooted microshoots were markedly taller than the non-rooted ones, with significant influences of auxins and light intensity, and to a lesser extent, of the genotypes.
23254896|A protocol was developed to induce and identify imazapyr tolerance in sugarcane, which involved induction of somaclonal variation via exposure to 8 or 16 mM ethyl methanesulfonate for 4 h, followed by a stepwise increase in imazapyr concentration in the medium from 0.08 to 0.16 M. The regenerated plantlets were then acclimatized for 3 mo after which they were sprayed with 182 ga.i.ha -1 imazapyr, and the above-ground biomass was determined after 47 d. Following a 1-mo waiting period for the putative tolerant plants to regrow, acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS; EC 2.2.1.6) enzyme assays of the plants that survived and showed a normal growth pattern were undertaken. Based on the enzymatic I 50 values, three imazapyr-tolerant genotypes were identified with an AHAS activity of 2.8 to 4.0 times that in sensitive sugarcane plants.
4293109|Rapid micropropagation of Saussurea lappa C.B. Clarke, an endangered medicinal plant endemic in the valley of Kashmir and western Himalayas of northern India, was achieved by culturing shoot tips (0.5-1 cm) of 2-wk-old seedlings on Murashige and Skoog's medium (MS) supplemented with thidiazuron (TDZ,
4293897|In vitro propagation systems by means of areole activation were developed for Turbinicarpus laui, T. lophophoroides, T. pseudopectinatus, T. schmiedickeanus subsp. flaviflorus, T. schmiedickeanus subsp. klinkerianus, T. schmiedickeanus subsp. schmiedickeanus, T. subterraneus, and T. valdezianus. In vitro-germinated seedlings were used as a primary source of explants. Multiple shoot formation from areoles was achieved for three explant types (apical, lateral, and transverse), cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with 3% sucrose,
4293037|The responses of two lisianthus (Eustoma grandiflorum) inbred lines and their heterotic (in vivo) F
20461563|The influence of partial substitution of agar by galactomannans (GMs) in culture media was studied in pear (Pyrus communis L. cv. 'Durondeau') micropropagation. GMs, extracted from seeds of Cassia fastuosa (cassia) or Cyamopsis tetragonolobus (guar gum, a commercial GM), were mixed in equal proportions with agar to a final concentration of 0.3% (w/v) for each type of gelling agent. The production of multiple shoots and the formation of roots from shoots were compared with the control solidified with agar alone at a concentration of 0.6% (w/v). In the media solidified with the mixtures of agar/guar and agar/cassia GMs, an increase of 32 and 17%, respectively, was obtained in the number of regenerated shoots. The modified media promoted a higher number of roots and increased the rooting percentage. A maximum of 91% rooting was obtained in the medium solidified with the agar/cassia GM and containing 9.80 M indole-3-butyric acid. Less callus formation at the base of the shoot was also observed on this medium. The improved in vitro performance of shoot formation and rooting, combined with a significantly lower cost, suggests a potential use of agar/GM gels in plant tissue culture.
4293452|Cultures of two cranberry (Vaccinium macrocarpon Ait.) cultivars, 'Ben Lear' and 'Pilgrim', and three cranberry clones from natural stands in Newfoundland were established in a nutrient medium containing
20171631| Different ecotypes of reed (Phragmites communis Trinius) provide an ideal resource for studies on plant environmental adaptations and presence of genes relating to stress resistance. Dune reed is a drought-tolerant reed ecotype growing in the desert regions of north-west China. In this work, in vitro culture systems of dune reed and local swamp reed (as control) were established by optimizing the culture conditions for each of them. Bright yellow calluses were induced on a Murashige and Skoog medium containing 4.5 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 5.4 M naphthaleneacetic acid and 2.2 M benzyladenine. Benzyladenine promoted callus induction, but was not required for callus maintenance. Four types of callus have been identified from each of the reed ecotypes. Two types of callus, i.e. type A (formed normal green shoots) and type C (formed albino plants), were both found as embryogenic calluses. The optimal concentrations of 2,4-D to maintain embryogenic callus were 2.3-4.5 M for dune reed and 9.0-13.5 M for swamp reed. Plant regeneration was achieved from types A and C callus in a hormone-free medium. The embryogenic calluses of swamp reed have been maintained for over 2 yr and still retain their strong embryogenic potential; however, those of dune reed gradually lost their embryogenic potential after only 7 mo. of culture. Regenerated plants from the two reed ecotypes showed, after a growth season, similar morphology and the same chromosome number (2n = 8x = 96, octoploid) as the wild plants. 
4293496|A protocol for in vitro propagation of Rollinia mucosa, an important medicinal plant, was developed. The presence of
20461741|This study describes in vitro shoot induction and plant regeneration from a mature apical meristem and nodal explants of the endangered medicinal shrub Vitex agnuscastus. Multiple shoots were induced directly from the axis of nodal and apical meristem explants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 3% sucrose and different concentrations (1.0, 1.5, 2.0, and 2.5 mg/l) of 6-benzyl aminopurine (BAP) in combination with Kinetin (Kin) and -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA), both at 0.1 mg/l. BAP and Kinetin were used as supplements to MS basal medium, either individually or in combination with auxins. The optimal concentration of BAP for inducing bud break was found to be 2.0 mg/l when Kinetin was at 0.1 mg/l. Regeneration frequency was highest for both apical meristem and nodal explants (94.5% and 90.3%, respectively) when explants were cultured on MS medium supplemented with BAP (2.0 mg/l) and Kin (0.1 mg/l). A maximum of 7.70.4 and 6.70.2 shoots were obtained per explant for apical meristem and nodal explants, respectively. Regenerated shoots, transferred to MS medium supplemented with either 1.0 or 1.5 mg/l BAP combined with 0.1 mg/l GA, showed maximum elongation of 6.70.4 and 6.01.3 cm in apical meristem and nodal explants, respectively. In vitro regenerated shoots transferred to half-strength MS medium supplemented with 0.1 mg/l IBA induced 90.4% of the shoots to form roots after 30-35 d of culture. Up to 80% of the regenerated shoots were successfully established in soil in the greenhouse.
41318706|Maturation of Abies numidica De Lann. somatic embryos was tested on media with abscisic acid and various maltose and polyethylene glycol-4000 concentrations. The effect of basal medium and subculture period on maturation was also examined. The maturation of somatic embryos was promoted by polyethylene glycol-4000, at 7.5-10%. Three to 6% maltose significantly enhanced the yield of mature embryos. The most effective somatic embryo maturation occurred when embryognie tissue was transferred to maturation medium after 14-21 d cultivation on proliferation medium. The ability for A. numidica cultures to form cotyledonary somatic embryos was assessed over a period of 3 yr. Plantlets germinated on half-strength SH (Schenk and Hildebrandt) medium with charcoal and survived transfer to the soil.
42568811|An efficient protocol has been devised for the propagation and field establishment of Eulophia cullenii (Wight) Bl., a terrestrial orchid having ornamental potentialities, and is critically endangered in Western Ghats, India. Seeds extracted from 60-90-d-old capsules germinated in  A MS,  MS, Knudson C, or Mitra liquid medium developed into 1.4-2.5-mm-diameter protocorms in 60 d. Supplementation of organic additives like coconut water, peptone, yeast extract, and casein acid hydrolysate (CH) significantly enhanced protocorm growth. Upon subculture onto agargelled Mitra medium fortified with 0.05% CH, 56% of protocorms regenerated into shoots through the formation of linear mini-rhizomes. The regenerated shoots grew vigorously in  MS, producing new rhizomes. Mature rhizomes from axenic seedlings produced maximum (13  1.4) shoots/whole rhizome in  MS fortified with 44.4 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP), in 120-150 d. Horizontal and longitudinal halves of the rhizome also gave multiple shoots (6-8.5) in the presence of 44.4 M BAP. Shoots or shoot clumps sub-cultured onto  MS basal medium produced roots followed by rhizomes in 60-150 d. Seedlings with mature rhizomes showed 70% establishment in the nursery and added a new rhizome at the end of one growth cycle. An average of 70.6% of the rhizomes originating from seedlings during the second growth cycle sprouted to produce new shoots, when planted in the native localities. Asymbiotic germination and cloning through rhizomes thus can provide a large number of vigorous plants of E. cullenii for ornamental exploitation as well as eco-restoration, if rhizome as storage organ is ensured in the propagule.
23016615|We previously reported a partial agricultural and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) characterization of two new pineapple somaclones (P3R5 and Dwarf) derived from in vitro culture of the donor cv. Red Spanish Pinar. Both somaclonal variants showed different AFLP banding patterns compared to the donor cultivar, although they were separated by less than 0.09 U of genetic distance. The present report shows data of various indicators of morphology and physiology of P3R5 and Dwarf D leaves. The stoma diameter, number of stomata per square millimiter, diameter of leaf vascular tissue, thickness of the leaf aquiferous parenchyma, and thickness of the leaf photosynthetic parenchyma were measured. The photosynthetic rate, the transpiration rate, the water use efficiency, the internal leaf CO 2 concentration, and the chlorophyll pigment contents were recorded as well. Between the somaclonal variant P3R5 and the donor genotype, statistically significant differences were recorded in all indicators with the exception of the stoma diameter and the photosynthetic rate. Comparing the somaclonal variant Dwarf and the cv. Red Spanish Pinar (donor), statistically significant differences were also recorded in all parameters except in the stoma diameter and in the transpiration rate. This investigation was performed to demonstrate that small changes in the pineapple DNA may result in relevant phenotypic modifications.
23016699|Embelia ribes, an important vulnerable medicinal liana, was regenerated through organogenesis and embryogenesis using leaf explants. Leaf explants produced organogenic calluses on MS medium supplemented with 1.0 mg 1 -1 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4-D) and 0.5 mg 1 -1 6-benzylaminopurine. Shoot regeneration was obtained from organogenic calluses on MS medium containing different concentrations of thidiazuron (TDZ) and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). The frequency of shoot bud organogenesis was highest (23.9 shoots/explant) in MS medium containing 0.5 mg 1 -1 TDZ and 0.1 mg 1 -1 IAA. The best result for induction of embryogenic callus was noticed in the combination of 2.0 mg 1 -1 TDZ and 0.5 mg 1 -1 2,4-D. This callus, maintained in the same medium, showed the highest differentiation of embryos (56.5%) after 6 wk of culture. Embryos were transferred to MS medium supplemented with different concentrations of TDZ, and this facilitated conversion of embryos into plants. After 6 wk of subculture, MS medium with 0.05 mg 1 -1 TDZ favored the highest percentage (52.2%) embryo conversion. As per the present protocol, 52.2% of the embryos underwent conversion, and a mean number of 29.5 shoots per culture was obtained. Shoots developed from both types of calluses were rooted on half-strength MS basal medium supplemented with 1.0 mg 1 -1 indole-3-butyric acid. HPLC-UV assay demonstrated the highest embelin content (5.33% w/w) in the embryogenic callus cultures. Embelin was isolated from embryogenic callus and was identified using IR and 1 H NMR studies.
4293924|This paper considers public attitudes toward genetically modified plants in the fields or those soon to be planted. Analyzing a regional public opinion survey of 680 respondents in Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana, New Mexico, and Oklahoma carried out in the Spring-Summer of 2004, we look at the importance of public attitudes toward the three generations of agricultural biotechnology in light of the changing regulatory environment. Specifically, we ask questions concerning the first generation of plants with agronomic qualities, comparing our findings with previous studies, then look at perceptions of the second generation of crops with product quality characteristics, and the third generation, which expresses industrial products and pharmaceutical drugs. We look at perceived benefits, the likelihood, that these plants might accidentally enter the food supply, the likelihood that these plants might be eaten by the respondent, as well as how worried and angry the respondent would be as a result. Findings suggest that the public is still largely unaware of food biotechnology and genetically modified food products in their life. When compared with the first and second generation agricultural biotechnology products, survey respondents indicated that third generation products are not only likely to provide greater benefits, but are also potentially the source of more worry and anger if accidentally eaten.
40981335|Agrobacterium-mediaied transformation of Carrizo citrange [Citrus sinensis (L.) Osbeck  Poncirus trifoliata (L.) Raf.] with a binary vector containing a novel bifunctional reporter-selection fusion gene comprising an inframe fusion between the manA gene and egfp gene is detailed. This system combined the phosphomannose isomerase positive selection system with the ability to monitor gene expression in a non-destructive manner using EGFP. Transgenic plants stably expressing the EGFP protein were regenerated following Agrobacterium-medmted transformation using a vector containing this fusion gene. We also obtained comparable transformation efficiencies when Carrizo explants were transformed using another Agrobacterium strain containing a binary vector with a bifunctional egfp-nptll fusion gene. Regenerating shoots were selected on medium containing 15 g L mannose supplemented with 5 g L sucrose for the nptII-based selection or on medium containing 100 mg L kanamycin for the -based selection. Our results indicated that the mannose-based antibiotic-free selection combined with visual identification of transgenic shoots using EGFP allows for early elimination of escape non-transgenic shoots and can provide a viable alternative to antibiotic-based selection systems in the genetic transformation of citrus and other crops.
4293812| Indirect somatic embryogenesis, encapsulation, and plant regeneration was achieved with the rare rhoeophytic woody medicinal plant Rotula aquatica Lour. (Boraginaceae). Friable callus developed from leaf and internode explants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 0.45 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) was most effective for the induction of somatic embryos. Subculture of the callus onto half-strength MS medium with the same concentration of 2,4-D resulted in highly embryogenic callus. Suspension culture was superior to solid medium culture for somatic embryogenesis. Embryogenic callus during subsequent transfer to suspension cultures of half-strength MS medium having 0.23 M 2,4-D induced the highest number of somatic embryos (a mean of 25.6 embryos per 100 mg callus) and the embryos were grown up to the torpedo stage. Transfer of embryos to half-strength MS basal solid medium allowed development of 50% of the embryos to the cotyledonary stage. Of the cotyledonary embryos, 90% underwent conversion to plantlets on the same medium. Encapsulated cotyledonary embryos exhibited 100% conversion to plantlets. Ninety-five percent of the plantlets established in field conditions survived, and were morphologically identical to the mother plant. 
4293733|This article reviews techniques for gene identification and cloning in allohexaploid bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). Gene identification and cloning in wheat are complicated by the large size and high redundancy of the genome. Both classical mutagenesis and transposon tagging are important tools for the study of grain dormancy and plant hormone signaling in wheat. While classical mutagenesis can be used to identify wheat mutants with altered hormone sensitivity, it can be difficult to clone the corresponding genes. We review the techniques available for gene identification in wheat, and propose that transposon-based activation tagging will be an important tool for wheat genetics.
23321155|A simple and efficient micropropagation method was established for direct protocorm-like body (PLB) formation and plant regeneration from flower stalk internodes of a sympodial orchid, Epidendrum radicans. Small transparent tissues formed on surfaces and cut ends of flower stalk internodes on a modified half-strength Murashige and Skoog basal medium with or without thidiazuron (TDZ) after 12 wk of culture. In the light, the transparent tissues enlarged and turned into organized calluses on most of the explants. However, PLBs formed only on a medium supplemented with 0.45 M TDZ within 2 mo. of culture. Sucrose, NH4NO3, and KNO3 were used in media to test their effects on PLB proliferation and shooting. The best response on number of PLBs per tube was 23.6 at 40 gl-1 sucrose, 825 mgl-1 NH4NO3, and 950 mgl-1 KNO3, and the highest number of PLBs with shoots was found at 10 gl-1 sucrose, 825 mgl-1 NH4NO3, and 950 mgl-1 KNO3. Homogenized PLB tissues produced by blending were used to test the effects of four cytokinins [TDZ, N6-benzyladenine (BA), zeatin-riboside, and kinetin] on PLB proliferation and shoot formation. The best responses on number of PLBs per tube, proliferation rate, and number of PLBs with shoots per tube were obtained at 4.44 M BA, 0.28 M zeatin-riboside, and 1.39 M kinetin, respectively. Normal plantlets converted from PLBs on the same TDZ-containing medium after 1 mo. of culture. The optimized procedure required about 1213 wk from the initiation of PLBs to plantlet formation. The regenerated plants grew well with an almost 100% survival rate when acclimatized in a greenhouse.
4293278|The aim of this research was to isolate protoplasts from in vitro-grown quince BA 29 leaves. Effects of various concentrations of cellulase and pectinase and different incubation periods were evaluated. The most effective treatment included (per ml) 50 units cellulase and 10 units pectinase, in the incubation medium and incubation for 21 h at 50 rpm in the dark at
4293668|The composition of the gaseous environment within tissue culture vessels is a critical factor in determining in vitro plant growth and morphogenic responsiveness. Consequently, the provision of an adequate and sustainable oxygen supply for cultured plant cells (including isolated protoplasts), tissues and organs is a crucial prerequisite for optimization and regulation of such cultural responses. During the past decade, research has focused on improving growth and development using artificial gas carriers based on inert perfluorocarbon (PFC) liquids and hemoglobin (Hb) solution. Supplementation of culture media with such artificial oxygen carriers has demonstrated beneficial effects of increased and sustainable cellular mitotic division and subsequent biomass production in a diverse range of plant species, during both short- and longer-term culture. Studies have targeted systems where oxygen availability is actually or potentially a major growth-limiting factor. Undoubtedly, gas carrier-facilitated improvements in regulating the supply of respiratory gases to cultured cells, tissues and organs will have increasingly important biotechnological and practical implications in the context of plant micropropagation, somatic hybridization, transgenic plant production, and secondary product biosynthesis.
4293247|Five distinct steps can be recognized in the establishment of a plant in a commercial micropropagation system, especially if the most utilized approach (shoot culture) is the focus. Failure at any one step can make the total system commercially unworkable. When one considers a plant without extensive previous history of microculture, the first step involves an analysis of the potential market (economic reality) as well as the plant's general growth habit (biological reality). For the latter, the general growth habit of the plant can provide valuable predictive information as to the potential ease of microculture. For example, plants showing indeterminant herbaceous growth (e.g., Chrysanthemum, Solarium, Dieffenbachia) or continuous woody seasonal growth (e.g., Betula, Ulmus, Thuja) are generally much more amenable to microculture than those that are determinant herbaceous (e.g., Panix, Paeonia) or episodic woody organisms (e.g., Quercus, Pinus). At times, an episodic habitat can be overcome in microculture (Syringa, Rhododendron). The next four steps involve the actual manipulation and microculture of the plant and include the initiation, stabilization, optimization, and production phases. The most intensive analytical step is usually the optimization phase in which plant growth regulator response curves, replication, repetition through multiple subcultures, and evaluation of productivity and product quality are involved. The intent of this discussion is to help develop a decision tool to be used as a first approach to designing a potential new micropropagation system for an untested plant genotype.
4293886|Capsicum regeneration is often obtained through direct (adventitious) regeneration and only a few reports claim indirect regeneration (through callus) as an option to obtain complete plants. A possible reason for this may be because Capsicum cultures offer a narrow window in time for the regeneration process to occur, and after that, the ability to regenerate plants rapidly diminishes. In this study, the C. baccatum radicle-side half-seed was the explant of choice to induce the formation of callus on semisolid Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium supplemented with
20064990|One of the first Azorean endemic vascular taxa chosen for the development of in vitro multiplication techniques was Hypericum foliosum Aiton, due to its colonizing ability (Sjgren, 1984), a loss of seed germination capacity after only 1 yr of storage (Maciel, 1994), and the populations' generally low number of individuals. The following culture media were tested using Hypericum foliosum's single node cuttings: Murashige and Skoog (1962), Roest and Bockelmman (1973), Lloyd and McCown (1980), Crte and Mendona (1985), and Cellrov et al. (1992). Further experiments were performed on CM medium supplemented with four different growth regulators: -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), N-benzyladenine (BA), ,-(dimethylallyl) aminopurine (2iP), and kinetin (KIN). The acclimatization stage was carried out in Jiffy 7 pots and in a 2:1 or 1:1 peat/perlite mixture. We found that micropropagation of Hypericum foliosum is possible on CM medium and that the best results with growth regulators were achieved with the following supplements: 0.1 mg/l (0.4 M) BA and 0.5 mg/l (2.6 M) NAA + 1.0 mg/l (4.4 M) BA (in the initiation stage), and 0.1 mg/l (0.4 M) BA (in the elongation stage). As for culture multiplication, 0.1 mg/l (0.4 M) BA (in the initiation stage) and 0.5 mg/l (2.6 M) NAA + 1.0 mg/l (4.4 M) BA (both in the initiation and elongation stages), proved to be the most efficient concentrations. The acclimatization stage was successfully performed in Jiffy 7 pellets.
42568821|Eucalypts are highly regarded plantation trees due to their fast growing nature, high water consumption, tolerance to abiotic stresses, and ease of conversion to pulp and paper. We screened five genotypes of Eucalyptus camaldulensis (T5, BD4, 1-7-1, H1, and SH4) and three genotypes of the E. camaldulensis  Eucalyptus urophylla hybrid (H4, 58H2, and 27A2) for salt tolerance. Fresh weight and leaf area in hybrid genotypes (H4, 58H2, and 27A2) were greater than those in the E. camaldulensis population after plantlets were subjected to 200 mM NaCl for 14 d. The chlorophyll a content in hybrid genotypes decreased by 19.71-37.11% compared to 51.45-66.00% decline in E. camaldulensis. Similarly, total chlorophyll content was retained at a high level in the hybrid population, leading to stabilization of the net photosynthetic rate. The amount of proline, an osmolyte, was significantly increased in all Eucalyptus genotypes when exposed to 200 mM NaCl. Multivariate analyses of proline accumulation, photosynthetic pigment degradation, diminishing chlorophyll fluorescence, P n reduction, and growth inhibition in saltstressed plantlets of Eucalyptus genotypes were performed to classify salt-tolerant-and salt-sensitive groupings. The hybrid eucalypt genotypes H4, 58H2, and 27A2 were identified as salt tolerant while the selection genotypes of E. camaldulensis, T5, BD4, 1-7-1, HI, and SH4, were classified as salt susceptible.
29736162|Micropropagation via enhanced axillary shoot proliferation was investigated in the ornamental Eucalyptus cv. 'Urrbrae Gem' using in vitro germinated seedlings and was successfully achieved using woody plant medium (WPM) supplemented with 2.2 M benzylaminopurine, 1.0 M -naphthaleneacetic acid, and 1.5 M gibberellic acid (GA), gelled with 5 gl Phytagel. Shoot proliferation was greater on WPM and QL media with GA compared to B5, AP, and TK media with or without GA. GA was required for shoot elongation as the internodes were otherwise very short and unsuitable for multiplication or root initiation. Root initiation was improved using (1/2)WPM supplemented with 20 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) over a 7 d pulse, followed by subculture to IBA-free medium, compared to placing shoots on low levels of IBA for 4-6 wk. Plantlets were successfully hardened off to the natural environment via a fogger at 67% relative humidity at 21C for 3 d and continued to thrive as potted plants. This is the first report of successful micropropagation in an ornamental eucalypt (subgenus Symphyomyrtus) from seedling explants.
20064887|Plantlet regeneration of salgareo pine (Pinus nigra Arn. ssp. salzmannii (Dunal) Franco) was achieved from cotyledons. The data showed that the best differentiation response occurred when cotyledons, from 1-d-old embryos germinated in darkness, were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium (half-strength macroelements) with 22 M N-benzyladenine (BA) and 0.05 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) for 2-3 wk. Shoot development was obtained by subculturing treated explants on the same medium without growth regulators. Shoots were successfully micropropagated by sequential subculturing them on medium containing growth regulators (5 M BA and 0.005 M NAA) and on hormone-free medium for 2 and 12 wk, respectively. To induce adventitious roots, shoots were treated with 3 M NAA and 8 M indole-3-butyric acid for 2 wk, followed by transfer to Murashige and Skoog medium (-strength macroelements,
4293331|Embryogenesis is a phase of development that has been understudied at the molecular level, especially in conifers. Somatic embryogenesis, the asexual propagation of embryos, provides insights into development and has major applications in the forestry industry. Loblolly pine is the most important commercial species in the United States; however, it is recalcitrant to somatic embryogenesis methods. An appreciation of gene expression and the development of 'expression markers' would allow us to follow conifer embryogenesis more closely and to gain some insight into the metabolic states of zygotic and somatic embryos. We have employed the techniques of differential display to identify genes whose mRNA abundance changes over the course of development. We have isolated around 500 cDNAs and propose the establishment of a database of transcript levels in somatic and zygotic pine embryos over the course of development using cDNA arrays. Approximately one-third of our cDNAs have similarity to sequences in the Genbank. Our intention is to gain insight into cell physiology and biochemistry by identifying inducible transcripts. This information will form the basis of testable hypotheses regarding manipulation of embryo development in tissue culture. Experiments deriving from transcript profiling will provide insight into development. The 'expression markers' will allow a classification system more closely tied to metabolic state and the integration of these data into ongoing physiological research will lead to improved protocols for somatic embryogenesis.
4293533|In vitro plantlets of Phalaenopsis 'Happy Valentine', Neofinetia falcate Hu, Cymbidium kanran Makino, and Cymbidium goeringii Reichb. f. were grown under photoautotrophic [high photosynthetic photon flux (PPF), high CO
20064843|Endogenous and exogenous volatile substances were analyzed during 30 days' incubation of four cultivars of the Prunus avium species grown in vitro on a proliferation medium. Cultivars Bigarreau Moreau and Bigarreau Burlat show photosynthetic capability at
20461681|Plantlet regeneration in Prosopis laevigata (Humb. & Bonpl. ex Willd.) Johnston (Fabaceae), a multipurpose tree, has been achieved from cotyledonary nodes excised from in vitro grown seedlings. The explants were cultured on MS media containing different concentrations of N-6 benzyladenine (BA) and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and a mixture of organic components. The highest number (3.37+0.51) of multiple shoots was observed in MS media containing 2,4-D (9.05 M)+BA (6.62 M). The regenerated shoots were then transferred onto half-strength MS medium containing a plant growth regulator that was either: indole-3-butyric acid, 1-naphthaleneacetic, indole-3-acetic acid, or 2,4-D as well as phytagel or vermiculite for adventitious root initiation. Best rooting efficiency of 44.0% was obtained when NAA (16.11 M) and vermiculite were used. After rooting, the cloned plantlets were successfully hardened to ex vitro conditions. This work may help to reduce the devastation caused by the overexploitation of this species.
4293484| Construction and operation of a device to measure gel rigidity is described. A commercially available force gauge capable of recording peak force measurements of up to 200  0.1 g is mounted on an easily constructed device consisting of a frame with a motor which moves a platform supporting a Petri plate up or down at a controlled speed. The force gauge probe pierces the gel in the Petri plate, at which time the peak force is recorded to give an estimate of gel hardness. Using both agar and gelrite, an example of the use of the device is given. Tests on a series of different calcium concentrations in gels of varied strengths demonstrate that the patterns of gel hardness differ. Finally, the rigidities of three typical media (half-strength Litvay, DCR, and Murashige and Skoog) on both gel types are compared. 
20065010|This paper reviews some of the recent research on micropropagation of mature larch (Larix) trees. Different methods are reported concerning the use of the organogenic and embryogenic potential of adult plant material. Successful plant regeneration of adult larch trees by combining tissue culture methods is presented. The growth behavior of regenerated plants was compared with seedlings. Special attention was focused on preconditioning of donor material. Possible basic principles, responsible for a successful propagation of adult donor trees, are discussed.
4293738|In vitro regeneration of plants via somatic embryogenesis through cell suspension culture was achieved in horsegram. Embryogenic calluses were induced on leaf segments on solid Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with
4293412|The carbohydrate status of developing seeds of Picea abies was examined in order to provide a frame of reference for the evaluation of changes in carbohydrate content in maturing somatic embryos of the same species. Samples were taken at weekly intervals from 12 May 1998 (estimated time of pollination) until 20 October 1998. The total non-structural carbohydrate content was high (
41432838|Marigold (Tagetes erecta) flowers are primarily used in industry for their high pigment content. Flower color development implies that chloroplast-chromoplast transition is associated with carotenoid biosynthesis. We report the recovery of undifferentiated pigmented marigold cells, various callus tissues, and their analysis by transmission electron microscopy in order to observe accumulating pigment and development of subcellular structures. Callus was generated from leaf expiants and after several rounds of recurrent selection. Green-, yellow-, and brown-colored callus were obtained that showed distinct carotenoid profiles. For green material, violaxanthin, lutein, zeaxanthin, and -carotene were produced, while yellow callus generated mainly lutein, as did the brown callus. Chloroplastchromoplast transition was followed by measuring plastid size and shape in undifferentiated marigold cells by digital image analysis. Cellular alterations were evident in brown callus.Chloroplasts were the main structure in green callus, while yellow callus clearly showed the formation of plastoglobules, structures that are correlated with chloroplast-chromoplast transition. The high number of plastoglobules observed in yellow callus is possibly directly related to pigment synthesis and accumulation.
4293348| An efficient plant regeneration protocol was successfully developed for basil (Ocimum basilicum L.). Explants from 1 mo. old seedlings yielded the highest frequency of 85% regeneration with an average of 5.1 shoots per explant. The regeneration protocol was performed on three basil varieties (Sweet Dani; methylcinnamate; Green Purple Ruffles). Callus and shoot induction was initiated on Murashige and Skoog basal medium supplemented with thidiazuron (16.8 M) for approximately 30 d. Shoot induction and development were achieved by refreshing the induction medium after 14 d. The most morphogenetically responsive explants were from the first fully expanded true leaves of greenhouse-grown basil seedlings. All developing bud tissue demonstrated temporary anthocyanin expression; however, anthocyanin expression in Green Purple Ruffles remained stable until maturity. Developing shoots were rooted in the dark on media with thidiazuron removed. Within 20 d, rooted plantlets were transferred and acclimatized under greenhouse conditions where they developed normal morphological characteristics. This is the first report of a successful in vitro regeneration system for basil through primary callus. 
4293892| A protocol has been developed for high-frequency shoot regeneration and plant establishment of Tylophora indica from petiole-derived callus. Optimal callus was developed from petiole explants on Murashige and Skoog basal medium supplemented with 10 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid +2.5 M thidiazuron (TDZ). Adventitious shoot induction was achieved from the surface of the callus after transferring onto shoot induction medium. The highest rate (90%) of shoot multiplication was achieved on MS medium containing 2.5 M TDZ. Individual elongated shoots were rooted best on half-strength MS medium containing 0.5 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). When the basal cut ends of the in vitro-regenerated shoots were dipped in 150 M IBA for 30 min followed by transplantation in plastic pots containing sterile vermiculite, a mean of 4.1 roots per shoot developed. The in vitro-raised plantlets with well-developed shoot and roots were successfully established in earthen pots containing garden soil and grown in a greenhouse with 100% survival. Four months after transfer to pots, the performance of in vitro-propagated plants of T. indica was evaluated on the basis of selected physiological parameters and compared with ex vitro plants of the same age. 
20065028|An efficient and rapid in vitro method was developed for regeneration of Phalaenopsis using leaf segments derived in vitro from flower stalk nodes. Leaf segments of four cultivars Tinny Sunshine 'Annie', 'Taisuco Hatarot', Teipei Gold 'Golden Star', Tinny Galaxy 'Annie' cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with N-benzyladenine (BA; 88.8 M) and -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA; 5.4 M) produced an average of 10-13 protocorm-like bodies (PLBs) after 12 wk. PLB proliferation was achieved on a modified Hyponex medium (
4293848| Germination of tamarind seeds in medium containing thidiazuron (TDZ) resulted in induction of nodular protrusions in and around the cotyledonary node meristem. The structures developed radially in well-defined circles and subsequently spread towards the cotyledonary bridge and also in the proximal part of the hypocotyl. The structures developed into shoots on transfer to medium devoid of growth regulators. Histological studies revealed that the protrusions initiated from the nodal meristem and extended to the non-meristematic region between the two meristems and also in the proximal part of the hypocotyl in seedlings germinated in 9.08 M TDZ. Newly formed cell layers and less-differentiated meristematic protrusions were also seen. With the increase in the distance from the meristem, the buds were less differentiated; in the proximal part of the hypocotyl only the multiple layers of meristematic cells were noted. With extension of the period of incubation, the TDZ-induced meristematic activity extended laterally in circles towards the neighboring region. The radial spread of the meristematic activity from the center of the nodal meristem was also evident at 18.16 M TDZ. From the pattern of the morphogenic development and the histological studies it may be hypothesized that in tamarind, TDZ influences the existing meristems specifically. Subsequently de novo organogenesis is triggered in the neighboring cells. 
20541055|Hyperhydricity is a physiological disorder frequently affecting shoots propagated in vitro. Since it negatively affects shoot multiplication vigor, and impedes the successful transfer of micropropagated plants to in vivo conditions, hyperhydricity is a major problem in plant tissue culture. In commercial plant micropropagation, there are reports of up to 60% of cultured shoots or plantlets which demonstrate hyperhydricity, which reflects the pervasiveness of this problem. The phenomenon has been correlated to water availability, microelements, and/or hormonal imbalance in the tissue culture. In this study, the ultrastructure and the characteristics of reactive oxygen species between hyperhydric and normal shoots of garlic were studied. We observed that in some cells of hyperhydric tissues, the intranuclear inclusion was separated, the mitochondrion was swollen and its intracristae had splits, the organelles were compressed against the cell wall, and the chloroplasts and intergranal thylakoids were also compressed. Additionally, the content of chlorophyll and soluble protein in hyperhydric shoots decreased significantly. For instance, chlorophyll a decreased 43.61%, chlorophyll b decreased 49.29%, chlorophyll a+b decreased 48.10%, and soluble protein dropped 47.36%. In contrast, the O generation rate and HO level increased 45.36% and 63.98%, respectively, obviously higher than the normal shoots. Lipoxygenase activity and malondialdehyde content in the hyperhydric shoots increased significantly, while the electrolyte leakage rose, indicating a serious membrane lipid peroxidatic reaction. Superoxide dismutase, peroxidase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and ascorbate peroxidase activities in hyperhydric tissue were all significantly higher than in normal leaf tissue. The antioxidant metabolism demostrated a close connection between hyperhydricity and reactivated oxygen species.
4293319|Cytokinins are essential hormones for plant growth and development. They are also of vital importance for in vitro manipulations of plant cells and tissues. The biological activities and chemistry of cytokinins are well defined but very little is known about their mode of action and it is only recently that cytokinin genes have been identified in plants. This review summarizes the current status of knowledge on cytokinin biosynthesis, metabolism and signal transduction, with an emphasis on genes encoding metabolic enzymes and putative receptors, and genes rapidly induced by cytokinins.
20064864|Habituation is one of the four neoplastic diseases of plants and occurs spontaneously in plant cell cultures. To date, and even if an epigenetic origin has been previously postulated, the fundamental concept that underlies this neoplastic state remains obscure. Recently, a permanent stress hypothesis has been proposed, using habituated nonorganogenic (HNO) sugarbeet cell line (Beta vulgaris L. altissima) as a model. According to this proposal, the low catalase and peroxidase activities were supposed to be responsible for HO accumulation. A supposed lipoxygenase activation would generate
4293740|Despite high commercial interest, the success of biotechnological applications in cotton (Gossypium hirsutum) has been limited due to difficulties in genetic transformation. Major problems have been genotype dependence and low frequency of somatic embryogenesis, making it difficult to regenerate plants from transgenic tissue. This study reports an increase in somatic embryogenesis efficiency and the induction of developmental synchrony in embryogenic callus cultures of cotton by a single cycle of myo-inositol depletion in liquid culture. Calluses were initiated on hypocotyl or cotyledon explants of cultivar Coker 312 by culturing these explants on callus-inducing solid medium [Murashige and Skoog salts plus vitamins of Gamborg's B
20461594|This study reports a method for high-frequency shoot organogenesis and plant establishment of Potentilla potaninii Wolf. Hypocotyl and cotyledon explants of P. potaninii were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with various concentrations of benzyladenine (BA) and -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) to induce adventitious shoot formation for micropropagation. The highest frequency of adventitious shoot regeneration was achieved from hypocotyl and cotyledon explants grown on MS medium supplemented with 5.0 mg l BA and 1.0 mg l NAA. The regenerated shoots rooted most efficiently on half-strength MS medium supplemented with 1.0 mg l NAA and 0.5 mg l indole-3-acetic acid or indole-3-butyric acid. The acclimatized plants with normal morphology and growth characters flowered and set seeds in the following year.
40663779|Conditions for induction of embryognie nodules and subsequent somatic embryogenesis in the tropical hardwood Cedrela odorata are described. Embryo expiants from ungerminated mature seeds were placed on Driver and Kuniyuki Walnut (DKW) medium using 0.8% w/v agar as the gelling agent, plus benzyladenine (BA) and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Various phytohormone combinations were tested, from which 5 M BA + 50 M 2,4-D were chosen as the standard regime based on a maximum frequency of embryognie nodule occurrence of 20-25% on this medium. Nodules, when excised from the cotyledons and placed on growth-regulator-free medium, produced both plantlets and secondary embryognie tissue. With extended culture on growth-regulator-free DKW medium, plantlets developed roots and could be transplanted into pots for further growth. The frequency of nodule initiation could be improved by either orienting the cotyledon expiants with their lower (abaxial) surface in contact with the medium or imposing a pre-excision period of heat shock. The treatments together were additive. An optimum heat-shock temperature (47  C) and range of exposure times (8-12 h) were defined.
20461697|A procedure for the micropropagation of Chimonanthus praecox (L) Link, wintersweet, has been developed using buds from adult trees excised in spring. Shoot cultures established on Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium supplemented with 0.5 mg l 6-benzyladenine (BAP) and 0.1 mg l indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) were difficult to maintain in vitro through extended periods of time due to browning of the medium, shoot and leaf necrosis, and hyperhydricity. A treatment combining the use of 0.1% w/v activated charcoal and addition of a double phase agar-solidified/liquid medium improved propagation, enabling a successful in vitro propagation scheme to be developed. Optimal shoot multiplication occurred on medium containing 0.5 mg l BAP, and rooting on medium with 2.0 mg l IBA for 7 d, followed by transfer to hormone-free medium. Rooted plantlets were easily acclimated in a glasshouse and replanted and cultured outdoors.
20064841|Nodes of Medicago sativa, Lotus corniculatus, Lotus tenuis, and Lotus pedunculatus were cultured on MS basal media with different growth regulators. In M. sativa each node produced one shoot and the apical dominance was unaffected by high levels of cytokinins, and subsequent cycles of culture. Shoot development was stimulated by the presence of N-isopentenyl-adenine in the culture medium and was dependent on the genotype of the explant. Shoot development was not affected by the original position of the node on the plant nor by the plant age. Shoots rooted in MS medium gelled with starch and containing
20461539|Bactris major and Desmoncus orthacanthos are native palms from the Yucatan Peninsula which could be used as substitutes for rattan. When their seeds were germinated in vivo and in vitro they proved to be highly recalcitrant. Therefore, the culture of isolated embryos was studied as an alternative means of producing planting material for nurseries. It was found that the in vitro germination of the isolated embryos was gradually reduced by storage, falling to zero by 5 wk. However, isolated embryos from freshly collected seeds germinated at  100% frequency. The presence of the endosperm, whether still attached to the embryos or separated from them but in direct contact with the nutrient medium, greatly reduced germination in both species. High concentrations of abscisic acid (ABA, 100 M) only slightly diminished it, suggesting a different cause for the observed endosperm-induced inhibition. This embryo rescue method permits the production of sufficient plants for in vitro micropropagation and the establishment of experimental plots to evaluate the full potential of these materials.
20171615| The insecticidal effectiveness of a -endotoxin Cry protein from Bacillus thuringiensis in non-regenerable callus of a commercial Gossypium hirsutum L. variety was investigated. Two transgenic callus types were generated. The first callus type harbored the cry1A(c) gene and the hygromycin B phosphotransferase hpt selectable marker gene. The second callus type, the transgenic control, carried the marker genes -glucuronidase (GUS) and hpt. Growth and survival rates of three major cotton moth species, Pectinophora gossypiella, Helicoverpa armigera, and Spodoptera littoralis, were examined with aseptic neonates reared on callus. Normal larval development occurred in all species supplied with non-transgenic callus, but insects died, or their growth was severely restricted, when reared on transgenic callus harvested from hygromycin B-supplemented medium. Development of larvae on transgenic control and on non-transgenic callus became very much alike after the transgenic control tissue had been subcultured on a hygromycin B-free medium for about 100 d prior to the insect-callus bioassay. Accordingly, for detection of Bt toxin activity without the interference of the influence of hygromycin B on insects, cry1A(c) callus was infested with insects after it had been propagated for more than 100 d on a medium free of the antibiotic. Under these experimental conditions all P. gossypiella and H. armigera, and most S. littoralis neonates died, and the growth (e.g., weight increment) of S. littoralis survivors was markedly impeded by cry1A(c) callus. Three new findings emerge from this study: first, P. gossypiella, a pest feeding in the field on bolls only, can be grown in vitro on cotton callus; second, in a host which is recalcitrant in terms of plant regeneration, the biological potency of an insect-detrimental transgene can nevertheless be evaluated by generating a transgenic host callus and conducting in vitro transgenic callus-insect assays; and third, our results suggest that hygromycin B is toxic to lepidopteran larvae. 
20064936|Plants were obtained via organogenesis from hypocotyl explants of Pithecellobium saman (Jacq.) Benth. (raintree) on Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium supplemented with N-benzyladenine (BA). Adventitious bud induction was affected by mineral salts and benzyladenine concentrations, explant age, position of explant on the medium, and BA exposure time. The best results were obtained with explants cultured on half-strength MS medium containing 26.6 M BA, with explants of 5 and 10 d after germination placed horizontally and a 7 d-exposure period to BA. The proximal and intermediate section of hypocotyls showed the highest organogenic response. Bud development and shoot elongation was promoted by increased concentrations of activated charcoal in the culture medium. Gibberellic acid had no effect on shoot development. Rooting percentages decreased when shoots were exposed for more than 24 h to indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). Maximum rooting was obtained with 369.0 M IBA. The aerial and root systems of greenhouse plantlets were similar to those of seedlings.
4292944|This research was designed to: a) characterize the normal pH changes that occur when cotton cell are grown in culture; b) determine if cotton cells can regulate the pH of their extracellular medium; and c) explore the effects of starting pH on cellular differentiation in culture, including formation of somatic embryos. When an aliquot of cotton cell suspension culture (Gossypium hirsutum L. cv Coker 312) was inoculated into fresh Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium at pH 4.5, the pH stabilized near 5.5 during the log phase of growth and then rose to pH 7.25. Cotton cells actively adjust medium with initial pH between 3 and 8 to near pH 5.5 in the early culture period. By acid/base titration, it has been shown that living cotton cells increase the buffer capacity of water and MS medium. Therefore, the metabolic activity of living cells accounts for the adjustment and stabilization of pH during the log phase of growth. The starting pH of the culture medium affects longterm viability, growth, and differentiation of the cells; pH 3 to 5 is best for cell viability, pH 3 to 4 enhances cell elongation; and pH 4, 7, or 8 stimulates somatic embryogenesis. Cultured cotton cells and the pH of their extracellular medium are in a complex, interactive relationship.
4293644|Axillary and terminal buds from suckers of Ananas comosus cv. Phuket were established on Murashige and Tucker-based (MT) medium with
29736199|In vitro rooting of oil palm shoots derived from somatic embryos was achieved through a single-phase protocol in which three shoots are cultured in the same culture tube on an -naphtaleacetic acid-enriched culture medium. Rooting performance was dependent on both the genetic origin and initial size of the shoot explants. All shoots from a given tube showed a tendency to give roots of the same type, independent of the original size of the explant. Whatever the clonal line, longer-size shoots (L-type: >9 cm) showed higher rooting rates than medium-size (M-type: 7-9 cm) and short-size ones (S-type: 5-7 cm). When groups of three shoots from the same clonal line were rooted together in the same culture tube, the combination of plant size within the group impacted overall quality of rooting. Within triplets of shoots containing more than one short individual, the probability of obtaining adequate rooting was low. Similarly, when more than one long shoot was included in the triplet rooting, quality was also poor. By avoiding such combinations, the rate of well-rooted plantlets increased by 25%, with a maximum of 66% when triplets of S/M/L combination were used. Smaller shoots, which usually showed poor rooting performance, were therefore found to benefit from the presence of their neighbors. This interaction between the sizes of individuals in a given tube was found to be associated with a within-tube correlation effect, a phenomenon previously described as "event coupling," which was estimated using a distorted binomial-type distribution of probabilities. The resulting calculation of a coupling factor (average r=0.60) explains the behavior of shoots within the same culture tube and their average rooting performance. Modeling of the interactions that occurred during in vitro rooting is described here and is recommended for improvement of this critical step in micropropagation.
4293123| Transgenic spinach (Spinacia oleracea L.) plants expressing cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) coat protein genes were regenerated. Leaf and hypocotyl expiants from two spinach cultivars, 'Fall Green' and 'High Pack,' were transformed with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA 4404 carrying the binary vector pBI121 in which the -glucuronidase (GUS) gene was replaced with the coat protein gene of CMV isolate SP103 or SP104. Calluses were induced from both cultivars at rates of 10-27% on MS selective medium containing 86 M kanamycin, 237 M carbenicillin and 209 M cefotaxime. After 12 wk (three transfers), putatively transformed calluses were transferred to MS medium without kanamycin to promote callus proliferation. Shoots were regenerated at the rates of 23-29% for 'High Pack' and less than 0.5% for 'Fall Green'. Approximately 80% of the regenerated shoots from both cultivars were subsequently induced to establish whole plants. Regenerated plants were screened for transgene incorporation using a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method using the same primer pair originally used to amplify the CMV coat protein genes for insertion into pBI121. Based on the PCR screening, approximately 12% of the regenerated spinach plants contained a CMV coat protein gene. Southern blot analysis confirmed the presence of viral coat protein genes in the plant genomes. Western blot analysis indicated that the CMV coat protein genes were expressed in transgenic spinach plants. 
20064989|The purpose of this study was to develop in vitro techniques for conserving wild and endemic species of Ceropegia by mass multiplication for subsequent reintroduction in their natural habitat. Micropropagation involving a combination of axillary bud culture, shoot multiplication, somatic embryogenesis and in vitro tuber formation for Ceropegia jainii, a rare plant of the Indian sub continent, C. bulbosa var. bulbosa and C. bulbosa var. lushii, common species, was developed. Nodal explants from all species were cultured on 0.5 MS medium with 8.8 M (
20461688|Epicotyl, petiole, and cotyledon explants derived from 14-d-old seedlings of Albizia odoratissima were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with different concentrations of either 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP) solely or in combination with 0.5 M naphthalene-3-acetic acid (NAA). The percentage of shoot regeneration and the number of shoots regenerated varied significantly depending on the type of explants used, the concentration of plant growth regulators, and the orientation of explants on the culture medium. The best response in terms of the percentage of shoot regeneration was obtained from epicotyls cultured horizontally on MS medium supplemented with 5 M BAP, whereas the highest number of shoots per responding explant was recorded on medium containing 2.5 M BAP and 0.5 M NAA. Successful rooting was achieved by placing the microshoots onto MS medium containing 25 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) for 24 h first, then transferring to the same medium without IBA. Of the various substrates tested, vermiculite was the best for plant acclimatization, as 75% of the plants survived and became established.
23255670|Torreya taxifolia Arn., an ancient evergreen tree, is on the brink of extinction from attack by a fungal disease, recently reported to be caused by a novel isolate of Fusarium. We report the development of a somatic embryogenesis tissue culture system that can be used for cryogenic storage of T. taxifolia cultures and subsequent plant regeneration. Initiation of embryogenic tissue from immature zygotic embryos occurred on a conifer tissue culture medium containing 0.25 % activated charcoal, 43.8 mM maltose, 0.5 mM 2,4-dichlorophenoxacetic acid, 0.2 mM 6-benzylaminopurine, 0.2 mM kinetin, 0.1 M brassinolide, 3.8 M abscisic acid, 20.5 M biotin, 1.13 M folic acid, 1.28 mM 2(n-morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid and 0.69 mM pyruvic acid. Embryo induction ranged from 60 to 100 % across six seed sources. Somatic embryo development occurred on a medium containing 43.8 mM maltose, 1 % activated charcoal, 37.8 M abscisic acid, 20.5 M biotin, 0.1 M brassinolide, 0.205 mM folic acid, 1.28 mM 2(n-morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid and 0.69 mM pyruvic acid. Germination of somatic embryos ranged from 64 to 82 %. Embryogenic tissue cultures from 30 genotypes representing seed from six mother trees were cryopreserved, and culture recovery was demonstrated after freezing. In contrast to many other coniferous tree seeds, the measured water potential (MPa) of T. taxifolia megagametophyte tissue rose greatly during seed after-ripening. Duplication of this rise in vitro allowed development of somatic embryos to the cotyledonary stage.
40793226|The effects of culture conditions on the asymbiotic germination of mature seeds of Calanthe tricarinata Lindl., an endangered terrestrial cool-climate orchid, were examined. Specifically, conditions such as illumination, temperature, and the addition of plant growth regulators to the medium were studied. Mature seeds were harvested from plants that had been collected in Toyama Prefecture, Japan, and maintained at the Botanic Gardens of Toyama. Solidified "New Dogashima" medium was used as the basal medium, and it was supplemented with 6-benzyladenopurine (BA) or -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA). White light at 40mol m s , with a 16-h photoperiod, inhibited the germination of seeds by 53-80%, as compared to dark controls in genotypes examined. The optimal temperature for the germination of seeds in darkness was 20 C and the germination frequency reached 60%, whereas it was only 28% at 25 C. While both NAA and BA stimulated germination, BA was more effective than NAA. After storage for 18 mo at 5 C, seeds incubated on medium that contained 0.2 mg 1 BA germinated at a frequency of 36%, which was twice that of seeds grown without any plant growth regulators. The frequency of subsequent germination decreased during storage of seeds at 5 C for approximately 2 yr, dropping from 61% to 13%. The protocorms obtained in this study were developed to plantlets readily after transferring to fresh 1/2 MS medium without any plant growth regulators. They were successfully acclimatized in green house after two to three subcultures in vitro. The significant role of a reproducible protocol for the germination of mature seeds is discussed in terms of the ex situ conservation of endangered orchid species.
29736195|Wheat and triticale plants were transformed by bombardment of isolated scutella with a genetic construct consisting of the two anthocyanin biosynthesis regulatory genes, C1 and Bperu, each under the control of the Ltp1 embryo-specific promoter. Transgenic plants were obtained in the absence of selective pressure and selectable marker gene at a transformation frequency of 0.93% and 1.55% in triticale and wheat, respectively. Initial screening of T lines was performed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and further confirmation of PCR positives was done using real-time PCR and by phenotypic observation. In this study, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) was developed to determine the transgene copy number in transgenic wheat and triticale. A conserved wheat housekeeping gene, puroindoline-b, was used as an internal control to calculate the transgene copy number in wheat and the SYBR green detection method with a standard curve, constructed on the basis of serially diluted plasmid, was used to calculate the transgene copy in triticale. Estimated transgene copies varied from 3 to 8 in wheat and 4 to 7 in triticale lines. The presence of anthocyanin regulatory genes, promoter, and termination sequences was detected in six wheat lines and four triticale lines. However, anthocyanin-pigmented embryos were only observed visually in mature T seeds of two transgenic wheat lines and a single triticale line. Multisite insertion and reorganization of transgenes was likely the explanation for the failure of expression for the anthocyanin genes in the remaining wheat and triticale transgenic lines.
4293286| Experiments were conducted to study the influence of osmotic pretreatment and inoculum (callus) age on the initiation and induction of somatic embryogenesis from suspension cultures of 'Alamo' switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.). Embryogenic 10-, 20-, or 30-d-old calluses (hereafter referred to as inocula), produced from in vitro-cultured inflorescences, were used as explants to initiate the suspensions. Inocula were cultured for 30 h on MS solid medium containing 0.1, 0.2 or 0.3 M each of sorbitol and mannitol as an osmotic pretreatment. They were then transferred to liquid MS medium with 5 M 6-benzylaminopurine and 9 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and cultured for 28 d in 2-ml Multiwell plates. Individual multiwell contents were transferred to 125-ml Erlenmeyer flasks containing 20 ml of the above liquid medium and cultured for an additional 2 wk. Cultures initiated from the 10-d-old inoculum produced a higher embryogenic response than those initiated from 20- or 30-d-old inocula. Cultures initiated with 30-d-old inocula produced nonembryogenic clusters and the number of embryogenie cells was low. More embryos and a higher regeneration frequency were produced by 0.3 M than by 0.1 or 0.2 M of each of the osmostica. 
20461566|Shoot cultures of three Hibiscus moscheutos (L.) cultivars were infested with micro-arthropods (mites). Nodal segments (1 cm long) were excised from these cultures and encapsulated in a sodium alginate gelled Driver and Kuniyuki Walnut DKW medium containing 10, 50, or 100 mg l acephate (insecticide) or 10 mg l acephate plus 0, 50, or 100 mg l benomyl (fungicide), then placed in refrigerated (5C) darkness for 4 wk. Acephate was tested alone if visible fungus was not touching the shoot masses and benomyl was tested if fungus was in contact with the proliferating shoots. Cold-stored encapsulated nodes were then placed on DKW medium with 0.1 M thidiazuron for 6 wk for subsequent shoot development. The presence of acephate in the encapsulation medium completely eradicated or killed the mites, with 38-69% of cultures fungus-free; 12% of the fungal-contaminated nodes encapsulated with 100 mg l benomyl were fungus-free.
20461618|Cynara cardunculus var. cardunculus L., also known as cardoon, is a perennial weed naturalized in the Pampas region of Argentina. A quantification of cynarine and chlorogenic acid of callus and leaves from cardoon was performed by means of micellar electrokinetic capillary chromatography, showing that the content of cynarine is higher in calluses than in vivo leaves. The scavenging effect of the callus extract, determined by the thiobarbituric acid method, demonstrated its significant antioxidant capacity. The obtained results revealed that in vitro tissue culture is an excellent tool for producing cynarine for therapeutical purposes.
4293309|The influence of light quality on the proliferation of embryogenic tissue of three genotypes of Norway spruce (Picea abies [L.] Karst), with different capacities for mature somatic embryo production, was studied. The proliferating tissues were subjected to light from commercially available light sources: Philips TLD Warm White 36W/29, Philips TLD Blue 18W/18, Philips TLD Red 36W/15, Osram L Fluora 36W/77 and Sylvania Far Red 7080, for 18 h a day with the photon flux (PAR) at
4293239|In this study different aspects of the in vitro introduction and establishment of apricot cultivars were investigated through meristem tip culture. The best time to introduce the meristems of 'Canino' was when buds were starting to swell. Various plant growth regulators were used at different concentrations on four distinct apricot cultivars to promote the development of the meristems to shoots which could then be micropropagated. Very diverse results were obtained depending on the genotype. In general, meristems did not survive without
4293873|The problem of environmental nitrogen enrichment is most likely to be solved by reducing the inputs of synthetic nitrogen fertilizers through the creation of cereals that, like legumes, are able to fix nitrogen. In legumes, rhizobia present intracellularly in vesicles in the cytoplasm of nodule cells fix nitrogen endosymbiotically. Rhizobia within these membrane-bounded compartments are supplied with energy from plant photosynthates and, in return, the bacteria provide the plant with biologically fixed nitrogen. Recently, we have demonstrated, using novel inoculation conditions with very low numbers of bacteria, that cells of the root meristems of maize, rice, wheat, and other major non-legume crops can be colonized intracellularly by the non-rhizobial, non-nodulating, nitrogen-fixing bacterium, Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus, that occurs naturally in sugarcane. G. diazotrophicus expressing nitrogen-fixing genes is present in membrane-bounded compartments in the cytoplasm of cells of the root meristems of the target cereals and non-legume species, similar to the intracellular colonization of legume root nodule cells by rhizobia. In order to obtain an indication of the likelihood of adequate growth and yield of maize, for example, with reduced inputs of synthetic nitrogen fertilizers, we are determining the extent to which nitrogen fixation is correlated with systemic intracellular colonization by G. diazotrophicus, with minimal or zero inputs of synthetic nitrogen fertilizer.
4293818| Plants of European chestnut (Castanea sativa) have been consistently recovered from cryopreserved in vitro-grown shoot apices by using the vitrification procedure. Factors found to influence the success of cryopreservation include the source of the shoot tips (terminal buds or axillary buds), their size, the duration of exposure to the cryoprotectant solution, and the composition of the post-cryostorage recovery medium. The most efficient protocol for shoot regrowth employed 0.5-1.0 mm shoot tips isolated from 1 cm-long terminal buds that had been excised from 3-5-wk shoot cultures and cold hardened at 4C for 2wk. The isolated shoot tips were precultured for 2d at 4C on solidified Gresshoff and Doy medium (GD) supplemented with 0.2 M sucrose, and were then treated for 20 min at room temperature with a loading solution (2 M glycerol + 0.4 M sucrose) and for 120 min at 0C with a modified PVS2 solution before rapid immersion in liquid nitrogen (LN). After 1 d in LN, rapid rewarming and unloading in 1.2 M sucrose solution for 20 min, the shoot tips were plated on recovery medium consisting of GD supplemented with 2.2 M benzyladenine, 2.9 M 3-indoleacetic acid, and 0.9 M zeatin. This protocol achieved 38-54% shoot recovery rates among five chestnut clones (three of juvenile origin and two of mature origin), and in all cases plant regeneration was also obtained. 
20171619|Vessel closure configurations exert direct and indirect control over factors pertaining to the physical boundaries of the microenvironment, and induce a typical phenotype in in vitro plant production. Upon modification of the in vitro environment, carnation explants showed a gradation of their ultrastructural characteristics from hyperhydric to normal. A higher degree of development was observed in plants from vessels with higher ventilation compared to ones from vessels with low ventilation rates. The cell walls of epidermal cells from both normal and hyperhydric plants grown in non-ventilated vessels were less developed than those from plants grown in ventilated vessels. Cytoplasm of normal plants was dense and generally located in parietal areas. The cytoplasm was even more dense in plants grown in ventilated vessels and acclimated. The degree of thylakoid stacking and distribution were affected by ventilation conditions, being poorly developed with low ventilation. Ultrastructurally, stomata from in vitro plants are ready to carry out their task, although there are significant differences in guard cell size and vacuolar area between acclimated and in vitro plants.
20461590|This study reports an efficient and direct shoot bud differentiation and multiple shoot induction from nodal segments of underground stoloniferous rhizomes of Houttuynia cordata Thunb. The frequency of shoot bud regeneration was influenced by the type of cytokinin and concentrations. Among the various concentrations used, benzylaminopurine (BAP, 17.74 M) or kinetin (Kn, 18.58 M) was found to be most effective for rapid and maximum shoot bud differentiation. The number of shoots per explant was higher (20.00  2.61) on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with Kn (18.58 M) compared to BAP and 6-,-(dimethyl-allylamino)-purine (2iP) during initial 40-d-old culture. Subsequent shoot differentiation and multiplication were achieved in MS medium containing 9.29 M Kn and 15% (v/v) coconut milk. Elongation and growth of multiple shoots were also obtained on MS medium containing either 2.32 M Kn or 2.46 M 2iP alone. The rate of shoot multiplication during subcultures declined with an increase in the size of proliferating shoot cluster. Reducing shoot cluster size to three to four shoots and subculturing together in shoot multiplication medium resulted in a better shoot multiplication and growth, which could be maintained for 2 yr. The elongated shoots (&gt;20 mm) were successfully rooted on MS medium supplemented with 19.60 M indole-3-butyric acid. Regenerated plants were successfully established in soil and were found to be healthy and uniform. The protocol reported in this study can be used for conservation and utilization of elite clone of H. cordata.
4293152|A plant regeneration system applicable to 17 cowpea genotypes was developed. Cotyledons were initiated on 1/3 MS medium containing 15 to 35 mg
4293490|Border cells from Artemisia annua were examined from hairy roots grown in shake flasks, culture plates, a bubble column reactor, and a nutrient mist (aeroponic) reactor. When well-hydrated roots were subjected to shear, border cells were first released as an agglomerate and did not disperse for several hours. Staining with neutral red and fluorescein diacetate (FDA) showed that both agglomerates and dispersed cells were alive. It was determined that FDA is cleaved by pectin methylesterase (PME) and that PME may not be particularly active in the released agglomerates until the border cells disperse. Untransformed roots isolated from A. annua plants showed no border cell agglomerate formation and border cells readily dispersed. These results suggest that our hairy root clone is deficient in border cell release perhaps resulting from the transformation process.
40793154|Efficient Agrobacterium tumefaciens -mediated transformation and a higher recovery of transformed plants of cucumber cv. Poinsett 76 were achieved via direct organognesis from cotyledon expiants. Stable transformants were obtained by inoculating expiants with A. tumefaciens strains EHA105 or LBA4404, both harboring the binary vector pME508, which contains the neomycin phosphotransferase II (nptII) and phosphinothricin resistance genes (bar) conferring resistance to kanamycin and PPT, respectively, as selectable markers and the sgfp-tyg gene for the green fluorescent protem (GFP) as a visual marker driven by the constitutive CaMV35S promoter in the presence of acetosyringone (50 M). Transformed shoots were obtained on MS Murashige and Skoog (Plant Physiol. 15: 473-497, 1962) medium supplemented with 1 mg L benzyladenine (BA), 20 mg L L-glutamine and 2 mg L phosphinothricin (PPT) or 100 mg L kanamyein. The regenerated shoots were examined in vivo using a hand-held long wave UV lamp for GFP expression. The GFP screening helped identify escapes and chimeric shoots at regular intervals to increase the growth of transformed shoots on cotyledon expiants. Elongation and rooting of putative transformants were achieved on PPT (2 mg L) containing MS media with 0.5 mg L gibberellic acid (GA) and 0.6 mg L indole butyric acid (IBA), respectively. PCR and Southern analyses confirmed the integration of the sgfp gene into the genome of T and the progenies. T segregation of transgenic progeny exhibited Mendelian inheritance of the transgene. The use of EHA105 resulted in 21% transformation efficiency compared to 8.5% when LBA4404 was used. This higher rate was greatly facilitated by PPT selection coupled with effective screening of transformants for GFP expression, thus making the protocol highly useful for the recovery of a higher number of transgenic cucumber plants.
4293240|Micropropagated strawberry plants (Fragaria x ananassa L.) grown on 5  M and
4293077| The endangered Phebalium equestre D. A. Cooke and the rare Phebalium hillebrandii J. H. Willis were propagated in vitro using shoot tips and nodal segments as explants. For each species, shoot proliferation was initiated on de Fossard MZZM (Medium levels of minerals, Zero auxins, Zero cytokinins and Medium levels of sucrose, growth factors, and amino acids) medium supplemented with 1 M benzyladenine. Excised P. equestre shoots initiated roots when cultured on MZZM medium containing 60 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, while P. hillebrandii shoots required LZZL (Low levels of minerals, Zero auxins, Zero cytokinins and Low levels of sucrose, growth factors, and amino acids) medium containing 10 M 2,4-D for maximal root initiation. Both species required transfer to MZZM medium without growth regulators after 2 wk to allow root initials to develop and grow. Plantlets were successfully transferred to soil with 80% survival after 2 mo. 
4293287| An efficient regeneration system was developed by culturing immature cotyledons and embryo axes of Arachis hypogaea L. cv. Georgia Green on Murashige and Skoog basal medium (MS) supplemented with various concentrations of thidiazuron (TDZ; 1, 5, 10, and 15 M). Highly morphogenic callus was produced from 100% of the explants comprising the cotyledon with attached embryo axis when cultured in the dark on 10 M TDZ. Upon excision and continued culture in the dark on 10 M TDZ, morphogenic callus grew repetitively during monthly subcultures and retained its regeneration potential. For organogenesis, a gradual reduction in TDZ concentration and exposure to light were necessary before transfer to MS basal medium. Inclusion of indole-3-butyric acid in liquid MS medium favored rooting of recovered shoots. A distinct feature of this investigation is the induction of highly morphogenic callus by TDZ and regeneration of morphologically normal, fertile peanut plants after 8 months of callus subculture. 
20461695|The role of cytokinins in the differentiation of the photosynthetic apparatus in micropropagated plants and their effect on the plant's ability to transition from a heterotrophic to an autotrophic condition during acclimatization was investigated. Annona glabra L. shoots were cultured on woody plant medium supplemented with sucrose and different cytokinins to evaluate leaf tissue for chloroplast development, chloroplast numbers, photosynthetic pigmentation, total photosynthetic potential, and soluble sugar content. Plants were transferred to the rooting medium in the presence or absence of sucrose and then acclimatized. Kinetin and benzyladenine (BAP) stimulated chloroplast differentiation. Inclusion of zeatin in the medium induced the formation of greater numbers of chloroplasts in the leaves, while plants cultivated in the presence of only kinetin and BAP demonstrated greater chlorophyll a and carotenoid content. The use of kinetin and BAP during in vitro culture promoted accumulation of dry matter during the acclimatization phase, especially in plants rooted under autotrophic conditions (without sucrose). Kinetin and BAP promoted development of more leaf area and greater plant survival rates in plant acclimatization on both autotrophic and heterotrophic media. The inhibitory effects of thidiazuron on the differentiation of chloroplasts, accumulation of chlorophyll a, and photosynthetic potential were examined.
20171622| Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis L.), a popular native American medicinal plant, is currently listed as endangered or threatened in over one-third of the states in which it is listed. The objective of this study was to develop an in vitro culture protocol for Goldenseal. Excised embryos were grown on Gamborg's B-5 medium with 0, 1 or 10 M gibberellic acid (GA), and supplemented with 30 g l sucrose and 8 g l agar. Germinated embryos provided explants (leaf and root tissue) that were subsequently cultured on various media with combinations of naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and benzyladenine (BA). All NAA/BA combinations produced multiple shoots, roots, and callus. Leaf explants cultured on medium with 1:10 M NAA:BA and root explants on medium with 1:1 M NAA:BA could be successfully used for micropropagation. 
20064823|Suspension cultures of the NT1 line of Nicotiana tabacum L. were used as a model system to study plant biolistic transformation, because of their uniformity, rapid growth, and ease of handling. The -glucuronidase gene and the neomycin phosphotransferase genes were used to assay transient and stable transformation. Numerous factors were studied and optimized, such that the frequency of transformation was increased roughly 60-fold for transient transformants and 20-fold for stable transformants. Both biological parameters (the promoter used to drive gene expression, osmotic preconditioning and postbombardment handling of the cells) and physical parameters of the bombardment process (particle acceleration device and accelerator parameters) were tested. The factors that increased transformation rates the most were promoter strength, use of a helium-driven particle accelerator, and osmotic preconditioning of the cells.
40663770|The goal of the present work is to establish a protocol that allows the in vitro propagation of Evolvulus glomeratus and Evolvulus arizonicus.Nodal segments of both species were disinfected by the standard method (ethanol/NaClO/Tween 80) with and without the addition of an antibiotics-antifungal mixture to the Murashige and Skoog (MS) complete medium, growth regulator free. E. arizonicus did not survive to the in vitro culture starting procedure. To determine the nutritional requirements for E.glomeratus, the nodal segments were cultured on different dilutions of the MS macronutrients, being the complete MS the more adequate basal medium. Two types of expiants were isolated from E. glomeratus for their in vitro propagation: nodal segments and leaves. The first ones were cultured on complete MS medium supplemented with increasing benzylaminopurine (BA) concentration from 0 to 4.4 M, and the second ones onto the same basal medium but supplemented with the following naphthalene acetic acid and BA concentration (micromolars): 0.0, 1.3, 2.6, and 5.3 for naphthalene acetic acid and 0.0, 1.1, 2.2, and 4.4 for benzylaminopurine in all possible combinations. Under the conditions applied from the leaves, no shoot regenerations were detected. On the other hand, it was possible to recover an average close to four shoots per expiant when the nodal segments were cultured on a medium supplemented with 2.2 M benzylaminopurine. For the rooting and rustication step, in vitro and ex vitro (with Growing Mix # 2 and Perlite as substrate) strategies were tested. The best result was 91.6% efficiency of acclimated plants obtained with the ex vitro procedure using Perlite. The use of intersimple sequence repeat showed no differences among the tested regenerated plants under the applied experiment conditions.The protocol developed here is the starting point for the application of biotechnological techniques for both the massive propagation and the improvement of E. glomeratus and other related species.
40793222|A Nicotiana tabacum L. SR-1 leaf protoplast system was used to study the effects of dehydroascorbate and glutathione on cellular development. We found that dehydroascorbate is readily taken up by protoplasts and internally reduced to ascorbate. Concomitantly, cell division was inhibited and cell expansion stimulated. In this respect, dehydroascorbate counteracted auxin-mediated leaf protoplast development. In contrast to the effects of dehydroascorbate, glutathione-induced cell dedifferentiation, and this effect is similar to that mediated by high auxin concentrations. We conclude that dehydroascorbate and glutathione affect the auxin-mediated regulation of cellular development. Therefore, the biological role of these compounds extends beyond stress tolerance and defense.
42568875|Eugenia myrtifolia Sims, is an evergreen shrub, native to temperate and tropical rainforests of Australia, which is becoming an important containerized ornamental plant in the US and Mediterranean nursery industries. To satisfy the growing market demands for this new ornamental plant, development of an accelerated propagation method is required. The goal of this study was to investigate the in vitro regeneration potential of E. myrtifolia Sims, seeds at different stages of development, towards establishment of an in vitro multiplication system. Maximum regeneration of adventitious shoots was achieved from immature seeds cultured in the dark on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) macronutrients and full-strength MS micronutrients and vitamins (MS/2) medium supplemented with 2.5 M thidiazuron (TDZ). Induction of regeneration occurred after at least two successive subcultures on TDZ-enriched medium, followed by subcultures on expression medium (hormone free MS/2) or multiplication medium [MM; MS medium enriched with 4.4 M 6-benzyladenine and 0.05 M -naphthaleneacetic acid], where complete development of shoots occurred. The regenerated shoots were excised and transferred again onto MM for micropropagation, where a proliferation rate of 1:4 was achieved, and finally the shoots were transferred to a hormone-free MS medium for rooting. Following ex vitro transplanting, acclimatization over a period of 15 d was sufficient to establish greenhouse plants. The regenerated plants grown in the field for more than 2 yr showed the same phenotype as that of mother plants. The adventitious regeneration and micropropagation carried out in this study can be used for a large-scale propagation and genetic engineering of E. myrtifolia Sims.
25623026|Accumulation of proline, activities of peroxidase (POX), catalase (CAT), phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL) and malate dehydrogenase (MDH) were studied during different developmental stages of somatic embryos in chickpea. Callus cultures that did not form somatic embryos served as control. While increased levels of proline and POX activity were noticed in globular stages of embryos, CAT activity increased during early and late heart-shaped embryo formation indicating tissue-specific activation of these enzymes. The activity of PAL reached a peak during torpedo and cotyledonary stages of embryo development. On the other hand, MDH activity enhanced during the germination of somatic embryos inferring more requirement of energy during this stage. Electrophoretic (sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis) pattern of proteins revealed that ten bands are associated with non-embryogenic tissues, whereas 11 bands with globular, heart, torpedo and cotyledonary stages of embryo development and nine bands during the germination stage of embryos. Two extra stage-specific protein bands with molecular masses of 16 and 18 kDa appeared during globular, heart, torpedo, and cotyledonary stages. But, these bands disappeared during germination of embryos and are absent in non-embryogenic cultures. This study thus may help in the identification of proteins and the role of above enzymes during different developmental stages of somatic embryo induction and their maturation in a recalcitrant leguminous crop plant chickpea.
40663768|Daucus carota subsp.halophilus, is a wild crop relative of domestic carrot. It is an aromatic plant widely used in folk medicine due to recognized therapeutic properties of its essential oils. Experiments were carried out to evaluate the potential of in vitro propagation techniques to the conservation of this endemic and endangered taxon. The results showed that shoot tips of in vitro germinated seeds were able to proliferate in the presence of benzyladenine, with the best results being achieved using 4.4 M, both in the first and second cultures. Shoots rooted after being transferred to 1/2-Murashige and Skoog basal medium. The results indicated that the concentration of benzyladenine used during the multiplication phase did not interfere with the rate of root formation. The obtained plantlets were morphologically and anatomically identical to those obtained by seeds. Some of the in vitro produced shoots developed flowers that produced viable pollen. Plant regeneration was also achieved by somatic embryogenesis induction in cotyledons and root segments cultured in the presence of 4.5 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Somatic embryos converted into plantlets in a medium without growth regulators.Plants obtained either by shoot proliferation or somatic embryogenesis were acclimatized and are now growing at the Coimbra Botanical Garden. The first attempts to reintroduce these plants in the original habitat were successful. It can be concluded that the protocols developed are a useful approach to the conservation of this endemic species.
4293146|The induction of metabolic changes in suspension cultured cells of Catharanthus roseus upon elicitation has been investigated. Addition of a yeast glucan preparation to the growth medium resulted in induction of phenylalanine ammonia lyase. Phosphate uptake and metabolism of elicited cells was followed by
23016745|A plant regeneration protocol was developed for white ash (Fraxinus americana L.). Hypocotyls and cotyledons excised from embryos were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) plus thidiazuron (TDZ), and compared for organogenic potential. Sixty-six percent of hypocotyl segments and 10.4% of cotyledon segments produced adventitious shoots, with a mean number of adventitious shoots per explant of 3.50.9 and 2.51.5, respectively. The best regeneration medium (52% shoot formation, 47% shoot elongation) for hypocotyls was MS basal medium containing 22.2 M BA plus 0.5 M TDZ, producing a mean of 3.90.4 adventitious shoots. Adventitious shoots were established as proliferating shoot cultures following transfer to MS medium with Gamborg B5 vitamins supplemented with 10 M BA plus 10 M TDZ. For in vitro rooting, woody plant medium with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) at 0, 2.9, 5.7, or 8.6 M in combination with 4.9 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) was tested for a 5- or 10-d dark culture period, followed by culture under a 16-h photoperiod. The best rooting (78% to 81%) of in vitro shoots was obtained with a 5 d dark culture treatment on medium containing 2.9 or 5.7 M IAA plus 4.9 M IBA, with an average of 2.60.4 roots per shoot. Rooted plants were successfully acclimatized to the greenhouse. This adventitious shoot regeneration and rooting protocol will be used as the basis for experimental studies to produce transgenic white ash with resistance to the emerald ash borer.
4293932|Four auxins (2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid [2,4-D], indole-3-acetic acid [IAA], indole-3-butyric acid [IBA], and naphthaleneacetic acid [NAA]), and five cytokinins (
42568810|In order to address the need for production of parthenocarpic fruits, embryognie cultures of 'Brewster' ('Chen Tze') litchi derived from leaves of a mature tree were transformed with the PISTILLATA (PI) cDNA in antisense orientation through Agrobacterium-mediatQd transformation. In four independently transformed lines, transgene integration was confirmed by conventional and quantitative PCR. The four transgenic lines differed with respect to the relative copy number of the transgene and expression levels, and there was no correlation between the two traits. The expression of the litchi PI homolog was detected in transformed and nontransformed embryognie cultures. Although expression levels were low overall, they were significantly higher in wild-type plants compared to lines that were transformed. This result suggests that post-transcriptional silencing of the litchi PI homolog induced by an antisense oriented transgene could be a successful strategy; however, silencing in floral primordia to produce parthenocarpic fruits can only be confirmed in mature plants after several years.
4293683|Acclimatization of sugarcane plantlets (Saccharum spp. hybrid) var. C91-301, micropropagated in temporary immersion bioreactors, was studied. When in vitro plantlets were transferred to acclimatization conditions, photosynthesis increased only slightly during the first 7 d. After this period, the increase was constant with only a small decline after transfer to uncontrolled external conditions. Production of fresh and dry weights, number of leaves and roots, leaf area, stomatal density and chlorophyll contents were evaluated during the acclimatization period. From day 14 on, sugarcane plantlets exhibited low but positive photosynthesis due to the new formation of leaves and roots. The increase in light intensity and the gradual reduction of relative humidity during acclimatization did not constitute inhibitory factors, as can be interpreted from the increased photosynthetic activity until 21 d. Stomatal density and leaf area after 21 d were also increased, while the chlorophyll content declined.
4293608|The basic factor underlying the success of the tissue culture, large-scale micropropagation and genetic transformation of any plant species is regeneration. This has been achieved over the years through the use of various-sized explants ranging from protoplasts (small scale) to entire organs (large scale). Inherent problems underlie the use of either extreme, leading to both nonspecific morphogenic reactions in the latter, or to undesired necrosis in the former. This review investigates the importance of different aspects of a thin cell layer (TCL) explant, from its source to its size. TCLs, as a result of their size and origin, in combination with other controllable factors such as media and environmental conditions, have shown this system to be superior to the use of conventional explants. Numerous species that were previously unsuccessfully tissue-cultured have, with the use of TCL technology, resulted in their successful micropropagation and regeneration. These successes, based on the inherent qualities of the TCL explant - specific for a given species - are also examined.
23321153|Adventitious shoots were induced from the hypocotyl explants derived from 1215-d-old seedlings of Sesbania rostrata on Nitsch's medium (Nitsch, 1969) supplemented with 1 mg l1 (4.4 M) of N6-benzyladenine (BA). A maximum of 5.9  3.4 shoots per explant in 100% of cultures were obtained. The BA treatment for different time durations (1, 3, 5, 7, 10, 17, 21, or 30 d) exhibited significant variation in the caulogenic potential of the explants. BA treatment for 1017 d proved optimum for the response. Although at all concentrations of kinetin the explants developed multiple shoots, they were malformed. Sucrose at 3% exhibited the development of the maximum of 3.5  0.9 shoots per explant with an average shoot length of 4.7  3.9 cm. Among the different carbon sources, i.e., fructose, galactose, maltose, mannose, and sucrose at 3% (w/v), sucrose supported the best caulogenic response. The role of various other factors (viz. size, orientation of explant, and seedling age) on the caulogenic response of the hypocotyl explants of S. rostrata were also studied. The shoot development in all cases was accompanied by the development of moderate to profuse callus at the basal cut end of the explant. The in vitro-regenerated shoots produced roots when transferred to half-strength MS medium (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) supplemented with 3% sucrose and 1 mg l1 (4.9 M) indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). The developed plantlets were transferred to the field after an initial acclimatization period of 34 mo. Such transferred plants produced flowers and fruits in the field and exhibited the development of prominent and organized stem nodules.
4293166|The success of in vitro culture is related to several factors. Beside factors associated with the plant material or the medium composition, the physicochemical characteristics of gelled media can play an important role. In this paper, the latter aspect has been considered and the nature of agar powders has been investigated. Moreover, the process of gel formation for three different media and the availability of water and minerals for the corresponding gels have been studied. Analysis of agar powders showed that they can contain different amounts of impurities and the dialysis of these powders suggested that the impurities might be available to the tissues. Thermal analysis on the hygroscopic properties of the agar brands suggest the importance of these data to obtain comparable and reproducible gelled media. The study on the process of formation of gelled media indicates that there is a critical temperature
20065022|The important advances in coffee biotechnological techniques which have been made particularly during the last 10 yr could benefit the coffee breeder in practice and open new perspectives for the development of new varieties. The molecular phylogeny of Coffea species has been established using DNA sequence data. The molecular markers have revealed an extremely reduced genetic diversity in Coffea arabica L. in comparison to C. canephora. However, wild accessions collected in the Ethiopian highlands appeared to constitute a valuable gene reservoir. A complete genetic linkage map of C. canephora was reported and additional ones are being constructed, particularly on C. arabica. The integration of Molecular Assisted Selection in coffee breeding promises to drastically increase the efficiency of breeding programs. Economically important genes of the caffeine biosynthetic pathway or genes encoding for seed storage proteins have been isolated. The high performance already achieved in the in vitro propagation process by somatic embryogenesis offers the possibility to mass propagate superior hybrids in different countries of both C. arabica (selected F hybrids) and C. canephora (rootstock variety). Pilot productions by somatic embryogenesis currently permit preparation for commercial application. Somaclonal variation was observed. The percentage of the off-types can vary between 3 and 10% depending on the genotype. Seed cryopreservation enables a routine use for long-term conservation of coffee genetic resources. Transgenic plants have been obtained for the C. arabica and C. canephora cultivated species through Agrobacterium-mediated transformation which constitutes the technique now currently used to transfer directly genes in coffee plants.
20541005|Arbutus unedo L. is a species of strawberry tree, widely represented in the Mediterranean climates of southern Europe. Fruits are used to make jellies and a spirit called "medronheira." Shoot apices and nodal segments from epicormic and coppiced shoots of adult plants were used for plant propagation. Shoot apices from epicormic shoots, which were developed in a growth chamber, showed higher rates of in vitro establishment. The results also indicated that shoot apices are more effective for plant establishment than nodal segments, with rates of establishment significantly higher after 12 wk of culture. Of the three basal media used in combination with 9.0 M benzyladenine and 0.087 M sucrose, the FS medium with the micronutrients of the Murashige and Skoog medium gave the highest rates of multiplication, especially when the parameter analyzed was the number of clusters formed. When shoot apices from selected adult plants (AL01-AL06) were tested, the multiplication rate was not significantly different among the plants. However, in the conditions tested, shoots from the clones AL1, AL2, and AL3 showed better development, whereas shoots from AL4, AL5, and AL6 showed an impaired development and could not be rooted. Rooting was achieved in all the conditions tested, even in the absence of auxin. The inclusion of an auxin significantly increased root formation, whereas the addition of charcoal did not improve root formation. Rooted plantlets were acclimatized, and some of them are now in the field for further study.
4293731| Agitated layers of liquid medium were created on platform shakers in jars with 25-30 ml of medium (similar to conventional agar culture) rotating at 90 rpm. Thin films were scaled up in larger rectangular vessels on tilted shelves that periodically rock. In jars of liquid medium with a density of 180 explants per liter, multiplication rates of Hosta tokudama var. 'Newberry Gold' were optimal with a media sucrose concentration of 5% [both with and without 1 M benzyladenine (BA)]. Endogenous levels of soluble sugars were directly related to the concentration of sucrose in the medium. Three Hosta cultivars ('Striptease', 'Minuteman', and 'Stiletto') with plant densities of 40-200 explants per liter of medium were tested in larger, agitated, thin-film vessels in media with 5% sucrose and directly compared to agar medium. Higher rates of multiplication were observed in liquid than agar with the magnitude of the difference dependent on explant density. Pooled results for the three varieties with 200 explants per liter showed multiplication rates of 1.7 x and 2.3 x for agar and thin-film liquid, respectively. At 40 explants per liter, the multiplication rate was increased to 2.1 x for agar and 3.4 x for thin-film liquid. Sugar uptake was greater in liquid than agar and was greater in the higher densities, with the magnitude of the effect dependent on plant variety. Increased vessel size in the liquid, thin-film system and greater sugar uptake allowed more, larger plants to be harvested. Alocasia macrorrhizos was cultured in growth medium containing 1 M BA and 5% sucrose with plant densities in the range of 33-330 explants per liter. Dry weight and multiplication rate were greater in the liquid system than agar with the magnitude of the difference dependent on plant density. With approximately 165 explants per liter, and greater at the initiation of culture, plant density limited growth in both agar and liquid thin-film systems. In a multiplication medium (3 M BA and 3 M ancymidol) plant size was reduced by 50% and 60% (fresh weight) in liquid and agar, respectively. Initial density in the range of 165-330 explants per liter did not limit growth with the smaller plants in liquid or semisolid multiplication medium. Sugar uptake was greater in liquid than agar. While ample sugar was present in media for growth at any density on agar, sugar depletion was limiting growth at highest densities with the larger plants in liquid growth medium. In semisolid agar medium, sugar uptake by plants was more rapid than diffusion across the agar medium, resulting in non-equilibrium conditions following the culture cycle. In agitated, liquid medium, a greater transfer of sugars to plant tissue was related to accelerated growth. 
20540997|We isolated a DREB homologue gene, MtDREB2A, from Medicago truncatula. Its deduced protein contains an AP2 domain of 59 amino acids. The expression of MtDREB2A was significantly induced in roots by salt and drought treatments. Using megaprimer PCR, we deleted a Ser/Thr-rich coding region between residues 142 and 190, and transformed MtDREB2A to a constitutive form, namely, MtDREB2a. Yeast one-hybrid assay revealed that both MtDREB2A and MtDREB2a specifically bound to the dehydration-responsive element (DRE) and activated the expression of the reporter genes of HIS3 and LacZ. Analysis of transcription activities of the proteins in yeast indicated that MtDREB2a could activate the expression of reporter gene, whereas MtDREB2A could not. Overexpression of MtDREB2a in transgenic M. truncatula resulted in significant dwarfed seedling. These results suggested that MtDREB2A functioned specially in response to salt and drought stresses in M. truncatula and that deletion of the Ser/Thr-rich region between residues 142 and 190 activated the transcriptional activation ability of MtDREB2A.
40663772|Tuberisation was obtained in vitro on yam (Dioscorea cayenensis-Dioscorea rotundata complex). The effect of exogenous polyamines on tuber formation and development (length and weight of microtubers) was investigated and discussed in relation with changes in endogenous polyamines. Application of exogenous polyamines, inhibitors of their metabolism, and polyamines precursors in various concentrations positively affected microtuber formation by yam nodal cuttings and their further development. In control conditions, 3 wk are needed to obtain 100% of tuberisation. With low concentrations of putrescine (10 or 10 M), tuber formation occurred earlier Polyamine endogenous level and metabolism can be significantly affected by exogenous polyamines, but modifications of endogenous free polyamines could not be directly correlated to the tuber formation process. Increases in endogenous putrescine and auxins were observed in tubers showing a better development in the presence of putrescine. These results can be used for optimising in vitro conditions for mass production of larger microtubers of the D. cayenensis-D. rotundata complex.
23016606|Routine production of haploid plants has not been reported for any legume, despite the major role these species play in sustainable farming systems and human nutrition. It is within this context that we report a protocol for the induction of haploid development in chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) using isolated microspore culture. The cultivars "Rupali", "Narayen", and "Kimberley Large" were identified as responsive to isolated microspore culture. Flower bud length and microspore developmental stage were correlated for these cultivars. Depending on the cultivar, buds 2.853.5 mm in length contained uninucleate microspores. Microspores from donor plants grown in winter and spring were more responsive than those grown in summer. A cold treatment (4C) of between 24 and 48 h enhanced microspore response in winter- and spring-grown material but was not effective in summer-grown material. A medium developed by the authors was effective for microspore induction and early-stage embryo development. The addition of hormones to this medium was promotive of microspore induction in winter- and spring-grown material, but not in summer-grown material. The initial haploid division predominantly occurred via symmetrical division of the vegetative nucleus. Further research is under way to convert pro-embryos into plants.
25623008|The genetic modification of Coffea arabica fruits is an important tool for the investigation of physiological characteristics and functional validation of genes related to coffee bean quality traits. In this work, plants of C. arabica cultivar Catua Vermelho were successfully genetically modified by bombardment of embryogenic calli. Calli were obtained from 90% of the leaf explants cultivated in a callogenesis-inducing medium modified with 20 M 2, 4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). The resulting calli were bombarded with the pBI426 vector containing a uidA and nptII gene fusion that was driven by the double CaMV35s promoter. Kanamycin-selected embryos were positive for -glucuronidase (GUS) activity in histochemical assays and for target gene amplification by polymerase chain reaction. Integration of the nptII gene was confirmed by Southern blot and showed a low copy number (one to three) of insertions. Transformed plants showed normal development and settled fruits. GUS expression was assessed in the flower and fruit organs demonstrating the capacity of the double CaMV35s promoter to drive long-term stable expression of uidA in C. arabica fruit tissues. Moreover, we obtained a T progeny presenting 3:1 Mendelian segregation of the uidA gene. This investigation is the first to report exogenous gene expression in coffee fruits and transgenic inheritance in C. arabica plants.
42568802|Mineral nutrition in the media used for growth of in vitro plants is often difficult to optimize due to complex chemical interactions of required nutrients. The response of plant tissue to standard growth media varies widely due to the genetic diversity of the plant species studied. This study was designed as the initial step in determining the optimal mineral nutrient requirements for micropropagation of shoot tips from a collection of genetically diverse pear germplasm.Five mineral nutrient factors were defined from Murashige and Skoog salts: NHNO, KNO, mesos (CaCl2H0-KHPO-MgSO), micronutrients (B, Cu, Co, I, Mn, Mo, and Zn), and Fe-EDTA. Each factor was varied over a range of concentrations. Treatment combinations were selected using response surface methods. Five pears in three species (Pyrus communis 'Horner 51,' 'Old HomeFarmingdale 87,' 'Winter Nelis,' Pyrus dimorphophylla, and Pyrus ussuriensis 'Hang Pa Li') were grown on each treatment combination, responses were measured, and each response was analyzed by analysis of variance. The analyses resulted in the identification of the following factors with the single largest effects on plant response: shoot quality (mesos), leaf spotting/necrosis (mesos), leaf size (mesos), leaf color (mesos, NHNO, and KNO), shoot number (NHNO and Fe), nodes (NHNO and KNO), and shoot length (mesos and Fe). Factors with the largest effects (mesos and Fe) were similar among the genotypes. This approach was very successful for defining the appropriate types and concentrations of mineral nutrients for micropropagation of diverse pear genotypes.
4293676| The effects of the ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) and two inhibitors, silver thiosulfate (STS) and aminoethoxyvinylglycine (AVG), were tested in yellow passionfruit (Passiflora edulis f. flavicarpa Degener) axillary buds cultured in vitro. The organogenic responses were assessed by the number of buds per explant, mean leaf area per explant, and shoot length. ACC-supplemented medium significantly inhibited all evaluated responses at both concentrations tested. When ethylene action and biosynthesis were inhibited, a significant increase in the number of developed buds and average leaf area was observed. Accumulated ethylene and its accumulation rate were significantly greater at 10 M ACC, with a maximum production rate detected: at the 14th day and a decline at the 21st day. The results suggest beneficial effects of ethylene inhibitors on in vitro development of axillary buds and their reliability for use as an alternative approach to evaluate sensitivity of Passiflora species to ethylene. Even though shoot elongation did not differ from that of the control, the inhibition of the ethylene action and its biosynthesis by AVG and STS, respectively, significantly enhanced the number of buds per explant and leaf area. 
4293250|There are many Chihuahuan desert species that have potential as landscape plants for the arid communities of the southwestern United States [agarita, Berberis trifoliata Moric; Mexican buckeye, Ungnadia speciosa Endl.; Texas madrone, Arbutus xalapensis var. texana (Buckl.) A. Gray]. Within these plant populations, there are superior genotypes that offer even greater interest for the landscape. However, it is difficult to clonally propagate many of these species with conventional techniques, and the seed-derived populations often do not breed true. Therefore, selection of superior genotypes in wild populations coupled with clonal propagation through tissue culture may offer an attractive option. It is relatively easy to achieve disinfestation of explants from desert plants due to a general lack of natural surface contamination by fungi and bacteria, even though interference from numerous trichomes can impede good contact with disinfesting agents. However, there is only a narrow window of time that is ideal for explant collection, because of the brief, periodic flushes of growth that characterize this unusual plant group. There may be years when, due to the harsh environment, the amount of suitable explant material is severely limited. Phenolics and exudates are also problematic in this group of plants, and acclimatization of ex vitro plantlets to the harsh desert environment is a particular challenge. For these reasons, specific adaptations and modifications were necessary to achieve success with micropropagation of desert plant species such as Mexican redbud (Cercis canadensis var. mexicana L.).
4293800| Shoot tips and leaves excised from in vitro shoot cultures of Salvia nemorosa were evaluated for their organogenic capacity under in vitro conditions. The best shoot proliferation from shoot tips was obtained on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 8.9 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 2.9 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Leaf lamina and petiole explants formed shoots through organogenesis via callus stage and/or directly from explant tissue. The highest values for shoot regeneration were obtained with 0.9 M BA and 2.9 M IAA for lamina explants. No shoot organogenesis was obtained on leaf explants cultured on MS medium supplemented with -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The regenerated shoots rooted the best on MS medium containing 0.6 M IAA or 0.5 M NAA. In vitro-propagated plants were transferred to soil with a survival rate of 85% after 3 mo. 
4293128|Minimal bactericidal concentrations (MBCs) were determined for 16 bacterial strains isolated from strawberry runners. Bacteria were treated with single antibiotics: Timentin, streptomycin sulfate, gentamicin, and dihydrostreptomycin; and with combinations of two or three antibiotics: Timentin, streptomycin sulfate, and gentamicin. Combinations of the three antibiotics (12) were effective with all bacteria tested and were then used to treat contaminated plantlets. Fragaria X ananassa Duch. cv. Jucunda inoculated with Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria or Pseudomonas corrugata were grown for 1 wk, then treated with combinations of Timentin, streptomycin, and gentamicin. Antibiotic treatments were 100% effective in eliminating P. corrugata from 'Jucunda,' but only 23% of the plants inoculated with X. campestris pv. vesicatoria were freed of the bacteria. Phytotoxicity was observed only at high antibiotic concentrations. Detection of bacteria from treated plants was most effective after one subculture, as antibiotics continued to inhibit bacterial growth on detection medium immediately after treatment.
23016590|South Africa has a rich flora which exhibits among the highest species density in the world, distributed across nine biomes that support an impressive diversity of animal life. However, a variety of human actions, invasion by alien species, natural disturbances and climate change collectively impact negatively on the great diversity of both plant and animal species. In situ conservation has long been practised, primarily in nature reserves, complemented by ex situ conservation in national botanic gardens, but in vitro plant conservation is not common. In the context of animal biodiversity conservation, the Wildlife Biological Resource Centre of the National Zoological Gardens utilises cryobanking as one of its major focuses and is now poised to expand as the repository for the cryoconservation of plant germplasm, particularly for indigenous recalcitrant-seeded and poor-seeding species. However, there are particular problems associated with successful germplasm cryostorage of such tropical and subtropical plants. As we see the science and application of cryobiology and cryoconservation as cross-cutting and transdisciplinary, we have entrained formal networking among scientists offering a range of specialisations aimed at a deeper understanding of common problems and practical outcomes to facilitate both plant and animal biobanking. The endeavours are aimed at elucidating the basis of both successes and failures in our efforts to attain optimal outcomes. With focus on best practices, standard operating procedures, validation and risk management for cryopreserved and cold-stored plant and animal material, our ultimate aim is to facilitate restoration by the safe reintroduction of indigenous species.
20064941|Ethylene effect on in vitro shoot proliferation of two apple rootstocks, MM111 and M9, was studied. Ethylene biosynthesis was proportionally stimulated by increasing concentrations of the precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC). When 25 M or more ACC was applied without any control of the headspace of culture vessels, shoot proliferation of both rootstocks was negatively affected. However, when shoot cultures were transferred to ACC-supplemented medium after the second week of culture, ACC had no effect. Supplementing the medium with aminoethoxyvinylglycine (AVG), an inhibitor of ethylene biosynthesis, together with the application of gas traps inside the flasks, significantly enhanced axillary shoot formation and elongation. Steady and high exogenous concentrations of ethylene in the culture flasks had negative effects on shoot proliferation. MM111 appeared to be more sensitive to ethylene than M9. For AVG a threshold dose was noticed, beyond which phytotoxic effects were induced.
20541053|The propagation of Givotia rottleriformis Griff. is difficult as a result of long seed dormancy associated with poor seed germination. The present study was undertaken to develop a protocol to overcome seed dormancy by culture of zygotic embryo axes and then develop an efficient method for micropropagation of Givotia. Best germination frequency (78.3%) was achieved from mature zygotic embryo axes isolated from acid-scarified fresh seeds when cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (half-strength major salts) with 28.9 M gibberellic acid (GA). Efficient plant conversion was achieved by transfer of 10-d-old germinated embryos to MS medium (half-strength major salts) supplemented with 1.2 M kinetin (KN) and 0.5 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). However, acid scarification of 1-yr-old seeds decreased the germination frequency of zygotic embryo axes in comparison to those obtained from non-acid-scarified seeds which germinated (96.2%) and converted into plants (80.3%) on MS basal (half-strength major salts) medium. Multiple shoot bud induction was achieved by culture of shoot tips derived from in vitro germinated seedlings on MS medium with 0.5 M thidiazuron for 4 wk, and the shoots elongated after transfer to a secondary medium with 1.2 M KN. A maximum number of 7.8 shoots per explant with an average shoot length of 3.2 cm was achieved after two subcultures on this medium. The in vitro regenerated shoots rooted (41.5%) on half-strength MS medium with 0.5 M IBA. The in vitro generated seedlings and micro-propagated plants were established in soil with a survival frequency of 70% and 60%, respectively.
4293249|Conventional propagation of amaryllis, Hippeastrum Herbert sp. hybrids by bulb offsets is slow, seasonal, and variable; additionally, some amaryllis hybrids do not produce many offsets. From seed, it takes approximately 2 yr to flower. Micropropagation of Zephyranthes L. sp. bulbs has challenges related to contamination of stage I cultures as well as genotype differences in culture media requirements. There are literature reports on in vitro propagation of both genera; however, the application of these reports to new cultivars leaves unanswered questions regarding surface disinfestation, explant, nutrient media, and multiplication rates. Surface disinfestation of container-grown Hippeastrum spp. hybrid cv. San Antonio Rose bulbs resulted in contamination rates of 20 to 100% in spite of various treatments, some of which killed the explant. Twin scale explants of San Antonio Rose bulbs responded on a Murashige and Skoog salt medium with 2 mg naphthalene acetic acid per l, and transfer to soil was not a problem. In contrast, aseptically germinated seed of Zephyranthes sp. served as a suitable source of clean bulb tissue.
4293508|In order to better understand somaclonal variant rate evolution in plant tissue culture, a statistical approach has been adopted. According to this approach, the variant percentage could be calculated by:
20064946|Scanning electron microscopy, light microscopy, and gravimetric analysis was used to evaluate stomatal function, epicuticular wax, and the stem-root transition region of grape (Vitis sp. 'Valiant') plantlets grown in vitro, polyethylene glycol-treated in vitro, and greenhouse-grown plants. Scanning electron microscopic studies of leaf surfaces of in vitro-grown plants showed widely open stomata as compared to leaf stomata of polyethylene glycol-treated in vitro-cultured and greenhouse-grown plants. Ultrastructurally, leaf epicuticular wax of in vitro plants was less dense than in their polyethylene-treated and greenhouse counterparts. Quantitatively, in vitro-grown plants had reduced epicuticular wax as compared to polyethylene glycol-treated and greenhouse-grown plants. Light microscopic studies showed no obvious differences in the vascular connections in the stem-root transition region of in vitro-cultured, polyethylene glycol-treated in vitro-cultured, and greenhouse-grown plants. It is therefore likely that the rapid wilting and desiccation observed after transplanting in vitro grape plantlets is due to their defective stomatal function and reduced epicuticular wax and may not be due to poor water transport associated with vascular connection.
4292926|Sugar in the medium is considered to be an essential cause for the high production costs of plantlets in conventional, heterotrophic micropropagation. Chlorophyllous expiants, shoots, and plantlets in vitro have high photosynthetic ability to develop photoautotrophy, but their photosynthetic activity is restricted largely by the low CO
20541049|An in vitro regeneration system with a 100% efficiency rate was developed in peppermint [Mentha x piperita] using 5- to 7-mm-long second internode stem segments of 3-wk-old stock plants. Shoots developed at sites of excision on stem fragments either directly from the cells or via primary calluses. The optimal medium for maximum shoot initiation and regeneration contained Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts, B5 vitamins, thidiazuron (TDZ, 11.35 M), ZT (4.54 M), 10% coconut water (CW), 20 g l sucrose, 0.75% agar, adjusted to pH 5.8. A frequency of 100% shoot initiation was achieved, with an average of 39 shoots per explant. This regeneration system is highly reproducible. The regenerated plants developed normally and were phenotypically similar to Black Mitcham parents.
4293088|The effects of changes in the concentration of macronutrients on BA-induced caulogenesis from leaves of mature Juniperus oxycedrus cultured on modified Murashige and Skoog or Schenk and Hildebrandt media are reported. The bud-forming capacity of the expiants depended mainly on the ratios among the levels of ammonium, nitrate, and potassium. The most favorable media formulations for differentiation of adventitious buds were those with nitrate:potassium, ammonium:potassium, and nitrate:ammonium ratios near 1, around 0.1, and between 9 and 15, respectively. The total ionic strength of the media limited bud induction, but only when a disequilibrium of these ratios was produced.
40981343|The photochemical reflectance index (PRI) of micropropagated potato leaves was estimated nondestructively from outside the culture vessel using a PRI imaging system developed by the present group. The PRI was determined under low light intensity conditions after dark treatment and compared with the chlorophyll fluorescence parameter Fv/Fm, which denotes photosystem II maximum quantum yield. Short-term high-light treatment decreased Fv/Fm of the plantlets. Culture conditions such as temperature and sucrose concentration also affected Fv/Fm. A linear relationship between the PRI and Fv/Fm was observed in both cases of high-light treatment and different culture conditions, suggesting the potential of the PRI to be used as a substitute for Fv/Fm. PRI estimated from reflection images under low light intensity conditions may be used for rapid and noninvasive evaluation of photosynthetic properties of micropropagated plantlets in a similar manner to Fv/Fm.
4293786|The present study reports that a revised nutrient concentration in the basal medium improved shoot bud induction and subsequent plant regeneration in barley (Hordeum vulgare L. var. BL-2). Cultures were raised from immature embryos on
4293633|The influence of the gaseous composition of the atmosphere inside culturing vessels on somatic embryogenesis and on adventitious root formation was investigated in the quince clone (Cydonia oblonga Mill.) BA29. Leaves taken from in vitro-grown shoots were cultured in glass Petri dishes and exposed to ventilation with atmospheric air (flow rate
4293635| A method has been developed for the induction of adventitious shoots from leaf tissue of Echinacea pallida with subsequent whole-plant regeneration. Proliferating callus and shoot cultures were derived from leaf tissue explants placed on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine and naphthaleneacetic acid combinations. The optimum shoot regeneration frequency (63%) and number of shoots per explant (2.3 shoots per explant) was achieved using media supplemented with 26.6 M 6-benzylaminopurine and 0.11 M naphthaleneacetic acid. Rooting of regenerated shoot explants was successful on Murashige and Skoog medium, both with and without the addition of indole-3-butyric acid. All plantlets survived acclimatization, producing phenotypically normal plants in the greenhouse. This study demonstrates that leaf tissue of E. pallida is competent for adventitious shoot regeneration and establishes a useful method for the micropropagation of this important medicinal plant. 
20461654|This study investigated the factors affecting in vitro flowering of Perilla frutescens. The shoots regenerated from cotyledonary and hypocotyl explants cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with benzyladenine (BA) and indole-3-acetic acid, each at 0.5 mg l, were excised and transferred to MS medium containing 30 g l of sucrose, 8.25 g l of ammonium nitrate, and 1.0 mg l of BA. After 40 d of culture, 86.2% of shoots flowered and most of which self-fertilized in vitro and produced mature fruits with viable seeds. These seeds were germinated and plants were grown to maturity and flowered in soil under greenhouse conditions. The in vitro flowering system reported in this study may facilitate rapid breeding of P. frutescens and offers a model system for studying the physiological mechanism of flowering.
4293663|The purpose of this study was to establish an efficient in vitro nodulation device for producing actinorhizal root nodules on Allocasuarina verticillata and Casuarina glauca. Seeds from the two species were germinated aseptically and seedlings with at least two photosynthetic branchlets and a 3-5 cm long root system were transferred into Petri dishes containing a biphasic (solid/liquid) medium. To assess the nodulation capacity, four different culture media were tested. As soon as the root system developed and spread adequately on the surface of the medium, plants were deprived of nitrogen for at least 1 wk and inoculated with the Frankia strain. The time course nodulation for A. verticillata showed that the basal Hoagland medium supplemented with CaCO
23254895|Garlic, an important flavoring agent and a medicinally useful plant, can take up selenium from its immediate surrounding medium and incorporate it at high concentrations into amino acids and phytochemicals. Selenium, supplied as 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, and 4.0 mg L -1 Na 2 SeO 3 increased the amino acid, protein, proline, and alliin content of in vitro-grown callus, embryo, plantlet, leaf, and root tissues of Allium sativum L. The enhancement was significant at 2 and 4 mg L -1 . Superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione reductase activities increased in all in vitro-grown tissues and organs with increasing selenium concentrations, but enzyme activity was highest with 4 mg L -1 selenium.
20064828|Continuous culture is an attractive research tool in physiologic and growth and production kinetics research. However, fulfillment of the basic assumptions of continuous culture in the experimental set-up may cause problems. The homogeneity of plant cell cultures and effluent, particularly, may cause problems. This paper presents an experimental set-up which solves these problems and describes the use of this equipment in a study of the growth kinetics of plant cells. Industrial application of the continuous culture of plant cells in the production of secondary metabolites seems to be profitable when compared with batch or fed-batch cultures. However, various problems such as uncoupled product formation and strain instability make fed-batch culture a better choice.
20461596|Experiments were carried out with Taxus baccata cell lines showing different paclitaxel-producing capacities (between 1.74 and 19.91 mg l) when growing in a selected product-formation medium that specifically stimulated the production of taxane to the detriment of cell growth. Through mixing low-, medial- and high-producing lines, it could be observed that paclitaxel productivity in the resulting mixed lines was clearly higher than the mean productivity of the individual lines before mixing. This suggests that culture components generated by high-producing individual lines within the population might induce paclitaxel production. Although the accumulation of paclitaxel and baccatin III was higher when 100 M methyl jasmonate was added to the subcultures of the mixed lines, the results indicate that exogenously applied methyl jasmonate was not the first factor to stimulate taxane production. The possible effects of methyl jasmonate elicitation and paclitaxel accumulation on cell viability are also considered.
20064899|Somatic embryogenesis was observed with explants taken from four types of Aesculus tissue: (a) shoots of 4-wk-old in vitro germinated excised embryos (seed from A.  arnoldiana), (b) roots of 4-wk-old in vitro germinated excised embryos (seed from A.  arnoldiana), (c) shoots from newly forced 3-yr-old seedlings (A. glabra), and (d) newly forced shoots from a 30-yr-old tree (A.  arnoldiana "Autumn Splendor"). Shoots provided three types of explants, single node, shoot apex, and internodal section, and all exhibited embryogenesis. Proembryogenic masses developed in a few cases after 6 wk in culture but were more commonly seen after 3 mo. The yellow, friable proembryogenic masses emerged from proximal cut ends of explants. Almost all cultures that formed embryos possessed leaves, either from developing apical or axillary buds or from adventitious buds, prior to the emergence of proembryogenic masses. Only tissues that had begun to senesce and had been exposed to cytokinin (benzyladenine at 5 or 25 M) formed somatic embryos. Embryos with distinct cotyledonlike structures and root/shoot axes developed during the 10 to 16 wk following the initial emergence of proembryogenic masses. Enhanced frequency of embryogenesis was obtained by dark culture of root and shoot explants from 4-wk-old germinated embryos (A.  arnoldiana) and by dark and cold (5 C) treatment of shoot tissue cultures derived from 3-yr-old seedlings (A. glabra). Embryogenic potential was greatest in the most juvenile tissue and least in the mature tissue. Five percent of shoot explants taken from the 30-yr-old select tree A.  arnoldiana "Autumn Splendor" produced somatic embryos.
20540986|Seed explants of A. stenosperma were cultured on MS medium supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine with the aim of rescuing nonviable accessions stored in seed bank conditions. The regeneration potential of leaf explants from in vitro plants derived from embryonic axes was studied by using whole leaflets and leaflet segments. Explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with different concentrations of 6-benzylaminopurine and naphthalene acetic acid. Indirect organogenesis was observed in response to 6-benzylaminopurine, either alone or in association with naphthalene acetic acid, in both explant types. Media supplemented with naphthalene acetic acid as the sole growth regulator induced rhizogenesis in whole leaflets and leaflet segments, with subsequent shoot production directly from the roots.
20065030|An efficient protocol for large-scale micropropagation of Isoplexis canariensis (L.) Loud., I. chalcantha Svent. and O'Shan., and I. isabelliana (Webb and Berth.) Masf. (Scrophulariaceae) is reported. Multiple shoots were obtained from shoot tips and nodal segments isolated from seedlings when cultured under varying conditions. Factors such as nutrient media, concentration of growth regulators, and type of induction medium (liquid or solid) strongly influenced shoot proliferation and development. Multiple well-developed shoots were obtained after induction on solid media containing Murashige and Skoog full-strength salts and low cytokinin concentrations. By changing the major salt formulation to half strength and employing liquid media the morphogenic parameters evaluated were affected negatively. Many shoots rooted spontaneously in hormone-free media and plants grew successfully in the greenhouse. Flowering was observed 6 mo. after ex vitro cultures were established.
20064820|The involvement of free and conjugated polyamines in tuber formation was studied in in vitro cultured node explants of Solanum tuberosum cv. Superior. Tubers developed from the axillary buds in 100% of the explants cultured in MS medium containing high sucrose levels and supplemented with kinetin (Kin) and chlorocholine chloride (CCC). The addition of growth regulators was not essential for tuber formation, although smaller tubers were formed in the medium devoid of Kin and CCC. Tuber formation was inhibited in about 75% of node explants treated with 0.5 mM difluoromethylornithine (DFMO), a specific and irreversible inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase. The inhibitory effect of DFMO was almost completely reversed by putrescine addition. Addition of difluoromethylarginine (DFMA), the analogous inhibitor of arginine decarboxylase, had no effect on tuber formation. DFMO, but not DFMA, also inhibited the development of axillary buds into shoots in light-grown node explants. Aminooxyphenylpropionic acid (0.1 to 0.25 mM), an inhibitor of phenylalanine ammonia lyase, caused a sharp reduction in cinnamoyl putrescines, but had no effect on tuber formation. Our results suggest that hydroxycinnamic acids are not causal in tuber formation but may serve as polyamine storage pools. Our findings support the hypothesis that polyamines derived via the ornithine decarboxylase-mediated pathway are necessary for tuber formation in vitro, probably at the early phase of morphogenesis involving active cell division.
4293518|Success has been achieved in developing a complete protocol for mass propagation of Anogeissus pendula and A. latifolia, two important forest species found in India. Seeds cultured on plant growth regulator-free, semisolid Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium germinated within 5-6wk and formed 4-6-cm long shoots. The shoots multiplied on
4293352| We describe a protocol, and several experiments that helped lead to its development, for sunflower regeneration. Important factors for sunflower regeneration were explant age, cytokinin type and concentration, basal medium, and explant source. We could not induce shoot regeneration from the explants derived from mature tissues including leaf, petiole, and stem. However, use of juvenile explants such as embryo meristem and primordial leaf tissues allowed routine regeneration of 17 different sunflower genotypes. High frequency of shoot regeneration was achieved with these explants taken from seedlings up to 5 d after germination. Explant age was less critical for embryo meristem explants than for primordial leaf tissues. Of the four basal media tested, MS and B5 media produced higher shoot-regeneration frequencies than did Anderson and woody plant media. The highest shoot-regeneration frequency was obtained with MS medium supplemented with 2 M BA and without auxin. Addition of 1 M naphthalene-acetic acid to the medium significantly reduced both the percentage of explants producing shoots and average number of shoots per explant. Regenerated shoots were grown to maturity in a greenhouse. 
4293691|Since the success of Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of rice in the early 1990s, significant advances in Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of monocotyledonous plant species have been achieved. Transgenic plants obtained via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation have been regenerated in more than a dozen monocotyledonous species, ranging from the most important cereal crops to ornamental plant species. Efficient transformation protocols for agronomically important cereal crops such as rice, wheat, maize, barley, and sorghum have been developed and transformation for some of these species has become routine. Many factors influencing Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of monocotyledonous plants have been investigated and elucidated. These factors include plant genotype, explant type, Agrobacterium strain, and binary vector. In addition, a wide variety of inoculation and co-culture conditions have been shown to be important for the transformation of monocots. For example, antinecrotic treatments using antioxidants and bactericides, osmotic treatments, desiccation of explants before or after Agrobacterium infection, and inoculation and co-culture medium compositions have influenced the ability to recover transgenic monocots. The plant selectable markers used and the promoters driving these marker genes have also been recognized as important factors influencing stable transformation frequency. Extension of transformation protocols to elite genotypes and to more readily available explants in agronomically important crop species will be the challenge of the future. Further evaluation of genes stimulating plant cell division or T-DNA integration, and genes increasing competency of plant cells to Agrobacterium, may increase transformation efficiency in various systems. Understanding mechanisms by which treatments such as desiccation and antioxidants impact T-DNA delivery and stable transformation will facilitate development of efficient transformation systems.
20064840|A cell line of Datura innoxia was selected in suspension culture to be resistant to 1% (vol/vol) ethanol (
4293809|Despite intensive efforts, a reproducible and reliable method for transformation of sugarbeet plants is still lacking. Having examined several explants, we found that cells around the main vein of leaves of plantlets reared from tissue-cultured apical meristems are sufficiently competent for transformation and subsequent regeneration. A transformation protocol was designed by evaluating alterations in several parameters such as plant genotype, Agrobacterium strain, antibiotics, darkness and duration of co-culture period. An average transformation rate of 6.2% transformed shoots per explant was achieved as judged by Southern blotting. Consistent inactivation of reporter genes was correlated to multiple copies of transgenes present in some transformants. The necessary steps for rooting and planting of transformed shoots were also established.
20064969|We have developed micropropagation systems for 21 species of Mexican cacti using explants from seedlings germinated in vitro or shoot segments of juvenile 2-3-yr-old greenhouse plants. The species propagated belong to the genera Astrophytum, Cephalocereus, Coryphantha, Echinocactus, Echinocereus, Echinofossulocactus, Ferocactus, Mammillaria, Nyctocereus, and Stenocactus. Multiple shoot formation from areoles was achieved in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with either 1 or 2 mg N-benzyladenine (BA) per 1 (4.44 or 8.87 M) or BA at 1 or 2 mg/l plus naphthaleneacetic acid at 0.1 or 1 mg/l (0.54 or 5.37 M). The requirements of growth regulators for optimal shoot proliferation, the velocity of the response, and the number of buds produced by explant were different among the genera and species studied. Rooting of the shoots generated in vitro was achieved in MS medium supplemented with indoleacetic acid at 0.5-1 mg/l (2.85-5.71 M) or indolebutyric acid at 0.5-1 mg/l (2.46-4.90 M). Finally, 70-95% of the rooted plants transferred to potting medium survived.
4293622|The development of plants capable of growing under saline conditions is one approach at utilizing saline soils that are otherwise arable. This study was designed to develop salt-tolerant yam (Dioscorea alata) plantlets, using tissue culture techniques. Salt-tolerant yam (Dioscorea alata cv. Sweet yam) plantlets were produced in vitro through repeated culturing and selection on saline media. Two hundred plantlets were subcultured on normal multiplication media (Murashige and Skoog basal media with
40981338|Evidence for the link between the surface of culture medium and abnormal shoot formation in the presence of exogenous putrescine is presented. Little is known about the role of putrescine in rapid shoot regeneration in the callus of orchids pretreated with mannitol and cadmium chloride (CdCl). Ultrastructural analysis of putrescine-altered CdCl -and mannitol-treated callus after 4 wk of culture showed the presence of numerous oil droplets, rough endoplasmic reticulum, and dictyosomes. Callus pretreated with mannitol and CdCl but without exogenous putrescine showed the presence of amyloplasts, condensed mitochondria, and active vacuole within 12 h of pretreatment. This study not only establishes a new method to achieve rapid regeneration of Cymbidium callus but also describes different types of shoots on the basis of its contact with the surface of the culture medium. Histologically, two types of cells in the apical meristem are defined. One type of cells has compromised volume which was lost upon division and is represented by small deeply stained cells of the shoots regenerated from the upper portion of the callus and is considered normal. The other type is represented by highly vacuolated and less deeply stained cells of the shoots regenerated from the lower portion of the callus in contact with the medium and is considered abnormal in this study. To avoid such abnormalities, frequent subculture of callus halves which were obtained by a median transverse cut before the rgnrants (PLBs) were converted to shoots is recommended. This new methodology was successful in achieving rapid regeneration of uniform shoots from callus.
4293439| Ceratopetalum gummiferum Sm. 'Albery's Red' (NSW Christmas Bush), a native to eastern Australia, has become an important commercial plant in both the export and domestic markets. A protocol for in vitro culture was investigated for rapid clonal propagation of selected cultivars. Murashige and Skoog medium, supplemented with various concentrations of 6-benzylaminopurine, kinetin, 6(,-dimethylalrylamino)-purine or zeatin were examined for their effects on multiplication. The most successful treatments were 2.2 M 6-benzylaminopurine and 11.6 M kinetin which increased shoot number and explant weight. Although zeatin and 6(,-dimethylalrylamino)-purine increased shoot length, both failed to increase multiplication rates. However, hyperhydricity was found to be a serious physiological disorder in tissue culture of C. gummiferum 'Albery's Red'. Rooting in vitro was also examined with indole-3-butyric acid and naphthalene acetic acid, the most successful being 4.9 mM indole-3-butyric acid. The development of an in vivo rooting protocol, however, may prove to be essential for the commercial production of this plant. 
42568879|Effects of iso-osmotic concentrations of NaCl and mannitol were studied in Mammilaria gracilis (Cactaceae) in both calli and tumors grown in vitro. In both tissues, relative growth rates were reduced under osmotic stress, which were accompanied by a decrease in both tissue water and K content. However, growth was inhibited to a lesser extent after exposure to NaCl, when accumulation of Na ions was observed. In calli, only salinity increased proline content, whereas with tumors proline accumulated after both osmotic stresses. Osmotic stresses also induced oxidative damage in both cactus tissues, although higher oxidative injury was caused by mannitol in calli and by salt in tumors. Low isoosmotic concentrations of NaCl (75 mM) and mannitol (150 mM) increased peroxidase, ascorbate peroxidase, and esterase activities, whereas elevated catalase activity was recorded only after mannitol treatment in both tissues. High osmotic stress generally decreased enzymatic activities. However, in calli, esterase activity increased in response to high salinity, whereas ascorbate peroxidase activity was enhanced after high mannitol stress. In conclusion, both in vitro-grown cactus tissues were found to be sensitive to osmotic stress caused by either mannitol or NaCl, but accumulation of Na ions in response to salt somewhat contributed to osmotic adjustment. However, more prominent oxidative damage induced by NaCl compared to mannitol in tumor could be related to ion toxicity. The mechanisms that mediate responses to salt-and mannitol-induced osmotic stresses differed and were dependent on tissue type.
4293774| A protocol has been developed for in vitro plant regeneration from cotyledonary nodes of Pterocarpus marsupium Roxb. Multiple shoots were induced from cotyledonary nodes derived from 20-d-old axenic seedlings grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 2.22-13.32 M benzyladenine (BA) or 2.32-13.93 M kinetin alone or in combination with 0.26 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The highest frequency of responding explants (85%) and maximum number of shoots per explant (9.5) were obtained on MS medium supplemented with 4.44 M BA and 0.26 M NAA after 15 wk of culture. A proliferating shoot culture was established by repeatedly subculturing the original cotyledonary nodal explant on fresh medium after each harvest of the newly formed shoots. Nearly 30% of the shoots formed roots after being transferred to half-strength MS medium containing 9.84 M indole-3-butyric acid after 25 d of culture. Fifty percent of shoots were also directly rooted as microcuttings on peat moss, soil, and compost mixture (1:1:1). About 52% plantlets rooted under ex vitro conditions were successfully acclimatized and established in pots. 
4293919|The types of auxin in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing
20461593|This study describes a protocol for plant regeneration from cultured seedling explants of Arctium lappa. Hypocotyls and cotyledons of A. lappa were induced to form callus by culturing on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2.0 mg l 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 0.5-2.0 mg l benzyladenine (BA). Formation of adventitious buds could be induced from calluses or explants directly by culturing on MS medium containing 1.0-2.0 mg l -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 0.5-2.0 mg l BA. These regenerated shoots were rooted on MS medium with 1.0 mg l indole-3-butyric acid or indole-3-acetic acid in combination with 1.0 mg l NAA. The regenerated plants acclimatized in soil were normal morphologically and in growth characters. They flowered and set seeds in the following year after acclimatization.
40981348|Mechanisms that bring about coordination of cell growth and cell division in different organisms are biological events not yet clearly revealed. In maize, insulin effector of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-target of rapamycin (TOR) signal transduction pathway in metazoan or an intrinsic maize growth factor similar to insulin has shown to regulate cell growth. This research has been undertaken to analyze the role of PI3K-TOR signal transduction pathway in maintaining coordinated regulation of cell growth and cell division in maize tissues. Results indicate that DNA synthesis as well as mitotic index increased in maize callus in vitro cultures after insulin or maize factor stimulation. Biomass and ribosomal protein synthesis also showed significant increment after this stimulation, and the cell morphology composition of the cultures drastically changed. Two proteins related to cell cycle, D-type cyclins and proliferating cell nuclear antigen, were selectively synthesized under these conditions. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis of total and polysomal RNAs revealed that this effect was mainly due to specific mobilization of the correspondent mRNAs into polysomes rather than to transcriptional activation. All these events were sensitive to rapamycin inhibition, indicating that the stimulatory effect was mediated by TOR kinase activation. It is concluded that the evolutionary conserved PI3K-TOR pathway might coordinately regulate cell growth and cell division in maize.
4293248|Perennial plant tissue cultures are established by disinfecting field or greenhouse-grown plant parts and transferring them to sterile medium in vitro. Typically, shoots harvested from field or greenhouse-grown plants are placed in water, either to force growth from dormant branches or to maintain them until ready for explanting. In spite of extreme care, 90 to 100% contamination rates in newly established in vitro cultures are not unusual. Experience has identified several routine procedures that reduce contamination, such as minimizing the amount of time a stem cutting is maintained in water before being explanted, adjusting pH of the medium to a more acidic condition, and using pH neutralized bleach to sterilize instruments during subculture. Other methods to reduce contamination include establishing field-grown plants in a green-house where inoculum levels can be better controlled, trellising vining plants to get them off the soil, avoiding wetting foliage, and selecting vigorous expiants that are not in contact with soil.
42568797|Maturation of somatic embryos of Anthurium andraeanum cv. Eidibel from embryogenic callus was evaluated. Following induction of embryogenic calli from nodal segments, tissues were transferred to 125-mL Erlenmeyer flasks containing 25 mL liquid medium, with 0, 4.52, or 9.05 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 0, 0.47, or 2.32 M kinetin. Callus cultures were maintained in a dark growth room at 252C. At 45 d, the mass of embryogenic calli, number of primary and secondary somatic embryos, and percentage browning were evaluated. Nonparametric tests were used to evaluate color, texture, and somatic embryo development. The highest yield of somatic embryos was in the medium with 0.47 M kinetin. Calli were friable, with a lower yield of secondary somatic embryos, and have minimal browning. Histology revealed polar globular somatic embryos and mature somatic embryos with defined apical and root meristematic zones, axillary buds, and primary leaves. These are important features for converting somatic embryos into plantlets.
20461676|Using immature embryos and cotyledons as explants, a successful immature embryo culture and efficient plant direct regeneration via organogenesis from cotyledons, which showed different patterns, was established for the "Xuemei" cultivar of Prunus mume. For immature embryo culture, high frequency plantlet forming (89.5%) from embryo axis was obtained on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 13.2 M 6-benzyladenine (BA) and 2.7 M 1-naphthaleneacetic (NAA). At the same time, shoots direct differentiation from cotyledons with the embryo axis development was also observed on MS medium containing 2.2 M BA together with different combinations of NAA (2.7, 5.4 M) and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) (0, 2.5, 5.0 M). Better results were achieved when embryo axes were removed from cotyledons and cultured on MS medium supplement with 13.2 M BA, 2.7 M NAA (72.9%) or 2.2 M BA, 2.2 M thidiazuron (TDZ), and 2.7 M NAA (84.2%), respectively. Regenerated shoots were successfully rooted on MS or Woody Plant medium (WPM) supplemented with 2.5-5.0 M IBA. The effect of embryo axes, BA and TDZ, on cotyledons' regeneration were investigated in detail. The rooted plantlets were transferred to soil successfully with normal morphology.
4293446| Previous results have shown that some proteins secreted in the culture medium are involved with the formation of embryogenic cells and can modify somatic embryo differentiation. Undifferentiated cell suspensions grown in the presence of 13 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and obtained from embryogenic and non-embryogenic callus were used to study these events in sugarcane plants (cv. PR-62258). The cell suspension growth curves were determined and soluble proteins were extracted from embryogenic and non-embryogenic callus and culture medium from cell suspensions. In embryogenic callus we detected 1.43 times more protein than in non-embryogenic callus and the electrophoretic protein patterns show specific polypeptides for both callus types. In embryogenic callus we detected a cluster of four polypeptides in the range of 38-44 kDa and another polypeptide of 23 kDa that were not observed in non-embryogenic callus. In nonembryogenic callus there is a 35-kDa polypeptide that was not detected in embryogenic callus. In the case of extracellular proteins, the medium from embryogenic cell suspensions contained four polypeptides of 41, 38, 34 and 28 kDa that were slightly detected in the medium from non-embryogenic cell cultures; we also detected a band at 15 kDa that could not be observed in the medium from non-embryogenic cell suspensions. These results suggest that the development of embryogenic callus and cell suspensions is related to the type and amount of intracellular proteins in the callus cells and to the secreted proteins from these cells into the medium. 
20064845|Production of somatic embryos in suspension cultures of Dactylis glomerata L. (orchardgrass) was stimulated by the addition of various compounds containing reduced nitrogen to Schenk and Hildebrandt (SH) basal medium. Equimolar concentrations of combinations of proline and either serine or threonine supported embryogenesis, whereas, these amino acids individually did not promote embryogenesis. SH medium supplemented with 6 to 25 mM ammonium ion or Murashige-Skoog basal medium also supported embryo production. Ammonium ion did not act synergistically with either proline or serine to enhance embryogenesis. Embryos produced in media containing amino acid combinations were formed singly, did not exhibit secondary embryogenesis, and had significantly higher conversion rates compared to those formed in either SH medium supplemented with ammonium ion only or in combination with amino acids.
20541037|With rapid economic development, energy consumption in China has tripled in the past 20 yr, exceeding 2.4 billion tons of standard coal in 2006. The search for new green energy as substitutes for the nonrenewable energy resources has become an urgent task. China has a variety of climates and is rich in potential biofuel plant species. Corn and cassava are used as the main raw materials for bioethanol production in China. At the end of 2005, bioethanol productivity had increased to 1.02 million tons produced by four companies, and bioethanol-blended petrol accounted for 20% of the total petrol consumption in China. According to the Mid- and Long-term Development Plan for Renewable Energy, the consumption of biodiesel in China will reach 0.2 million tons in 2010 and 2.0 million tons in 2020. This review is intended to provide an introduction to the distribution and development of biofuel crops and biofuel industry in China.
20540989|Renealmia mexicana (Klotzsch ex. Petersen) is a tropical plant found in southern Mxico with an ornamental value and a potential source of curcuminoids. Its distribution in Chiapas has decreased because of deforestation and low propagation and germination rate, so a protocol for in vitro propagation was developed. An orthogonal experimental design of L (3) in triplicate was used to investigate the effect of 6-benzyl adenine (BA), indole butyric acid (IBA), silver nitrate (AgNO), and sucrose on shoot, root, and leaf development of plantlets grown in vitro. Plantlets with well-developed shoots and roots were transferred to pots containing a mixture of peat moss and agrolite for hardening before transfer to soil. The Murashige and Skoog (Physiol. Plant. 15:473-497, 1962) mineral medium (MS) supplemented with 4.4 M BA, 2.5 M IBA, 11.7 M $\text{AgNO}_{3\text{y}}$ and 5.5% (w/v) sucrose gave most shoots, 8.9 M BA, 2.5 M IBA, 17.7 M AgNO and 5.5% (w/v) sucrose most roots, and 8.9 M BA, 4.9 M IBA, 11.7 M AgNO and 3.0% (w/v) sucrose most leaves, although other combinations were statistically equivalent in each case. Sucrose was the factor that most explained the variation in the promotion of shoots, roots, and leaves. The protocol developed resulted in up to 100% survival when plantlets were transferred to soil using AgNO, confirming that hardening of plantlets in vitro using hormonal stimulation was a suitable strategy to improve acclimatization.
4293822|Plantlets propagated in temporary immersion bioreactors (TIB) have better performance than those propagated by conventional methods such as micropropagation. This is as a result of a better handling of the in vitro atmosphere and the nutrition. The object of this study was to further improve the cultivation conditions by introducing photomixotrophism as an intermediate link of photoautotrophic growth during ex vitro acclimatization. For this purpose the effects of light were evaluated by different parameters such as photosynthetic photon flux density (PPF), sucrose concentration, and CO
20461614|Callus induction and regeneration studies were carried out on a medicinal fern, Drynaria quercifolia native to Asian countries. It is a seasonal fern that regenerates only during the monsoons. Callus was induced on Knop's (1865) medium supplemented with 20 g l sucrose, 8 g l agar, and either 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4,5-T), 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid (picloram), or indole-3-butyric acid at different concentrations. Morphogenetic callus obtained on 5 mg l 2,4,5-T was subcultured onto solid and liquid media (shaken flask and discontinuously stirred bioreactor cultures) for callus proliferation and regeneration studies. A significant amount of sporophyte regeneration was observed on solid medium containing 10 mg l 6-(,-dimethylallylamino) purine (2iP). Sporophyte regeneration from callus followed an atypical pattern of development. Leafy structures of single-cell thickness with a microrhizome were formed as sporophyte initials. Prolonged cultures of these structures resulted in the formation of juvenile sporophytes in vitro. The use of liquid media resulted in increased biomass in culture. The present study is the first report of a successful system for callus production and regeneration of sporophytes from leafy structures in ferns. The method can be successfully applied for generation of biomass of D. quercifolia, throughout the year.
40663785|Micropropagation of Embelia ribes was achieved through proliferation of axillary shoots obtained from mature plants. Nodal shoot segments, collected March-May, exhibited high-frequency (75%) shoot initiation when cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with thidiazuron (TDZ) at 1.13 M and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) at 0.49 M. Subculture of sprouted shoots from the original explants on medium containing TDZ (1.13 and 0.45 M) during the first and second subcultures was found essential for further shoot proliferation, while inhibition of shoot elongation by TDZ could be overcome by transferring shoot cultures onto MS medium containing 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP; 11.10 M) for the third subculture. Treating the expiants with an antioxidant mixture of 568 M ascorbic acid, 119 M citric acid, and 307 M glutathione prior to inoculation, coupled with subculture at 2-wk intervals onto fresh medium, both helped to reduce browning of the expiants and facilitated production of five to six shoots/explant. MS medium supplemented with BAP (4.44 M) and IBA (0.49 M) induced shoot multiplication, producing five to six shoots/expiant with a shoot length of 3 to 4 cm over a 4-wk culture period. Shoots of 3 to 4 cm in length exhibited 100% rooting within 4 wk after transfer to media containing half the nutrient salt concentration of MS medium with 3.69 M IBA. Ex vitro rooting in the greenhouse from the in vitro shoots treated with 4.93 M IBA for 30 min exhibited 95% rooting in soilrite medium in a 4-wk period. About 85% of micropropagated plants were established successfully in root trainers. Three-month-old, hardened plants could further be successfully established in the field. In 1 yr, by using the above protocol, 3,200 plants could be produced from a single shoot and 2,700 could be established in the field.
4293381|Hairy root cultures of Panax ginseng, established after the infection of root sections with Agrobacterium rhizogenes KCTC 2703, were cultured in phytohormone-free Murashige and Skoog (MS) liquid medium containing different concentrations of jasmonic acid and some other elicitors, in order to promote ginsenoside accumulation. Jasmonic acid in the range
20461559|Plants were successfully regenerated via somatic embryos from 3-yr-old cell suspension cultures of Medicago truncatula Gaertn. cv. Jemalong line M9-10a. The cultures were originally initiated from callus induced in well-expanded leaflets of 30 d in vitro-grown plants. Suspension cultures were established in stirred-liquid Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal salts and vitamins supplemented with 2.3 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 2.3 M kinetin (Kin) and subcultured weekly. Somatic embryogenesis induction step was conducted in liquid MS medium containing 0.45 M 2,4-D and 0.91 M zeatin (Zea), during 1, 2, and 3 wk after subculture. Induced and non-induced cultures were transferred to solid embryo proliferation medium [EPM-MS basal salts and vitamins solidified with 0.2% (w/v) gelrite]. Somatic embryos developed until the late torpedo/dicotyledonary stages. We found that the best condition for the development of somatic embryos was achieved when suspension cultures were not subjected to the induction step. Induction of 1 and 2 wk led to a decrease in the recovery of somatic embryos and the 3-wk treatment resulted in no differentiation of somatic embryos. Plant regeneration was obtained in all conditions (except for 3 wk induction) when embryos were transferred to an embryo conversion medium [ECM, similar to EPM but solidified with 0.7% (w/v) agar]. Embryo conversion rates were 54.5  1.6, 52.5  18.5, and 41.6  8.4% for 0, 1, and 2 wk induction treatments, respectively. These plants were successfully transferred to the greenhouse where they matured and produced seeds.
4293472|This report outlines the development of optimized particle inflow gun (PIG) parameters for producing transgenic sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench). Both transient and stable expression were examined when determining these parameters. The uidA reporter gene (GUS) encoding
4293411| Rate of enlargement of epidermal cells from soybean, when measured at intervals of 1 min using a light microscope equipped with a video measurement system, oscillated with a period length of about 24 min. This oscillation parallels the 24-min periodicity observed for the oxidation of NADH by the external plasma membrane NADH oxidase. The increase in length was not only non-linear, but intervals of rapid increase in area alternated with intervals of rapid decrease in area. The length of the period was temperature compensated, and was approximately the same when measured at 14, 24 and 34C even though the rate of cell enlargement varied over this same range of temperatures. These observations represent the first demonstration of an oscillatory growth behavior correlated with a biochemical activity where the period length of both is independent of temperature (temperature compensated) as is the hallmark of clock-related biological phenomena. 
4293544| We studied the relationship between root differentiation and the accumulation of essential oils in Angelica archangelica in in vitro cultures and in the intact plant. Root regeneration was obtained using stem and leaf explants subjected to treatment with the auxins indole-3-butyric acid, indole-3-acetic acid and -naphthaleneacetic acid. In both stem and leaf explants, treatment with indole-3-butyric acid induced the highest rhizogenic response in terms of both percentage of explants with roots and number of roots per explant. Independently of hormonal treatment, stem explants produced a higher average number of roots per explant. Root meristemoids were already visible at day 7 of culture in the treatments with indole-3-butyric acid and indole-3-acetic acid; they were formed directly by cambial-cell division. In vitro-regenerated roots retained primary root structure and differentiated only two primary ephemeral ducts in the pericycle; no accumulation of essential oils was detected. Same-size roots taken from the intact plant showed secondary structure and essential-oil accumulation. The results of this study suggest that the synthesis and accumulation of essential oils in Angelica archangelica is closely linked to the differentiation of secondary secretory ducts. 
20064925|A nutrient-mist bioreactor was designed that separates the nutrient medium from the electronic components via an acoustic window. This eliminates compromising culture sterility when repairing mechanical failures common with commercially available mist reactors. The experimental mist bioreactor is low cost and can be assembled in any laboratory. Toxicity tests of several potential acoustically transparent materials are included. Details of the construction procedures include methods for casting the window. Growth data using the newly designed nutrient mist bioreactor are compared to data from a commercial mist reactor, shake flasks, and Gelrite cultures. Artemisia annua hairy roots and Nephrolepis exaltata shoot cultures showed growth comparable to the conventional tissue culture methods.
4293093| Clonal propagation of Pinus pinea L. was achieved by organogenesis on cotyledon expiants and the influence of several factors on adventitious bud production and development was investigated. Gupta and Durzan (DCR) medium with benzyladenine (5 M) induced higher bud production. Bud development and shoot elongation required subcultures on medium with activated charcoal. Rooting was obtained after 10 d culture on medium containing IBA (10 M). 
4293177|In this paper we describe a simple and efficient DNA extraction protocol for Fragaria species, a highly recalcitrant genus due to the large amount of polyphenols and polymeric carbohydrates present in strawberry tissues. The protocol yields a high quality DNA that can be amplified by polymerase chain reaction and digested with restriction endonucleases.
20461647|The primary utilization of carbohydrates by cell suspension cultures of Rudgea jasminoides, a native woody Rubiaceae from tropical forests, was investigated. Sucrose, glucose + fructose, glucose, or fructose were supplied as carbon sources. The growth curves of R. jasminoides cultured in glucose + fructose, glucose, or fructose showed similar patterns to that observed when sucrose was supplied to the cells, except that an increase in dry mass was observed at the beginning of the stationary growth phase in the media containing only one monosaccharide. The increase in hexose levels in the media during the early stages of the cultures indicated extracellular hydrolysis of sucrose, which was further supported by the increase in the activity of acid invertase bound to the cell wall. Glucose was preferentially taken up, whereas uptake of fructose was delayed until glucose was nearly depleted from the medium. Measurements of intracellular sucrose content and cytoplasmatic and vacuolar invertases indicate that the enzymatic activity seems to be correlated with a decrease in the hexose flux into the cells of R. jasminoides. Our results indicate that the behavior of cell suspension cultures of R. jasminoides regarding sugar utilization seems to be similar to other dicotyledonous undifferentiated cell suspension cultures.
40793219|We describe here a simple and efficient system of soybean (Glycine max L. Merrill) regeneration through direct somatic embryogenesis by using immature embryonic shoot tips (IEST) as expiants. The cultivar Kaohsiung 10 (cv.K10) used in this study did not show embryognie response either from mature seed-derived expiants (cotyledon, embryonic tip, leaf, shoot and root) or immature cotyledons. However, it showed a high percentage (55.8%) of somatic embryo (SEm) formation from the IEST excised 2-3 wk after flowering, thus indicating the crucial roles of type and age of expiants. The IEST put forth primary SEm after 2 mo of culturing on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 6% sucrose, 164.8M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 5 mM asparagine and 684 M glutamine. Subsequently, secondary SEm were developed 1 mo after culturing on MS medium containing 123.6M 2,4-D and 3% sucrose. Cotyledonary embryos were induced on MS medium supplemented with 0.5% activated charcoal after 1 mo. The embryos were desiccated for 72-96 h on sterile Petri dishes and regenerated on hormone-free MS medium. Plantlets with well-developed shoots and roots were obtained within 5-6 mo of culturing of IEST. The SEm-derived plants were morphologically normal and fertile. Various parameters thought to be responsible for efficient regeneration of soybean through somatic embryogenesis are discussed. To our knowledge, this is the first report to employ IEST as expiants for successful direct somatic embryogenesis in soybean.
20461603|Using the system for genetic transformation and transgenic plant regeneration via somatic embryogenesis (SE) of Lycium barbarum established in this laboratory, this study reports the optimization of the factors affecting the efficiency of transformation, including pre-culture period, leaf explant source, use of acetosyringone, strains and density of Agrobacterium, and temperature of co-cultivation. The optimized transformation protocol for L. barbarum included pre-culture of leaf explants from 3-wk-old seedlings for 3 d on the medium for callus induction followed by inoculation with Agrobacterium strain EHA101 (pIG121Hm), co-cultivation for 3 d at 24C, and transfer to the selection regeneration medium with 50 mg l kanamycin (Kan). Using this protocol, 65% L. barbarum explants gave rise to Kan-resistant and GUS-positive calli. In addition, the expression of introduced transgene (npt II) in clonal progeny was verified by formation of calli and somatic embryos from leaf segments of nine transgenic plants grown on the Kan-containing medium. All explants formed calli at 50 mg l Kan and seven out of nine transgenic plants were found to possess callus-forming capacity even at 100 mg l Kan. These calli also possessed higher SE potential on SE medium supplemented with 25 mg l Kan.
4293011|Recent studies on de novo meristemoid induction and subsequent shoot organogenesis in vitro in seed plants are reviewed, largely from a developmental perspective. Emphasis is placed on experimental studies which explore the timing and extent of relatively "cryptic" developmental states and in particular, shoot determination. This state has been measured in some relative detail in explants of both Convolvulus and in cotyledons of white pine. Precise evidence in vitro is generally lacking, although promeristemoid precursors of meristemoids have been found recently in conifers. No clear picture of gene expression associated with meristemoid induction or shoot apical meristem formation is possible as yet. The data on developmental states suggest that gene expression before overt organogenesis may well be more complex than previously imagined.
4293526|The Arabidopsis ecotypes Columbia (Col), Landsberg erecta (Ler), Cape Verde Island (Cvi) and Wassilewskija (WS) have been tested for their regeneration response in vitro. A characteristic morphology of leaf-derived calluses has been found for each ecotype. Differences in regeneration ability have been detected depending on the plant strain, the explant source and on the culture medium composition. In CIR/SIR media, which contain
23254892|The influence of low-temperature treatment of ovaries on the isolation and subsequent culture of two-celled proembryo in vitro was explored in tobacco. The efficiency of isolation of two-celled proembryos was significantly improved, by an average of 23.47 % after treatment of ovaries at 4C for 524 h. Cell viability and polarity of two-celled proembryos, as assessed by organelle distribution, growth pattern, and cell wall component distribution, were all well maintained after cold treatment. Furthermore, in vitro cultivated two-celled proembryos divided normally, with timing paralleling that of two-celled proembryos isolated from fresh ovaries. Unexpectedly, the division frequency of two-celled proembryos was significantly improved by cold treatment. These results demonstrate that low-temperature treatment of tobacco ovaries was beneficial for two-celled proembryo manipulation in vitro, by not only improving isolation efficiency but also by promoting cell division and improving the potential for further cultivation.
4293462|2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) resistant plants of transgenic cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) were produced using Agrobacterium tumefaciens containing a plasmid carrying the neomycin phosphotransferase II (npt II) and 2,4-D monooxygenase (tfd A) genes. An in vitro assay was performed to determine the sensitivity of seed germination, and the growth of seedlings of transgenic and non-transgenic cotton to various concentrations of kanamycin and 2,4-D. The results indicated that kanamycin caused the cotyledons of non-transgenic plants to turn white, but transgenic plants grew normally. Seed germination and seedling growth of non-transgenic plants were strongly inhibited by 2,4-D, but only slightly for transgenic plants. Transgenic plants and non-transgenic plants can be clearly distinguished by the use of
40793215|Thevetia peruviana is a small tree that produces several compounds with pharmaceutical application, among which peruvoside could be highlighted. However, these compounds are produced in low concentration in the plant, making it important to develop strategies such as plant cell culture and elicitation to obtain higher quantities of the desired product. In this work, cell suspension cultures of T. peruviana were established in four different culture media: Murashige-Skoog (MS), half Murashige-Skoog (half MS), Schenk-Hildebrandt (SH), and Gamborg (B5) to study their effect on cell growth. Cell growth kinetics were studied in SH medium, and the extracellular peruvoside production during the culture time was determined. The best culture medium for the establishment of cell suspension cultures was MS with a growth index of 3.17  0.2 g g inoculum. The cell growth kinetics showed the four characteristic growth phases of a cell culture (lag, exponential, stationary, and death), and during none of these phases was it possible to observe peruvoside production. The elicitor effect of methyljasmonate (MeJ) was studied in cell suspension cultures established in SH medium. The effect of MeJ concentration and the time in which it should be applied were determined. The best results were obtained at a concentration of 100 mg 1 of MeJ applied at the beginning of the culture, which induced a peruvoside production of 8.93 mg 1 medium. The current results are the first report of an in vitro peruvoside production system.
24596333|The efficiency of micropropagation of double-node shoots of hop (Humulus lupulus L. cv. Tettnanger) was evaluated using semi-solid and liquid culture medium in RITA temporary immersion bioreactors. The highest fresh and dry weight of shoots, average number of shoots, and multiplication rate were obtained using the RITA system, whereas the longest shoots were obtained on semi-solid medium. Moreover, shoot length was affected significantly by the inoculum density of double-node shoots in RITA vessels. In addition, the RITA bioreactors were suitable for shoot induction from organogenic calli. The percentage of shoot induction and the shoot fresh and dry weights were significantly higher in the RITA system than in semi-solid medium. The age of organogenic calli and inoculum density significantly affected the induction of shoots from organogenic calli. The optimum conditions for DNA delivery into hop organogenic calli using the biolistic particle delivery system were also determined. Organogenic calli were bombarded with the plasmid pSR5-2 (gusA and nptII) varying helium pressure (900, 1,100, or 1,350 psi) and target distance (6, 9, or 12 cm). The highest gusA transient activity was obtained using a pressure of 900 psi and a target distance of 6 cm. For stable genetic transformation, 3-wk-old organogenic calli were bombarded with the plasmid pCAMBIA1303 (gusA, mgfp5, and hpt) using these optimum conditions. Stable gusA expression was observed in organogenic calli and shoots after 4 wk of culture on selection medium containing 2.5 mg 1 hygromycin. The presence of the mgfp5 gene in the hop genome was confirmed by PCR.
20064988|The most important advantage of cloning conifers by somatic embryogenesis (SE) is that the embryogenic tissue can be cryopreserved without changing its genetic make-up and without loss of juvenility. This offers an opportunity to develop high-value clonal varieties by defrosting and repropagating cryopreserved clones after genetic testing has shown which clones are the best performers. In the current absence of cost-effective automated embling handling systems or artificial seed technology, the deployment of the high-value clones in clonal forestry can be achieved inexpensively by mass serial rooting of cuttings from juvenile donor plants produced from cryopreserved embryogenic cultures. In a genetic analysis of the SE process in white spruce Picea glauca, we found that induction of SE was under strong genetic control. Although the dominance variance diminished rapidly as the zygotic embryos matured, the additive variance remained relatively large during the induction phase. The genetic effects in the subsequent maturation and germination phases were less strong. Furthermore, genetic variation at the different phases of SE was not correlated. Thus, it is the induction phase of SE that can be manipulated by breeding. Most of the embryogenic clones were cryopreserved easily, i.e., there was no apparent genotype effect. To determine stability of cryopreserved clones, a set of 12 clones was retrieved after 3 and 4 years, respectively, from cryopreservation and repropagated by SE. An assessment of morphological in vitro development and ex vitro survival and growth characters demonstrated general stability of the cryopreserved clones of white spruce.
4293068|The body and closure device of a tissue culture container are of paramount importance in the determination of the headspace composition, and influence plant growth and development. In fact, the container determines gas exchange with the environment quantitatively and qualitatively. When exchange occurred via permeability, we demonstrated that a properly controlled container atmosphere (CA) cannot be obtained because accumulation and/or depletion of gases occur; modified atmosphere (MA) is then a better term. Our experiments also gave information about a) gas exchange mechanisms and b) the influence of headspace composition on plant growth and development. These are prerequisites for the understanding and final control of the headspace composition. Three containers, differing in their gas exchange mechanism, were evaluated. This paper also considered that even under "controlled" culture conditions (container, environment, explant weight, etc.) variations from container to container are registered, probably due to the explant itself.
20461560|Successful lettuce (Lactuca sativa L.) breeding requires assessment, selection, and rescue of germplasm from field-grown plants during a limited period of time. Tissue culture methods have proved successful in rescuing selected lettuce genotypes and producing seeds in a disease-free environment. The present study was conducted to determine the response of the apical and axillary shoot-tips of lettuce to storage duration prior to in vitro culture. The study focused on core length as a source of variation between maternal explants. Advanced maturity was obtained by applying an agrotextile row cover over lettuce plants. Apical and axillary buds were derived from covered lettuce with long cores (46  0.8 mm) and from non-covered lettuce with short cores (30  0.7 mm). The cores were stored at 2C for 0, 2, or 13 d. Apical and axillary shoot-tips were removed from the cores and placed onto MS medium. After 3 mo. of growth culture, twice as many leaf primordia (6.6 leaves) developed from the apical shoot-tip as compared to those from the axillary shoot-tip (3.0 leaves). More shoot-tips survived when excised from short cores (83%) than when excised from long cores (71%). Root formation was affected by the source of shoot-tip and the size of donor explant. Three times more explants from apical shoot-tips and short cores rooted (71%) than did explants from apical shoot-tips and long cores (27%) or explants from axillary shoot-tips (long cores, 14%; short cores, 19%). Storage of cores for up to 13 d had no effect on the survival rate of shoot-tips, nor on shoot or root formation, suggesting that cores of lettuce plants can be stored prior to in vitro micropropagation without significant loss of regeneration efficiency.
25623022|Including lipoic acid (LA) in culture media during Agrobacterium transformation processes of four crop species has significantly improved the transformation methods of the crops, even for previously recalcitrant genotypes. Plant transformation efficiency of soybean was significantly increased from 0.6% to 3.7% and tomato from 29.8% to 87.0%. Transformation efficiency was doubled from 2.8% to 5.7% in wheat. The frequency of glyphosateresistant embryos had a significant increase from 41.4% to 61.2% in cotton. Regeneration of non-transgenic shoots under selection ("shoot escapes") was significantly reduced in tomato from 91.5% to 46.2% while in soybean from 92.0% to 72.0% under optimal conditions. This study also demonstrated that the increase of transformation efficiency in tomato was accompanied by as much as a significant 2-fold reduction in severity of browning of Agrobacterium-infected plant tissues and up to a significant 3-fold increase in the percentage of explants with a high level of transient gene expression. LA application in plant transformation has enabled the resolution of three common problems in plant transformation: browning or necrosis of the transformed cells or tissues, difficulty in regenerating transformed cells or tissues, and shoot escapes, which severely limit the number of transgenic plants that can be regenerated.
4293293|Cell suspension cultures of Datura innoxia were incubated in the presence of the nitro-substituted explosives 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT), l,3,5-trinitro-l,3,5-triazine (RDX), and l,3,5,7-tetranitro-l,3,5,7-tetraazocyclooctane (HMX). Cellular tolerance levels and TNT biotransformation kinetics were examined. Tolerance to TNT varied as cell suspensions aged. Concentrations of RDX or HMX in excess of reported solubility limits produced no observable changes in cell viability. GC/MS analysis of TNT-treated cell media and cell lysates revealed rapid removal of TNT. Within 12 h, less than 1% of the initial TNT remained in the growth medium. Aminodinitrotoluenes (ADNTs), known metabolites of TNT, accumulated transiently in cell lysates, and to a lesser extent in cell media. ADNT concentrations started to decrease after 3 h. After 12 h, less than 5% of the initial TNT could be detected as ADNT. Total ADNTs never exceeded 26% of initial TNT, suggesting that additional biotransformation steps also occurred. No other nitroaromatics were detected. A pseudo-first order rate constant for TNT clearance was calculated,
20461578|The bromeliad Tillandsia eizii is a striking species with large, colorful, and persistent inflorescences that can reach 1 m in length. The value of this plant as an ornamental and its importance in cultural and religious activities has led to its over-collection in the wild. Clonal propagation via tissue culture may be a means to repopulate native stands while meeting the demands for this species as an ornamental and ceremonial plant. Adventitious bud proliferation was induced from axenically germinated seedling material. Parameters evaluated were the age of explant material at the time of transfer onto bud-induction medium, the concentration of plant growth regulators, and the period of exposure to induction medium. Light and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) established the origin and development of buds. Twelve-week-old seedling explants rapidly initiated adventitious buds after a 30-d induction period on shoot-initiation medium. Adventitious buds were induced in 40% of the explants placed on media with 2 mg l 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) (8.88 M) plus 0.1 mg l -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) (0.54 M) with some cultures becoming highly prolific after repeated subculture. Shoots elongated in proliferating cultures, and plants were successfully acclimatized and planted into the greenhouse. The results indicate that tissue culture may be used as a means to propagate this epiphytic bromeliad species, which is being seriously affected by deforestation and habitat destruction. In addition, adventitious bud proliferation can provide a means to propagate superior genotypes.
4293628|The hormone-stimulated and growth-related cell surface hydroquinone (NADH) oxidase activity of etiolated hypocotyls of soybeans oscillates with a period of about 24 min or 60 times per 24-h day. Plasma membranes of soybean hypocotyls contain two such NADH oxidase activities that have been resolved by purification on concanavalin A columns. One in the apparent molecular weight range of 14-17kDa is stimulated by the auxin herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). The other is larger and unaffected by 2,4-D. The 2,4-D-stimulated activity absolutely requires 2,4-D for activity and exhibits a period length of about 24 min. Also exhibiting 24-min oscillations is the rate of cell enlargement induced by the addition of 2,4-D or the natural auxin indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Immediately following 2,4-D or IAA addition, a very complex pattern of oscillations is frequently observed. However, after several hours a dominant 24-min period emerges at the expense of the constitutive activity. A recruitment process analogous to that exhibited by prions is postulated to explain this behavior.
4293887| Sugarcane (Saccharum spp. hybrid cv. CP 84-1198) seeds were germinated on modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium alone or supplemented with 2.3, 4.5, 11.3, 22.5, and 45.0 M thidiazuron (TDZ), or 4.5, 13.6, 22.6, and 45.0 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), or 4.1, 12.4, 20.7, and 41.3 M picloram. Both auxins delayed seed germination by approximately 5 d. Maximum germination was observed on MS medium supplemented with 45.0 M TDZ. Callus induction occurred for seed germinated on 2,4-D and picloram-containing media, but not on TDZ medium. The greatest amount of callus (554  198 mg per seed) was produced on 4.1 M picloram. For shoot initiation, calluses were transferred to MS medium alone or supplemented with 2.5 M TDZ. The highest number of shoots was recorded on TDZ medium from callus that had been obtained originally from media containing either 4.1 or 12.4 M picloram or 13.6 M 2,4-D (~500). All shoots developed roots and grew to maturity on medium with 24.6 M indolebutyric acid. 
20065024|Little is known about the genetic basis and molecular mechanisms regulating female gametogenesis in flowering plants. In many species sexuality is replaced by apomixis, a method of asexual reproduction that circumvents female meiosis and fertilization, and culminates in the formation of clonal seeds. Using a new generation of transposon-based insertional mutagenesis strategies and their resulting molecular tools, we are investigating how female meiotically derived cells (megaspores) acquire their identity. We are also determining their function and interactions, and attempting the induction of apomixis initiation in the ovule of Arabidopsis. This basic knowledge will contribute to establish the transfer of apomixis into sexual crops, a major challenge faced by plant biotechnology. The introduction of apomixis as a reproductive alternative could represent a unique opportunity to simplify breeding schemes and genetically perpetuate any desired heterozygous genotype, including hybrids.
4293871| Applications of biotechnological tools, including genetic modification aimed at combating Dutch elm disease, are described. In vitro shoot cultures of Ulmus procera (English elm) SR4, U. glabra, U. americana, and U. parvifolia have been established and used as source material in genetic transfer experiments. Biolistic transformation of U. procera leaf material with cauliflower mosaic virus 35S-promoted constructs resulted in transient gusA (-glucuronidase) expression. Subsequently, regenerant U. procera have been obtained following transformation of stem pieces with wild-type tumor-inducing or root-inducing plasmid-harboring Agrobacterium strains. Genetically modified elms expressing gusA, gfp (green fluorescent protein), and nptII (neomycin phosphotransferase II) genes have been produced using disarmed vectors. Regenerant English elms have been produced following transformation with anti-fungal genes, transferred to soil, and are currently being tested for their ability to resist the Dutch elm disease fungus Ophiostoma novo-ulmi. Future prospects for fighting this fungal wilt using biotechnological tools are discussed. 
20461755|Plant cell culture provides an alternative means for producing secondary metabolites. In this study, experiments were carried out to study the impact of several parameters, independently and in combination, on the stimulation of menthol production in the cell suspension culture of Mentha piperita. Callus was obtained from leaf segments of in vitro grown plantlets on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 0.2 mg l of 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid to initiate cell suspension culture. This culture was maintained in half-strength MS medium supplemented with 0.2 mg l of 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid at 15 d interval and used for further studies. Precursor feeding alone, i.e., menthone, at 35 M concentration showed slightly improved productivity. -Cyclodextrin alone at 60 M concentration and in combination with menthone feeding at 35 M increased menthol yield up to 92 and 110 mg l in comparison to 77 mg l of control culture. Synergistic potentiation effect of menthone feeding at 35 M and -cyclodextrin at 60 M treatment followed by in situ adsorption with RP-8 also showed potential stimulation of menthol production in M. piperita cell culture. Fungal elicitor treatment showed enhanced production level up to 140.8 mg l in comparison to that of control. Further studies were carried out with the establishment of Agrobacterium tumefaciens (Ach5) gall-mediated calli, and consequently, cell suspension culture and results showed the significant enhancement of menthol yield up to 278 mg l.
42568717|Sandalwood (Santalum album L.) is a small evergreen, hemi-parasitic tree having more than 18 woody species that are mostly distributed in South Asia, Australia, and Hawaii. Its economical importance is derived from its heartwood oil, but its difficult propagation makes conservation essential. The percentage of seed germination is poor and germination time exceeds 12 mo. Vegetative propagation can be accomplished by grafting, air layering, or with root suckers, but the production of clones is inefficient and time consuming. In this study, efficient plant regeneration was achieved via indirect organognesis from callus cultures derived from leaf tissues of S. album. Callus induction was induced when leaf expiants were cultured on woody plant media (WPM) supplemented with either thidiazuron (TDZ) or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. The highest callus frequency (100%) was obtained when leaf tissue was cultured in the medium with 0.4 mgl TDZ. Fresh weight (141.92 mg) and dry weight (47 mg) of leaf-derived callus were highest in the medium supplemented with 0.8 mgl TDZ. The WPM medium supplemented with 2.5 mgl BA+0.4 mgl NAA was the most effective, producing the highest number of shoot buds (24.6) per callus. The highest number of shoots per expiant (20.67) and shoot length (5.17 cm) were observed in media supplemented with 5.0 mgl BA and 3.0 mgl Kn, respectively. Plantlets were rooted on WPM medium with different concentrations of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). The highest rooting percentage (91.67) and survival were achieved using WPM media with 1.5 mgl IBA. All plantlets survived acclimatization, producing healthy plants in the greenhouse. The current investigation showed efficient in vitro regeneration capabilities of S. album from leaf explants.
41432446|Soybean somatic embryos were developed as a model for investigating the developmental relationships of lipid biosynthesis and accumulation in this important crop. Batch cultures of embryos grown for 8 wk in liquid culture medium exhibited typical sigmoidal growth kinetics as they passed through characteristic globular, heart, torpedo, and cotyledon stages. Exponential growth occurred for the first 4 wk in culture with net growth terminating when total embryo fresh weight per culture flask reached a maximum of 4-4.5 g at 6 wk. This was followed by a slight decrease in embryo fresh weight (FW) and the onset of apparent tissue senescence as judged by yellowing and browning of embryos. On a FW basis, embryos accumulated up to 4% protein, 2.5% soluble sugars, 1.9% starch, and 1.5% lipid relatively early in development. Levels decreased to 0.8% protein, 0.5% soluble sugars, 0.03% starch, and 0.09% lipid at the end of the culture period. On a mass percent basis, lipid extracts were comprised of approximately 80-90% polar lipid early in embryo development. This shifted to 56% storage lipid (triacylglycerol) and 44% polar lipid after 4-5 wk in culture and then reverted back to 91% and 9% polar vs. storage lipid, respectively, by the end of the 8-wk culture period. On the average, polar and storage lipid fractions were comprised of 24% palmitic acid, 7% stearic acid, 8% oleic acid, 36% linoleic acid, and 26% linolenic acid. However, the amounts of linoleic and linolenic acids declined sharply during embryo senescence at the end of the culture period, with corresponding increases in the combined amounts of palmitic and stearic acids. This is the first report that documents the progress of storage reserve accumulation in soybean somatic embryos in relation to their continuous growth in liquid batch cultures.
4293529|Somatic meiosis-like reduction was observed in some cells of the embryogenic callus of Arabidopsis thaliana. Two types were identified. One type was somatic chromosome reductional grouping, in which the chromosomes in a cell were separated directly at either prophase or metaphase. Chromosome reductional grouping happened more frequently in polyploid cells, and the morphology of the chromosomes did not show the role of the spindle fibers. The other type was somatic meiosis which was analogous to the process of gametogenesis, characterized by the pairing and synapsis of homologous chromosomes. The roles of somatic meiosis-like reduction in somatic embryogenesis and somaclonal variations are discussed.
20461610|Translational genomics is defined as the application of molecular-genetic principles derived from model systems to species of experimental or economic interest. The past 20 years of research in plant model systems such as Arabidopsis thaliana have relinquished vast amounts of information regarding gene function, the integration of genetic components into pathways, and the interrelationships between pathways to control form and function in plants and plant-products alike. At present, the challenge is to relate these paradigms to other species of economic or scientific interest. Apart from being an important and valuable crop, strawberry (Fragaria spp.) is a member of the Rosaceae, a plant family containing fruit, nut, ornamental and wood-bearing species. Strawberry is unique within the Rosaceae in that it is a rapidly growing herbaceous perennial with a small genome and the ability to thrive in a laboratory setting. Strawberry species may also be transformed and regenerated in a time scale of weeks or months instead of years. For these reasons, strawberry has been recognized as the translational genomics model for the Rosaceae family. This review summarizes and synthesizes the technical reports of strawberry regeneration and transformation, consolidating the large body of information regarding genetic modification of this important genus.
4293347|The anatomy of normal and hyperhydric in vitro shoots and leaves from micropropagated Simmondsia chinensis (Link.) Schn, (jojoba) was compared with that of seedlings (control plants). In vitro normal plantlets displayed good development and survived during the acclimatization stage. In vitro hyperhydric plantlets presented numerous anatomical defects, such as hypertrophy of the mesophyll and of the stem cortex, malformed non-functional stomata, epidermal discontinuity, and xylem hypolignification; they did not survive acclimatization. The study of the anatomical features of in vitro jojoba shoots and leaves allowed determination of the structural condition of the plantlets and prediction of which plantlet would survive the critical acclimatization stage.
42568718|The Cucumis melo L. inodorus honeydew melon variant is one of the most consumed melons in the USA, and has important commercial and nutritional value. There is a need for improvement of several genetic traits in the US honeydew melon, such as nutrition, drought tolerance, and disease resistance. We investigated the existing regeneration media and optimized the medium composition for an elite honeydew diploid breeding line, "150", using cotyledonary expiants. Four combinations of three different plant growth regulators, 6-benzyladenine, abscisic acid, and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), were tested in the shoot regeneration media. The presence of IAA in the medium caused the cotyledon expiants to curl away from the medium, which made antibiotic selection problematic in our previous study. Omission of IAA from the culture media eliminated this problem and did not impact the shoot regeneration capacity of the cotyledonary expiants. We also estimated the ploidy of regenerated plants using flow cytometry, and 50-60% were found to be polyploid (tetraploid or mixoploid). However, contrary to other studies, these polyploid plants did not show major morphological differences compared to the diploid plants.
40793161|Regrowth of plants after cryopreservation varies, and resulting regrowth ranges from poor to excellent. Oxidative stress is a potential cause of damage in plant tissues. Antioxidants and anti-stress compounds may improve regrowth by preventing or repairing the damage. Lipoic acid (LA), glutathione (GSH), glycine betaine (GB), and polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) were tested during cryopreservation of shoot tips using the plant vitrification solution 2 (PVS2) protocol. Two in vitro-grown blackberry cultivars were cold acclimated and then cryopreserved in liquid nitrogen (LN). The antioxidant and anti-stress compounds were added at four critical steps of the protocol: pretreatment, loading, rinsing, and regrowth. Three out of the four compounds significantly improved regrowth of cryopreserved shoot tips. Regrowth ranged from 40% to 50% for controls to > 80% for treated shoot tips. LA (4-8 mM) produced high regrowth at pretreatment, loading, and rinsing for 'Chehalem' and at all steps for 'Hull Thornless'. Recovery improved at all steps with GSH (0.16 mM) and GB (10 mM). PVP had a neutral or negative impact on regrowth. Overall addition of LA, GSH, and GB improved regrowth by ~25% over the shoot tips cryopreserved using the regular PVS2 protocol (control). This study shows that adding non-vitamin antioxidants and anti-stress compounds during the PVS2-vitrification protocol improves regrowth of shoot cultures following cryopreservation. We recommend inclusion of antioxidants as part of standard cryopreservation protocols.
4293126|Expiants of axillary buds excised from mature adult stems of Swainsona formosa (G. Don) J. Thompson (syn. Clianthus formosus) were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with a range of auxins, cytokinins, and sucrose concentrations. Auxins did not increase shoot or bud numbers above controls, and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid was the only auxin to significantly increase callus production. Benzyladenine or thidiazuron incorporated into the medium at
4293369| The protocol currently used to cryopreserve Pinus patula embryogenic tissue was investigated in an attempt to improve and optimize the recovery of tissue. This investigation describes two aspects that influence tissue recovery after cryopreservation: (i) the effects of precooling tissue prior to immersion into liquid nitrogen; and (ii) whether the choice of supports onto which the recovered tissue is suspended improved the recovery rate. Results indicated that precooling tissue to -70C prior to immersion into liquid nitrogen was superior to precooling to -30C or direct immersion in liquid nitrogen (-196C). Tissue recovery improved when polyester grids were used as supports, and was slowest on filter paper supports. 
20064934|Treatments differing from each other for the type of tube closure (i.e., cotton plug for free gas exchange, airtight rubber cap, and rubber cap with ethysorb) and/or rooting culture medium (i.e., enriched or not by 25 to 100 M acetylsalicylic acid) were compared for their effects on gaseous composition of the culture atmosphere and microcutting rooting of the GF 677 (Prunus persica  Prunus amygdalus) hybrid. Rubber capping, which leads to rapid ethylene accumulation inside tubes, strongly reduced rooting time and in some cases enhanced final rooting percentage over that of cotton plugs. Ethysorb almost completely absorbed ethylene produced by shoots, which showed lower rooting percentages within 9 d than microcuttings cultured in the absence of ethysorb. In contrast, no significant difference in rooting was found between the two treatments after 14 d. Carbon dioxide concentration was similar in all treatments within 5 to 9 d and seemed to be ineffective for rooting. The influence of acetylsalicylic acid on rooting was unclear. Root number and length were not significantly influenced by the treatments. These results demonstrate that the use of airtight closures, leading to rapid ethylene accumulation, can reduce time of rooting expressions for GF 677 microcuttings. However, free gas exchange towards the end of the rooting period (from Day 9 to Day 14) is advisable to prevent leaf yellowing. No significant difference in plantlet survival and growth after transfer ex vitro was found among treatments.
25623014|Two protocols were developed for the efficient regeneration of Sinningia speciosa from leaf explants via two developmental pathways. The first method involved formation of callus and buds, followed by subsequent root growth, in Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) containing 2.0 mg l 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 0.2 mg l -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA), with a regeneration efficiency of 99.0%. The second method involved producing callus and roots, followed by subsequent formation of buds, in MS medium supplemented with 1.0-5.0 mg l NAA, and resulted in a regeneration efficiency of 90.4%. Our experiments indicate that the root-first pathway resulted in a lower plant regeneration efficiency. Through five continual generations using the buds-first method, a total of 215 regenerated plants were obtained in the last generation, and eight exhibited a phenotype we named tricussate whorled phyllotaxis (twp). Six of the regenerated twp variant plants maintained their tricussate whorled phyllotaxis phenotype, showing no other abnormalities, while one reverted to a wild type before flowering and another formed two rounds of sepals. Physiological analysis revealed that the twp plants responded differently than wild type to exogenous NAA and 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid (TIBA), while high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis showed that the levels of endogenous indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and gibberellin (GA) were lower in twp than wild-type plants. These results suggest that the formation of the twp mutant may be related to phytohormones and that the twp variant could be an important material for investigating the molecular mechanism of plant phyllotaxis patterning.
4293067|A number of different methods, involving direct DNA delivery are now available for plant transformation. Here we review the most recently developed technique which involves the mixing of silicon carbide whiskers with plant cells and plasmid DNA. Fertile transgenic plants have now been produced using whisker-mediated transformation, and this method can now be considered as a simple, inexpensive alternative for plant transformation. A brief review on transformation of animal cells and Chlamydomonas using whiskers technology is also included.
29736217|Transgenic plants of grapefruit (Citrus paradisi Macf.) cvs. 'Duncan', 'Flame', 'Marsh', and 'Ruby Red' were obtained using Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of seedling epicoty1 tissue. Two citrus tristeza virus (CTV)-derived candidate resistance genes: '392' (3' region of the p23 ORF plus 3' untranslated regionUTR) and 'p23 hairpin' (sense-p23 ORF plus UTR plus antisense-p23 ORE) were introduced into grapefruit using Agrobacterium strains EHA105 and EHA101, respectively. Epicoty1 explants from 1-mo.-old in vitro etiolated seedlings were incubated in bacterial suspension. Green shoots that formed on explants after 4-5 wk after bacterial incubation were tested for the presence of the GUS gene by histochemical analysis. The percentage of GUS-positive shoots and transformation efficiency was 30.33.3% and 3.5% for treatment with EHA101 and 15.31.7% and 1.3% for treatment with EHA105. GUS-positive shoots were micrografted onto Carrizo citrange (Citrus sinensis L. Osbeck  Poncirus trifoliata L. Raf.) seedling rootstocks, and the presence of transgene sequences in these plants was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), Southern blot, and reverse transcription PCR analyses. Resulting transgenic grapefruit plants were challenged with CTV and tobacco mosaic virus using a protoplast challenge assay as an initial screen to determine the effects of the transgenes on virus replication. Although complete RNA-mediated resistance was not achieved, preliminary results showed that 5.2% of the recovered transgenic plants containing the '392' CTV-derived sequence repeatedly exhibited reduced CTV replication in protoplasts. These plants are being further evaluated using the traditional method of virus inoculation followed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
4292962|An F
4293673|Factors influencing the Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of both monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plant species have been widely investigated. These factors include manipulating Agrobacterium strains and plasmids, growth conditions for vir gene induction, plant genotype, inoculation and co-culture conditions, and the selection agents and their application regime. We report here a novel physical parameter during co-culture, desiccation of plant cells or tissues post-Agrobacterium infection, which greatly enhances transfer DNA (T-DNA) delivery and increases stable transformation efficiency in wheat. Desiccation during co-culture dramatically suppressed Agrobacterium growth, which is one of the factors known to favor plant cell recovery. Osmotic and abscisic acid treatments and desiccation prior to inoculation did not have the same enhancement effect as desiccation during co-culture on T-DNA delivery in wheat. An efficient transformation protocol has been developed based on desiccation and is suitable for both paromomycin and glyphosate selection. Southern analysis showed approximately 67% of transgenic wheat plants received a single copy of the transgene.
4293397| A simple and efficient method for multiple shoot induction and proliferation was achieved in six Indian cotton cultivars from the pre-existing meristems of 21-d-old in vitro-grown seedlings. Combinations of naphthalene acetic acid (0.3-10.7 M) and 6-benzylaminopurine (BA; 2.2 or 4.4 M) were used for induction of shoots. The shoots proliferated and were maintained on MS (Murashige and Skoog) medium supplemented with 4.4 M BA. Simultaneous elongation of shoots was obtained in the same medium. Optimum multiplication was observed in cv. LRK-516 (19.7  4.6), in cotyledonary nodes isolated from the adjoining node and cultured individually in 250 ml flasks. This indicates lateral inhibition of adjoining meristems. A positive influence of culture flasks as opposed to test tubes on the proliferation of multiple shoots was observed in all six cultivars tested. The morphogenic response varied with genotype and the nature of explants. Rooting of elongated shoots was achieved on MS medium devoid of growth regulators. The plantlets were transferred to the field after hardening in the greenhouse. All plants flowered and formed bolls on maturity. 
20461627|A protocol was developed for rapid clonal propagation of the important medicinal climber, Tinospora cordifolia, through in vitro culture of mature nodal explants. Shoots were initiated on both Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium and woody plant medium (WPM) supplemented with 2.32 M kinetin (KIN). Of the two basal media tested, WPM was found to be superior to MS medium for the induction of multiple shoots. Among the cytokinins tested, N-benzyladenine (BA) was more effective than KIN for axillary shoot proliferation. KIN was superior to BA in terms of shoot elongation. An average multiplication rate of 6.3 shoots per explant was obtained with WPM supplemented with 8.87 M BA. Shoot clumps harvested from this medium were transferred to WPM supplemented with 2.22 M BA and 4.65 M KIN for shoot elongation. Elongated shoots were rooted in half-strength MS medium supplemented with 2.85 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Rooted plantlets were successfully transferred to sand and established with 80% survival.
25623034|Gentiana straminea Maxim. (MahuaQinjiao) is an important Chinese medicinal herb that is rich in secoiridoids. To increase the production of this plant, we have developed an efficient tissue culture system for high-frequency plant regeneration. We have also obtained plants with high secoiridoid monomer production through tissue culture and somatic embryogenesis. We have found that the MB medium is better than the B5 medium for callus induction. Calluses induced from immature seeds are superior to those from hypocotyls or young leaves in regeneration via somatic embryogenesis. We have also demonstrated that 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid is efficient for both callus induction and embryogenesis, indole-3-acetic acid is suitable for embryogenic callus proliferation, and N-(benzyl)-adenine promotes both embryo development and the accumulation of gentiopicroside in the cultures. Regenerated plants have been selected for high gentiopicroside content. One plant contains 5.82% of gentiopicroside, which is higher than the control plants (1.20-3.73%). The regenerated plants are genetically more stable than the calluses based on both cytological and random amplified polymorphic DNA analyses.
29736158|Plant regeneration through direct somatic embryogenesis was achieved from root segments derived from in vitro shoots of Rauvolfia micrantha Hook. f. (Apocynaceae) grown for 6 wk in half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 3% sucrose, 100 mgl myo-inositol, and 0.5 mgl -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The effects of photoperiod and plant growth regulators (PGRs) in half-strength MS medium were studied for the rapid and maximum induction of somatic embryos. The characteristic globular or heart-shaped stages of somatic embryogenesis were not found and cotyledonary state embryos occasionally appeared without the intervention of callus in total darkness and 16-h photoperiod. Root segments cultured in the medium containing 0.1 mg NAA and 0.2 mgl 6-benzyladenine (BA) under 16-h photoperiod showed the maximum frequency (39%) of embryogenesis. the frequency of embryo formation was increased to 63% when they were cultured in medium with 0.1 mgl BA in the dark for 4wk, then grown under the 16-h photoperiod. Explants with developing embryos developed into plants after transfer to half-strength MS medium supplemented with 0.1 mgl BA and 0.05 mgl NAA. The well-developed plants were hardended and most plants (80%) survived and were phenotypically similar to the mother plants.
20064992|The uncommon polyamines, norspermidine and norspermine, were detected in maize in vitro cultures of three different genotypes. The common polyamines, spermidine and spermine, along with the diamine, putrescine, were also observed. The total amounts of the uncommon polyamines, norspermidine and norspermine, were comparable to the total amounts of the common polyamines, spermidine and spermine, in the maize tissues. The titer for norspermidine was 6- to 15-fold greater than that of its common counterpart (spermidine) in the three genotypes. Norspermidine was the predominant polyamine among all triamines and tetramines detected in cell cultures of two of the three genotypes of maize examined and was predominant along with spermine in the third genotype. Enzyme assays performed with extracts from callus of one of the genotypes suggested a likely mechanism to account for the biosynthesis of the uncommon polyamines in cultured maize cells, through the actions of putrescine aminopropyltransferase, polyamine oxidase, and Schiff-base reductase/decarboxylase enzyme activities. This is the first report of the detection of uncommon polyamines in maize tissues, as well as the first report of these uncommon polyamines in a monocotyledonous plant.
23255665|We have obtained transgenic plants of Nicotiana sylvestris expressing an arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (AANAT) gene and a hydroxyindole-O-methyltransferase (HIOMT) gene using Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. Both AANAT and HIOMT are key enzymes in melatonin synthesis. Transgenic plants of N. sylvestris were characterized by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and reverse transcription PCR analyses. The content of melatonin was significantly higher in transgenic plants than in nontransgenic plants. The highest melatonin content of transgenic plant leaves reached 50.4 g/g dry weight, while almost no melatonin could be detected in the nontransformed plants. To investigate effects of the expression of the AANAT and HIOMT genes on melatonin function in plants, isolated protoplasts of N. sylvestris were exposed to ultraviolet (UV)-B radiation for different durations. DNA damage was evaluated by single-cell gel electrophoresis, which showed that the TailDNA percentage value in transgenic protoplasts was lower than that in the nontransformed protoplasts in the range of 030 s of UV-B radiation. DNA damage caused by UV-B was therefore reduced in transgenic N. sylvestris plants.
41432840|In vitro propagation has played a key role for obtaining large numbers of virus free, homogenous plants, and for breeding of plantains and bananas (Musa spp.).Explant sources utilized for banana micropropagation include suckers, shoot tips, and floral buds. The present study employed male floral meristems as expiant material for micropropagation of hill banana ecotypes (AAB) 'Virupakshi' and ' Sirumalai.' Immature male floral buds were collected from healthy plants from hill banana growing areas. Exposure of explants to ethyl alcohol (70%, v/v) for 30 s, then mercuric chloride (0.1%, w/v) for 30 s, followed by three independent rinses of 5 min each in autoclaved, double-distilled water satisfactorily reduced the contamination. Male floral bud explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with different combinations of 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP), coconut water, naphthaleneacetic acid, gibberellic acid, and additional supplements. MS medium supplemented with 5 mg 1 BAP and coconut water (15%) was the most efficient media for shoot initiation and multiple shoot formation (15 shoots from a single part of a floral bud). The best response for shoot elongation was obtained using the combination of basal MS, 5 mg 1;BAP, 1 mg 1 naphthaleneacetic acid and 1.5 mg1 gibberellic acid.Regenerated shoots were rooted in basal MS medium within 15-20 d. The rooted plantlets were transferred to a soil mixture and maintained at a temperature of 252C for 10 d and then at room temperature (30-32C) for 2 wk, before transferring to a greenhouse. The regenerated plantlets showed 100% survival.
4293885|The present study discusses the results of cytological studies of two kinds of sugar beet callus, i.e., embryogenic and non-embryogenic tissues. The calluses were produced through culture of secondary leaves on Murashige and Skoog medium containing two hormone combinations. One week after transfer of calluses onto fresh medium, their cells were viewed using electron microscopy and an image analyzer. Observations showed that cells of the two callus types had considerable differences in cell structure and various organelles. Of note were the high amount of polyploidization, rough endoplasmic reticulum, polysome, poly-nucleolus, and incomplete cell wall together with abnormal partitioning in non-embryogenic cells, as compared to embryogenic cells. In contrast, vacuolation of cytoplasm, perfect cell wall and partitioning structure, and the high proportion of nucleus/cytoplasm area were recognized in embryogenic cells.
23326893|A protocol was developed for micropropagation of Mandevilla moricandiana (A.DC.) Woodson, a native plant from Brazil. Shoots, obtained from in vitro plantlets were used as source of nodal segments for shoot production from axillary buds. The nodal segments were grown on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with different concentrations of 6-benzyladenine and/or indole-3-acetic acid to induce axillary bud elongation. After a 2-mo culture period, the medium supplemented with 1.0 mgL -1 6-benzyladenine gave the largest number of nodal segments per explant. The nodal segments obtained from plants developed under these conditions were grown on medium supplemented with different concentrations indole-3-acetic acid, -naphthaleneacetic acid, and indole-3-butyric acid. The use of the medium supplemented with indole-3-acetic acid and indole-3-buryric induced shoot elongation and shoot development, formation of basal callus, and/or indirect organogenesis of roots. Following transfer of shoots to soil, the plants with only basal callus showed 10% survival and developed roots from callus, while in vitro-rooted plants had a maximum 40% survival rate ex vitro. Regardless of the auxin added to the rooting medium, the acclimatization period allowed the plants rooted in vitro to develop their shoots fully. The protocol developed here is suitable for the production of shoots and rooted plantlets of M. moricandiana.
20171600| Blackberry (Rubus spp.) cultivars Chester Thornless, Kotata, Marion, and Navaho were evaluated for morphogenic potential using the top one to four leaves from in vitro-grown shoots. In each experiment adventitious shoots were regenerated via organogenesis without an intervening callus phase. Rooting was spontaneous when shoots were transferred to a medium without growth regulators or with indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). Three gelling treatments (agar, Gelrite, and a combination) calibrated for equal gel firmness [110 g/(1.1 cm) ] did not affect explant regeneration or the number of shoots per explant, but did affect callus production. Significantly more callus (P  0.05) was induced on regeneration medium (RM) with 10 M N-benzyladenine (BA), 0.5 M IBA, and 0.19% Gelrite, than on medium containing either 0.71% agar, or the 0.35% agar/0.11% Gelrite combination. Explants on RM with 5 M IBA produced significantly more callus, but fewer shoots, compared to zero or 0.5 M IBA treatments for all gel treatments. Adding 200 mg l sequestrene iron [sodium ferric ethylene diamine di-(O-hydroxyphenylacetate)] at the first transfer onto RM induced more shoots per explant than the control, but did not influence the amount of callus produced. Sequestrene iron in the second transfer on RM significantly increased the regeneration (caulogenesis) frequency from 30 to 40% for 'Marion' and from 23 to 43% for 'Kotata'. Silver nitrate significantly reduced callus production for all treatments, but did not affect the frequency of caulogenesis or the number of shoots per explant. 
20461609|Investigations into the mechanisms of somatic embryogenesis (SE) have largely focused on the hormonal regulation of the process and a repertoire of strategies has been developed to regenerate many species via SE. However, the genes that regulate the induction and development of somatic embryos have not been defined. In the recent times, regeneration via overexpression of genes, such as WUSCHEL or LEAFY COTYLEDON, in Arabidopsis has started to provide a basis for understanding the genes involved in SE. This has gone hand in hand with the availability of genome sequence information and the availability of mutants in model plants such as Arabidopsis and Medicago. An improved understanding of zygotic embryogenesis and the maintenance and differentiation of stem cells in the shoot meristem also helps to provide novel insights into the mechanisms of SE. This review examines the current understanding of the genetic regulation of SE in the context of current molecular understanding of plant development.
20064986|Techniques for transforming intact tissues of cereals were evaluated for their efficacy in transforming immature embryos and Type II callus of maize (Zea mays L.). The techniques used were particle bombardment, tissue electroporation, tissue electrophoresis, and silicon carbide fibers. Each method was assessed in terms of transient -glucuronidase (GUS) expression. High levels of GUS expression were observed in A188 Type II callus using both tissue electroporation and particle bombardment, with means of 417.8 and 954.5 blue expression units (beu) per g fresh weight (FW) callus, respectively. Only particle bombardment resulted in high transient gene expression in immature embryos, with a mean transformation frequency of 34.8 b.e.u. per embryo. Very low levels of GUS expression were achieved with silicon carbide-mediated gene transfer, even when employing tissues used in the original publication (Black Mexican Sweet suspension cells). GUS expression was not obtained following tissue electrophoretic gene delivery.
4292931|Protoplasts of Nicotiana tabacum var. Xanthi were incubated with liposomes containing the plasmid plGVneo23 encoding kanamycin resistance. Transformed protoplasts and calli and plants derived from transformed protoplasts were treated with the demethylating agent 5-azacytidine. Three lines of evidence indicate that 5-azacytidine can increase NPTII activity in transformed cell lines and plants: a) Addition of azacytidine to the protoplast medium increased the proportion of kanamycin-resistant transformants recovered, b) NPT II activity could not be detected in approximately 50% of calli derived from transformed protoplasts although such calli grew slowly on medium containing kanamycin. Treatment of NPT-negative calli with 5-azacytidine restored detectable gene activity and increased the growth rate of the callus in the presence of kanamycin. c) Shoot tips regenerated from transformed calli were either NPT-positive or NPT-negative. When shoots were NPT-negative, treatment with 5-azacytidine restored detectable gene activity and improved growth in the presence of kanamycin.
4293592|Explants of sugarcane, a C
25623036|Production of vaccines in plant cells provides an alternative system that has several advantages when compared to current vaccine production methods. Establishment of stable seed stocks for a continuous supply of a vaccine is a critical part of production systems. Therefore, a vitrification method for cryopreservation was applied to non-transgenic and three different antigen-expressing transgenic Nicotiana tabacum (NT-1) lines. Preculture of the suspension cultures 1 d prior to vitrification was sufficient for cell survival through the cryopreservation process. Inclusion of 0.3 M mannitol in the preculture medium was necessary for maintenance of cell viability. Cultures were also treated with and without heat shock prior to vitrification, and it was found that heat shock was unnecessary for growth recovery post cryopreservation. All cultures survived storage in liquid nitrogen at intervals ranging from 1 h to 1 yr. Antigen expression was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for cultures that grew post cryopreservation and those that had never been cryopreserved. Expression levels in cultures derived from cryopreserved material were comparable to cultures that had not been cryopreserved. Transmission electron microscopy showed that the integrity of the cell structure was maintained post cryopreservation.
4292987|Plant cells growing in an artificial culture environment make numerous genetic mistakes. These alterations are manifested as increased frequencies of single-gene mutations, chromosome breakages, transposable element activations, quantitative trait variations, and modifications of normal DNA methylation patterns. Evidence is presented that indicates a high frequency of DNA hypomethylation as the result of the tissue culture process. Fifteen percent of the methylation changes appear to have been homozygous in the original regenerated plants. A hypothesis is advanced that relates DNA methylation to the variety of genetic alterations found among maize tissue culture regenerants and their progenies. The epigenetic nature of DNA methylation raises questions concerning the stability of tissue culture-induced changes in self-pollinations and crosses.
4293036| Five genotypes of Sequoia sempervirens were cultured in vitro. Stem segments of greenhouse-grown plants were disinfested and grown on a Wolter and Skoog (WS) medium without growth regulators for 4 wk. Newly developing shoots from axillary buds were then subcultured onto fresh media containing several different cytokinins at a concentration of 5 M each per treatment. The following cytokinin treatments were used: benzyladenine (BA), BA plus adenine hemisulfate, N-benzyl-9(2-tetrahydropyranyl) adenine (BPA), N6-[2-Isopentenyl]adenine (2ip), kinetin, thidiazuron (TDZ), and zeatin. Each genotype responded differently to tested cytokinins. The use of zeatin resulted in the highest number of shoots and the longest shoots for three genotypes of S. sempervirens. In another experiment, shoots from three genotypes were grown on the same basal medium described above and supplemented with zeatin at six different concentrations (2.5, 5, 10, 15, 20, and 30 M). For all zeatin concentrations, significant differences among genotypes for shoot proliferation were observed. When all five genotypes were grown under three concentrations of zeatin (5, 10, and 15 M), differences among genotypes were observed for both shoot proliferation and shoot length. The influence of the culture medium on the overall micropropagation protocol of S. sempervirens is discussed. 
40793224|Stem nodal segments of a sympodial orchid, Zygopetalum mackayi, were used as expiants to induce protocorm-like body (PLB) formation on a hormone-free 1/2 Murashige and Skoog (1962) modified medium (1/2MS-0) or 1/2MS supplemented with 0.045-4.54 M 1-pheny1-3-(1, 2,3-thiadiazol-5-y1)-urea [TDZ] in light. After 1 mo of culture, pale to dark green, compact and irregular nodulars of PLBs formed from the expiants. For PLB induction, TDZ had no significant effect on the percentage of PLB formation but promoted mean numbers of PLBs per responding expiant at 0.045-4.54 M. For plant conversion, PLBs were transferred onto the same basal medium devoid of TDZ. After 2-3 mo of culture, these PLBs successfully formed shoots and then roots with normal morphology. For PLB proliferation, TDZ has no significant effects on the fresh weight of PLB aggregates, but there is significantly retarded shoot development at 0.45-4. 54 M after 1 mo of culture. When transferring these PLB aggregates onto hormone-free medium for plant conversion, PLBs derived from TDZcontaining medium showed a decrease of shoot length (0.86-2.08 cm in shoot length) compared to those derived from 1/2MS-0 (2.74 cm in shoot length) after 1 mo of culture. Gibberellin A 3 [GA 3 ] at 0.29-8.66 M significantly retarded PLB proliferation, but at 0.03 and 0.29 M resulted in longer shoot length than the control treatment. Histological studies reveal that shoot development originated from the outer region of PLB aggregates. The young shoots initially connected to each other at their basal tissues with the parental PLBs. Plants were successfully obtained from PLBs and then gradually became more loosely connected with each other as well as with the parental aggregates. Several dozen plants were acclimatized in the greenhouse and showed normal morphology.
29736165|The present investigation reports optimized parameters for somatic embryogenesis and cryopreservation of embryogenic cultures using shoot apical domes from mature trees of Pinus roxburghii Sarg. Embryogenic tissue of P. roxburghii Sarg. was cryopreserved for 24 h, 10 d, and 8 wk using sorbitol and dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) as cryoprotectants. Results indicate that 0.2 M sorbitol and 5% DMSO had the best cryoprotecting effect. The recovered tissue showed luxuriant growth on maintenance medium (II). Partial desiccation of thawed embryogenic tissue for 24 h prior to transfer to maturation medium enhanced the maturation of somatic embryos. Maturation frequency increased from 1.3 to 18.3% after 12 h desiccation treatment, and from 18.3 to 61.8% after 24 h of desiccation. However, non-desiccated embryogenic tissue produced the least number of somatic embryos (1.3%) on the maturation medium with the same abscisic acid and Gellan gum concentration. All the three embryogenic lines produced plantlets and had the same appearance and normal growth as compated to unfrozen controls.
4292979|Thidiazuron (N-phenyl-N'-l,2,3-thiadiazol-5-ylurea) was first reported to have cytokinin activity in 1982. Since then, thidiazuron has been used successfully in vitro to induce adventitious shoot formation and to promote axillary shoot proliferation. Thidiazuron is especially effective with recalcitrant woody species. Shoot numbers produced on medium containing thidiazuron are equivalent to or greater than numbers initiated on medium with purine-type cytokinins. Low concentrations of thidiazuron (0.0022 to 0.088 mg/liter) are effective for micropropagation. Prolonged exposure to thidiazuron should be avoided, as this may cause hyperhydricity, abnormal shoot morphology, or problems in rooting.
4292983|Proliferative somatic embryogenesis is a regeneration system suitable for mass propagation and genetic transformation of soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.]. The objective of this study was to examine genotypic effects on induction and maintenance of proliferative embryogenic cultures, and on yield, germination, and conversion of mature somatic embryos. Somatic embryos were induced from eight genotypes by explanting 100 immature cotyledons per genotype on induction medium. Differences in frequency of induction were observed among genotypes. However, this step was not limiting for plant regeneration because induction frequency in the least responding genotype was sufficient to initiate and maintain proliferative embryogenic cultures. Six genotypes selected for further study were used to initiate embryogenic cultures in liquid medium. Cultures were evaluated for propagation of globular-stage tissue in liquid medium, yield of cotyledon-stage somatic embryos on differentiation medium, and plant recovery of cotyledon-stage embryos. Genotypes also differed for weight and volume increase of embryogenic tissue in liquid cultures, for yield of cotyledon-stage embryos on differentiation medium, and for plant recovery from cotyledon-stage embryos. Rigorous selection for a proliferative culture phenotype consisting of nodular, compact, green spheres increased embryo yield over that of unselected cultures, but did not affect the relative ranking of genotypes. In summary, the genotypes used in this study differed at each stage of plant regeneration from proliferative embryogenic cultures, but genotypic effects were partially overcome by protocol modifications.
4292985|A method was developed to induce desiccation tolerance in microspore-derived embryos of Brassica napus. Treatment of 14- to 20-day-old embryos with
4293724|Growth sensitivity of four local grapevine (Vitis vinifera) varieties, Ashlamesh, Helwani, Kassofee, and Khoudeiry, were evaluated for salt. They were cultured on DSD1 medium until rooting stage, then they were transferred to a liquid DSD1 medium containing 0, 10, 20, 30, 40, 80, 120, or 150 mM NaCl for 30 d. The shoot length and leaf number of Ashlamesh, Helwani, and Kassofee were significantly increased at 10 and/or 30mM NaCl, whereas, 150 mM NaCl decreased shoot length of all varieties except Kassofee. The presence of NaCl at 80 mM or higher concentrations decreased the chlorophyll content and root number of all varieties, while 30 mM NaCl increased root number of Kassofee.
4293100|A culture procedure using temporary immersion in a liquid medium was tested for somatic embryogenesis of Hevea brasiliensis (
4293140|The changes in the microtubular pattern during the first few days of somatic embryo induction were studied using the rice scutellum epithelium system. A clear difference in the distribution and orientation of the microtubules could be found as early as 12 h after culturing. In the control treatment, the microtubules tended to congregate near the terminal part of the cells and had an oblique to transverse orientation with respect to the long axis of the cells. In the hormone-treated explants, the microtubules were more evenly distributed throughout the cells as compared to the control treatment. The microtubules initially had an oblique orientation similar to the control. However, by 16 h, the majority of microtubules were aligned parallel to the long axis of the cells. The scutellum epithelial cells in both the control- and hormone-treated explants divided periclinally at about 48 h. In the control treatment, the scutellum epithelial cells gradually became vacuolated over time, while the hormone-treated explants remained densely cytoplasmic. The fluorescence staining intensity gradually declined in the control, whereas a distinct staining pattern of microtubules remained in the hormone-treated explants.
4292923|This note describes a simple experimental system for incubating plant cell and tissue cultures under conditions in which the gaseous environment within the culture flasks is continuously flushed out by air or gas mixtures of known composition. Two of the major problems in maintaining such cultures, namely, contamination and desiccation of the agar-solidified medium, can be overcome by using this setup. Furthermore, with modifications, it can be adapted for commercial micropropagation projects.
4293410|The transformation efficiency of cultivated tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum cv. UC82) using Agrobacterium tumefaciens was improved from 14% in a previous report to 25% in the present study. Several variables potentially involved in the improvement of transformation efficiency were evaluated, including enhancements in the regeneration system, antibiotics used for Agrobacterium-overgrowth control, and method of applying kanamycin for selection. The most important variable identified was the influence of overgrowth-control antibiotics on both the regeneration response and transformation efficiency. The best transformant recovery and Agrobacterium-overgrowth control was obtained using
40793159|Ocotea catharinensis is a rare tree species indigenous to the Atlantic rainforest of South America. In spite of its value as a hardwood species, it is in danger of extinction. The species erratically produces seeds showing irregular flowering and slow growth. Therefore, plants are not easily replaced. Tissue culture-based techniques are commonly used for obtaining living material for tree propagation and in vitro preservation. Therefore, a high-frequency somatic embryogenie system was developed for the species. In the present work, the genetic fidelity of cell aggregates and somatic embryos at various stages of in vitro development of O. catharinensis was investigated using RAPD and AFLP markers. Both analyses confirmed the absence of genetic variation in all developmental stages of O. catharinensis embryognie cultures, verifying that the in vitro system is genetically stable. The cultures were also analyzed for their methylation profiles at 5'-CCGG-S' sites by identifying methylation-sensitive amplification polymorphisms. Some of these markers differentiated cell aggregates from embryo bodies. The sequencing of ten MSAP markers revealed that four sequences showed significant similarity to genes encoding plant proteins. Particularly, the predicted amino acid sequence of the fragment designated as OcEaggHMttc155 was similar to the enzyme 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate oxidase (ACO), which is involved in the biosynthesis of ethylene, and its expression was reported to occur from the beginning to the intermediate stages of plant embryo development. Here, we suggest that this enzyme is possibly involved in the control of the earliest stages of somatic embryogenesis of O. catharinensis, and an approach to study ACO expression during somatic embryogenesis is proposed.
20461742|A rapid and efficient method for the large-scale propagation of a highly valuable medicinal plant, Andrographis paniculata Nees, through in vitro culture of nodal explants obtained from 15-d-old aseptic seedling has been developed. High frequency direct shoot proliferation was induced in nodal explants cultured on Murashige and Skoog's medium supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP). Amongst the various cytokinins tested (BAP, kinetin, thidiazuron and 2-isopentyl adenine), BAP proved to be the most effective. The shoot forming capacity of the nodal explants was influenced by the BAP concentration (1-12.5 M), and the optimal response was observed at 10 M BAP, which induced an average of 34 shoots in 94% of the cultures within 4 wk. Significant differences were recorded in terms of average number of shoots per explant (8.6-34.1) among the different concentrations of BAP investigated. Concentrations of all cytokinins tested reach a level that can be considered above the optimum level, as marked by a reduced frequency of shoot proliferation. The multiple shoots obtained on various concentrations of BAP failed to elongate even after transfer to hormone-free MS medium. Elongation of the induced shoots was achieved on MS basal medium supplemented with 1.0 M GA within 2 wk. A proliferating shoot culture was established by repeatedly subculturing the original nodal explants on shoot multiplication medium after each harvest of the newly formed shoots. The explants retained their morphogenic potential even after three harvests. Therefore, in 90 d, about 60-70 shoots were obtained from a single nodal explant and the nodal explants from primary shoots further regenerated equivalent number of shoots, depicting their high frequency regeneration potential in A. paniculata. Rooting was best induced in 94% of shoots cultured on MS medium supplemented with 2.5 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), within a wk. The plantlets were successfully transferred to soil after hardening with a 92% survival rate. The system is rapid: the initiation of shoot buds to the transplanting of regenerants to soil is completed in 8-9 wk.
20065011|Apical and axillary buds of Glycyrrhiza glabra commonly known as licorice, a plant of repute in the Indian system of medicine, were used for induction of adventitious shoots. For induction of multiple shoots, Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium with N-benzyladenine (BA, 0.88-8.87 M) was used. Reduction in major salts of MS medium enhanced the multiplication ratio up to 1:10. Plants transferred to the greenhouse showed 90% survival. The present work describes a stepwise protocol for production of Glycyrrhiza glabra plants on simple minimal media, where very high multiplication rates with healthy root systems were obtained. Roots being the organ of commercial importance, the protocol has tremendous potential.
23321170|In vitro screening at the cellular level was performed with mature seed-derived callus from five rice varieties, viz. IR 18351-229-3, IR 3185-6-3-3-2, SR 26-B, Nona Bokra, and C 14-8 of diverse geographical origin and with differential drought resistance at the in planta level. Callus was induced from mature seeds on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 2.0mgl-1 (9 M) of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 5.0, 10.0, and 15.0gl-1 of high molecular weight polyethylene glycol (PEG, 6000) as stressing agent to create chemical drought. Simultaneous efforts were also made to assess the effects of chemical drought in altering morphogenetic response in different varieties under in vitro culture. Seed germination was almost unaffected in SR 26-B and C 14-8, unlike in other varieties where germination was seriously affected. In general, seed germination was found to be decreased in three genotypes, viz. IR 18351-229-3, IR 3185-6-3-3-2, and Nona Bokra, with increased PEG concentrations. All genotypes displayed callus induction percentage in decreasing order with increased PEG concentrations supplemented in the callus induction medium (CIM), except SR 26-B and Nona Bokra. Callus induction was found to be more on CIM fortified with 5.0gl-1 PEG. In general, embryogenic callus induction and plantlet regeneration was found to be indirectly proportional to increased PEG concentrations used in CIM. Considering all characters, C 14-8 was found to be most appropriate in developing drought-tolerant lines under in vitro culture conditions followed by SR 26-B and Nona Bokra. A number of putative drought-tolerant plants were developed in C 14-8, SR 26-B, Nona Bokra, and IR 18351-29-3, and forwarded for field evaluation. In the majority of the progenies, a monogenic inheritance pattern for the drought tolerance character was observed.
41432439|High-frequency somatic embryogenesis was achieved in Coffea canephora using calcium ionophore A23187, which influences the influx of calcium into a cell. With 100 M calcium ionophore and 5 mM calcium, 85% and 70% of cultures produced embryogenic tissue, with 1057 and 958 primary embryos from each callus mass respectively. Medium supplemented with 100 M EGTA (calcium chelator) or 1 mM verapamil (calcium channel blocker) significantly reduced somatic embryogenesis. Calcium imaging studies were done to determine the relationship between morphogenetic response and the cellular calcium levels. The calcium ionophore/calcium treatment was very effective in driving cellular machinery toward embryogenesis. The embryos were regenerated into plantlets when cultured on MS medium supplemented with 5 mM calcium/100 M calcium ionophore A23187. Somatic embryogenesis-derived plants were successfully transferred to soil and grown to maturity in the field.
20461709|The internodes of Cephaelis ipecacuanha elongated when cultured on Gamborg B5 solid medium supplemented with 0.5 or 1 mg/L gibberellic acid (GA). The size of the elongated internode doubled in length compared to the untreated shoots, and the adventitious shoots formed on the elongated internodes. The shoots grew easily into plantlets without the use of auxin for rooting. The ex vitro regenerates cultivated in the greenhouse showed normal characteristics. Emetic alkaloids were detected in the leaves of in vitro shoots and the roots of regenerates cultivated in the greenhouse. This method using GA propagated numerous plants at a rate of more than 100 times compared to the method without GA.
20541030|Biodiesel, defined as the mono-alkyl esters of vegetable oils or animal fats, is an environmentally attractive alternative to conventional petroleum diesel fuel (petrodiesel). Produced by transesterification with a monohydric alcohol, usually methanol, biodiesel has many important technical advantages over petrodiesel, such as inherent lubricity, low toxicity, derivation from a renewable and domestic feedstock, superior flash point and biodegradability, negligible sulfur content, and lower exhaust emissions. Important disadvantages of biodiesel include high feedstock cost, inferior storage and oxidative stability, lower volumetric energy content, inferior low-temperature operability, and in some cases, higher
40793218|Nitrogen (N) metabolism during embryogenesis may be fundamental in the embryognie response. We used different expiants of Medicago arbrea L. subsp. arbrea seedlings: cotyledons, petioles and leaves, which form calluses with different embryognie responses. The endogenous contents of total nitrogen, nitrate, nitrite and ammonia and nitrate reductase activity were determined in embryognie and non-embryogenic calluses induced from the different expiants. The endogenous total N content decreased in the calluses as the culture time progressed, this decrease being more pronounced in the more embryognie calluses obtained from petioles with the H8 and F0 media. Inorganic N decreased during embryogenesis, coinciding with an increase in organic N. Thus, N metabolism somehow seems to be essential in embryogenesis. The N detected in calluses, at the start of culture, was mainly metabolised to nitrite. This metabolism was very pronounced; especially in embryognie calluses obtained from cotyledons and petioles. That is, the metabolism of N seemed to be more marked in the calluses in which embryogenesis was greater. The nitrite content decreased in all the calluses, the contents being lower, especially in the last months of culture, in the more embryognie calluses obtained from petioles. In many calluses, ammonia levels did not follow any general pattern. Neither was it possible to detect changes in ammonia levels between the embryognie and non-embryogenic calluses. Regarding nitrate reductase activity, no clear differences between embryognie and non-embryogenic calluses were found.
4293050|A simple and rapid procedure for direct organogenesis from root nodulelike structures of alfalfa (Medicago saliva L.) line SGg, spontaneously induced on growth regulator-free Gamborg (B
20065025|Regeneration of cashew (Anacardium occidentale L.) from shoot explants of young grafts of mature tree origin is described. Establishment of shoot cultures was affected by season of collection, source, and type of explant. Explants from young grafts established better than those collected from field trees, and nodal cuttings regenerated better than shoot tips. Maximum percentage bud break and minimum contamination was noticed when shoots were collected in dry months (January to May). Pre-conditioning of stock plants by hormonal spray with 6-benzyladenine (BA) and gibberellic acid (GA) and brief presoaking of shoots in BA had no significant effect on culture establishment. MS (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) medium with half-strength major nutrients, 2.74 mM L-glutamine, 87.6 mM sucrose, and
23016752|The regeneration ability of a Tunisian barley accession originated from Kerkena islands was monitored through somatic embryogenesis and organogenesis. To prevent or to reduce normal germination, longitudinally bisected as well as base-wounded mature caryopses were cultured on a modified Che and Pool-based medium (CP) enriched with different phytohormonal combinations. The greatest embryogenesis response was obtained when base-wounded caryopses were cultured on CP enriched with 2 mg/l chlorophenoxyacetic acid+2.5 mg/l kinetin (76.85%). The same combination coupled to longitudinally bisected caryopses led to the embryogenic induction at the hypocotyl base of the germinated caryopses (61.9%). Embryogenic calluses differentiated into globular, heart-shaped, torpedo, and fully differentiated stages of somatic embryos on hormone-free Murashige and Skoog-based medium. Rooted plantlets were successfully transferred to soil and grown to maturity in the greenhouse and produced fertile seeds within 3 mo. On the other hand, organogenesis was achieved on CP enriched with 2 mg/l 2, 4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid+2.5 mg/l kinetin. Histological aspects and scanning electron microscopy of both regeneration methods confirmed further the embryogenic and organogenic nature of the established processes. This efficient plant regeneration system provides a foundation for generating transgenic plants and germplasm preservation of "Kerkena" barley accession.
20541045|An effective protocol was developed for in vitro regeneration of the Melothria maderaspatana via indirect organogenesis in liquid and solid culture systems. Organogenesis was achieved from liquid culture calluses derived from leaf and petiole explants of mature plants. Organogenic calluses (98.20.36 and 94.80.71%) were induced from both leaf and petiole explants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) liquid medium containing 6.0 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 0.5 M thidiazuron (TDZ); and 6.0 M 2,4-D and 1.0 M benzyladenine (BA) combinations, respectively. Adventitious shoot regeneration (68.20.06 shoots per explant) was achieved on MS medium supplemented with 2.0 M BA, 4.0 M TDZ, 10% v/v coconut water and 0.06 mM glutamine from leaf-derived calluses. Petiole-derived calluses produced adventitious shoots (45.40.09 shoots per explant) on MS medium fortified with 2.0 M BA, 4.0 M TDZ, 10% v/v coconut water, and 0.08 mM glutamine. Elongation of shoots occurred in MS medium with 2.0 M gibberellic acid (GA). Regenerated shoots (2-3 cm in length) rooted (74.20.38%) and hardened (851.24%) when they were transferred to 1/2-MS medium supplemented with 3.0 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) followed by garden soil, vermiculate, and sand (2:1:1 ratio) mixture. The elongated shoots (4-5 cm in length) were exposed simultaneously for rooting as well as hardening (100%) in moistened [(1/8-MS basal salt solution with 5 M IBA and 100 mg l Bavistin (BVN)] garden soil, vermiculate, and sand (2:1:1 ratio) mixture. Subsequently, the plants were successfully established in the field. The survival percentage differed with seasonal variations.
20461670|Orchid-mycobiont specificity in the Orchidaceae was considered controversial and not well understood for many years. Differences in mycobiont specificity during germination in vitro vs in situ have lead some to consider orchid-mycobiont specificity as being generally low; however, others have suggested that specificity, especially in vitro, is surprisingly high. Mycobiont specificity may be genus or species specific. An in vitro symbiotic seed germination experiment was designed to examine mycobiont specificity of the endangered Florida terrestrial orchid Spiranthes brevilabris using mycobionts isolated from both the study species and the endemic congener Spiranthes floridana. In a screen of mycobionts, isolates Sflo-305 (99.5%), Sflo-306 (99.5%), and Sflo-308 (89.9%) (originating from S. floridana) supported higher initial (stage 1) seed germination than isolate Sbrev-266 (32.4%) (originating from S. brevilabris) after 3 wk culture. However, only isolate Sbrev-266 supported advanced germination and protocorm development to stage 5 (53.1%) after 12 wk culture. These findings suggest that S. brevilabris maintains a high degree of mycobiont specificity under in vitro symbiotic seed germination conditions. High orchid-mycobiont specificity in S. brevilabris may be indicative of the rare status of this orchid in Florida.
23016587|The importance of in vitro tools to complement other ex situ methods for saving plants from extinction is more relevant than ever before. More than 50% of the world's plant species are endemic to the 34 global biodiversity hotspots (GBHs), each holding at least 1,500 endemic plant species. In addition, a large number of small islands hold a number of endemic species on the brink of extinction. Conservation support concentrating more on these hotspots and small islands would significantly reduce the loss of species that is currently occurring. In the majority of these cases, the resources are either locally scarce or difficult to access for in vitro conservation to support other ex situ measures. Most island countries are small, and their geographical position is a stumbling block to initiate active partnerships with other countries when they need to use in vitro tools to rescue plants that produce recalcitrant seeds/spores or propagate only by vegetative means. However, many biodiversity hotspot countries have facilities and expertise, and they concentrate on their own flora for in vitro conservation programmes. For decades, because of the grave threat these plants face, the Conservation Biotechnology Unit, previously known as the Micropropagation Unit, at Royal Botanic Gardens Kew (RBG Kew) has been at the forefront of assisting countries to save their valuable biodiversity through both in situ and ex situ methods. Approaches mentioned here highlight work on recalcitrant ferns from GBHs and small islands. Source materials from recalcitrant species, either spore or seed and in some cases vegetative material, need to be used immediately after collection for tangible results in vitro. This becomes more difficult when only a few plants or small populations are left in the wild. The task becomes harder when available material is small in quantity, and there is greater restriction on the use of available genetic diversity in the wild. This paper highlights the importance of proper collection measures, in vitro culture procedures and cryopreservation and methods for the integrated conservation of threatened ferns from both GBHs and small islands. The importance of international networking to achieve these conservation goals also will be discussed.
23321161|Embryogenic callus of Anliucheng sweet orange (Citrus sinensis Osbeck) is theoretically diploid. However, significant chromosomal variations occurred when the calluses were subcultured and preserved for a long time. Cytological observation revealed a variety of mitotic irregularities underlying the occurrence of chromosomal variations. Despite the ubiquitous existence of chromosomal variations, long-term-cultured calluses were still capable of producing somatic embryos and plants. Interestingly, chromosomal variants were selected against when somatic embryos and plants regenerated from the embryogenic callus. Randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis was also carried out to detect DNA sequence variation in regenerated plants derived from the embryogenic callus. No difference in banding patterns was detected. It was clear that the plant regeneration from long-term-cultured callus was inclined to select against somaclonal variations.
4293732|Pathogens of plants produce effector proteins necessary for successful parasitism. The effectors enhance pathogen virulence by manipulating signaling in the plant. Plants produce resistance (R) proteins that mediate recognition of specific effectors and respond by initiating plant defenses. In many cases, R-proteins perceive effectors indirectly; virulence signaling initiated by the effector is shunted, via the R-protein, into a resistance response. Therefore, by understanding how effectors manipulate virulence targets we will concurrently gain insight into how this signaling elicits R-protein-mediated defense responses.
20540984|The recently achieved significant improvement of cereal transformation protocols provides facilities to alter the protein composition of the endosperm, for example, to increase or decrease the quantity of one of its protein components or to express foreign molecules. To achieve this goal, strong endosperm-specific promoters have to be available. The aim of our work was to develop a more efficient tissue-specific promoter which is currently used. A chimaeric promoter was assembled using the 5 UTR (1,900 bp) of the gene coding for the 1Bx17 HMW glutenin subunit protein, responsible for tissue-specific expression and the first intron of the rice actin gene (act1). The sequence around of the translation initial codon was optimized. The effect of the intron and promoter regulatory sequences, using different lengths of 1Bx17 HMW-GS promoter, were studied on the expression of uidA gene. The function of promoter elements, promoter length, and the first intron of the rice actin gene were tested by a transient expression assay in immature wheat endosperm and in stable transgenic rice plants. Results showed that insertion of the rice act1 first intron increased GUS expression by four times in transient assay. The shortest 1Bx17 HMW-GS promoter fragment (173 bp) linked to the intron and GUS reporter gene provided almost the same expression level than the intronless long 1Bx17 HMW-GS promoter. Analysis of the stable transformant plants revealed that 173 nucleotides were sufficient for endosperm-specific expression of the uidA gene, despite 13 nucleotides missing from the HMW enhancer sequence, a relevant regulatory element in the promoter region.
4293478| Establishment of fast-growing, highly regenerable callus cultures was examined in Muscari armeniacum Leichtl. ex Bak. in order to develop an efficient genetic transformation system. High-frequency callus formation was obtained from leaf explants of cv. Blue Pearl on media containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) or 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid (picloram, PIC). Fast-growing, yellowish nodular callus lines and white friable callus lines containing a few somatic embryos were established on initiation medium supplemented with 4.5 M 2,4-D and with 54 M NAA, respectively. The yellowish nodular calluses vigorously produced shoot buds after transfer to media containing 0.44-44 M 6-benzyladenine (BA), whereas the white friable calluses produced numerous somatic embryos upon transfer to plant growth regulator-free (PGR-F) medium. Histological observation of shoot buds and somatic embryos indicated that the former consisted of an apparent shoot meristem and several leaf primordia, and the latter had two distinct meristematic regions, corresponding to shoot and root meristems. Both shoot buds and somatic embryos developed into complete plantlets on PGR-F medium. Regenerated plants showed no observable morphological alterations. High proliferation and regeneration ability of these calluses were maintained for over 2 yr. 
24596335|Sugarcane (Saccharum spp. hybrids) is an important commodity field crop in tropical and subtropical countries providing sugar and biofuel feedstock and occupying a critical and strategic position in the global economy. This study was conducted to evaluate, compare, and optimize a rapid direct regeneration tissue culture system from immature leaf whorl and pre-emergent floral explants for three elite US sugarcane genotypes: CP84-1198, CP88-1762, and CP89-2143. Direct regeneration of adventitious shoot buds from the immature leaf roll explants and subsequent elongation and rooting of shoot buds was successfully obtained on modified Murashige and Skoog salt medium supplemented with 5 mg l -naphthaleneacetic acid and 0.5 mg l kinetin. Significant genotype-specific differences in the morphogenetic potential of leaf roll explants were discernible with the explant developmental stage (explant position along the leaf roll axis) and orientation during in vitro culture. The highest number of shoots was regenerated from CP88-1762, followed by CP89-2143 and CP84-1198 from explants closest to the meristem that were oriented horizontally (CP88-1762) or vertically (CP89-2143 and CP84-1198) on the culture medium. Immature inflorescence-derived explants from all three genotypes when cultured on the above medium for 2 wk rapidly produced shoots, followed by rooting on medium supplemented with 4 mg l indole-3-butyric acid. The regeneration protocols yielded robust rooted plantlets from immature leaf roll explants within 4 to 6 wk, which were readily acclimatized under greenhouse conditions.
4293069| Callus was initiated from either cormel slices or in vitro-grown plants of six Gladiolus cultivars cultured on Murashige and Skoog's basal salts medium supplemented with either 10 mg/liter (53.8 M) 1-naphthaleneacetic acid, 2 mg/liter (9.3 M) dicamba, or 0.5 mg/liter (2.2 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. More plants were regenerated from callus of the cultivar "Peter Pears" as compared to "Jenny Lee," "Florida Flame," or "Golden Year." No plants were regenerated from callus of "Rosa Supreme" or "Purity White." Plants were regenerated from 2 and 6-mo.-old suspension cells of "Jenny Lee" and "Peter Pears" but not from "Florida Flame." Cormel slices cultured on Murashige and Skoog's basal salts medium supplemented with 1 mg/liter (4.4 M) 6-benzylaminopurine regenerated plants from all six cultivars indicating a cultivar-independent system of plant regeneration. 
4293367|Plants were regenerated from cotyledon tissue of greenhouse grown seedlings of common buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum Moench.). Maximum callus regeneration was induced on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 2,4-D (
20065002|The effects of callus inoculation concentration and culture duration on somatic embryogenesis of orchardgrass, Dactylis glomerata L., were evaluated in suspension cultures of an embryogenic genotype, Embryogen-P. Somatic embryo formation was induced in liquid SH medium containing 30 M dicamba (SH-30 and 1.5% casein hydrolysate; embryo development was in liquid SH medium without plant growth regulators (SH-0); and embryo maturation and germination occurred on solid SH-0 medium. Callus proliferation in SH-30 suspension cultures was greatest when callus was inoculated into the liquid medium at a relatively high concentration of 4% (4 g callus/100 ml medium), but the induction of somatic embryos was highest in this medium if the callus was inoculated at a lower concentration (&lt2%). In a second experiment, somatic embryo yield was highest when SH-0 development medium was inoculated with suspension culture callus at 0.1% concentration and declined markedly as inoculation concentration increased. Cell concentration is a critical factor in regulating the somatic embryogenesis response in orchardgrass suspension cultures.
42568795|An efficient somatic embryogenesis and regeneration system was developed for the first time in onion using shoot apex expiants. These expiants were used to initiate callus in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 4.0 mg 1 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. The induction frequency of primary callus in this medium was 85.3%. The primary calli were then transferred onto medium supplemented with 2.0 mg 1 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Following two biweekly subcultures, embryogenic callus formed. Inclusion of a low concentration of 6-benzylaminopurine in the subculture medium promoted the formation of embryogenic callus. The addition of 2.0 mg 1 glycine, 690 mg 1 proline, and 1.0 g 1 casein hydrolysate also increased the frequency of callus induction and embryogenic callus formation. The highest frequency of embryogenic callus (86.9%) and greatest number of somatic embryos (26.3 per callus) were obtained by the further addition of 8.0 mg 1 silver nitrate. Somatic embryos formed plantlets on regeneration medium supplemented with 1.5 mg 1 6-benzylaminopurine; addition of 2.0 mg 1 glycine to the regeneration medium promoted a high frequency of regeneration (78.1%) and plantlet formation (28.7 plants per callus). The regenerated plantlets were transferred to half-strength MS medium supplemented with 1.5 mg 1 indole-3-butyric acid for root development; the maximum frequency of root formation was 87.7% and the average number of roots was 7.6 per shoot. The regenerated plantlets were successfully grown to maturity after hardening in the soil. This is the first report of somatic embryogenesis and regeneration from shoot apex expiants of onion.
4293394|Desiccation tolerance can be induced by culturing somatic embryos of loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.) on medium supplemented with 50  M abscisic acid (ABA) and/or 8.5% polyethylene glycol (
41496506|Previous studies have shown that Cucumber-FLOLFY(CFL) overexpression significantly promotes early flowering without a gibberellin (GA) supplement in gloxinia (Sinningia speciosa), suggesting that CFL can serve functionally as a LEAFY homolog. In the present study, different sucrose concentrations were applied to the culture medium to investigate the effects of sucrose on the development of excised flower buds and the regeneration of floral buds from sepals in wild-type and 35S::CFL gloxinia lines. The results showed that floral buds were formed directly from sepal expiants without prior formation of shoots and leaves in 35S::CFL gloxinia lines when 2% w/v sucrose was added. Conversely, 0% or 5% w/v sucrose inhibited the generation of flower buds from sepals and the opening of flowers. Semiquantitative PCR also showed that a medium with 5% w/v sucrose significantly inhibited MADS-box gene expression in wild type and much less significantly in 35S::CFL gloxinia. These data indicate that sucrose, as the main carbohydrate transported in floral organs, is a significant promoter of flower induction and maturity.
20064880|A cell suspension of French Sombre plantain banana (Musa spp. AAB genome) was initiated from callus obtained from young male flowers. Histological examination enabled us to describe and follow the evolution of the suspension consisting of: embryogenic aggregates, proembryos, nodules, and isolated cells. It demonstrated the unicellular origin of somatic embryos, either during maintenance of the suspension or after plating on a semisolid medium. The cells from which the embryos originated had no starch but only protein reserves. Plating 1 ml of packed cells from the suspension led to the formation of 10 embryos of which 10 to 40% could be converted into plantlets.
4293422|Nodal explants from hop were exposed to plant growth regulators to determine suitable media for initiation from axillary buds and subsequent micropropagation. Efficient culture establishment (96.6% of explants) was achieved on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (modified to contain
4293813| Media components used for three stages of development: (1) callus maintenance, (2) maturation of embryos, and (3) conversion of embryos to plants were shown to affect regeneration of plants for the commercially important red rose cultivar Kardinal. Embryogenic callus was maintained for 5 yr on either Schenk and Hildebrandt's basal salts medium (SH) supplemented with 13.6 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or Murashige and Skoog's basal salts medium (MS) supplemented with 18.1 M dicamba and 0.46 M kinetin. Maturation of embryos was three times higher using callus maintained on the SH medium supplemented with 2,4-D while conversion of cotyledonary-stage embryos to plants was significantly higher (10 times) using callus that had been maintained on MS medium with dicamba and kinetin. Maximum maturation (13.5%) and conversion (15.2%) occurred when callus was cultured on MS maturation medium without hormones. Cotyledonary-stage embryos cultured on MS conversion medium supplemented with abscisic acid (5-20 M) produced plants that survived at a significantly higher rate (two times) in the greenhouse than when embryos were cultured without abscisic acid. The highest rate of plant regeneration occurred when embryogenic callus of 'Kardinal' was maintained on MS medium supplemented with dicamba and kinetin, maturation of embryos occurred on MS maturation medium without hormones, and conversion of cotyledonary-stage embryos occurred on MS conversion medium supplemented with abscisic acid. 
29736181|Zygotic embryos at different developmental stages were tested for their potential in the initiation of embryogenic suspensor mass (ESM) lines using immature seeds of Pinus rigidaP. taeda. The highest frequency (1.1%) of ESM was obtained with explants from cones collected on July 1. All excised embryos of the July 1 collection were at the early proembryo stage. Two different culture media were compared. Forty-eight ESM lines were initiated on Pinus taeda basal medium (P6) (0.97%) with 13.5 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 4.4 M benzyladenine (BA). However, only four ESM were obtained on a modified Murashige and Skoog medium (MSG; 0.55%). Most of the ESM arose from the seeds that were at the stages ranging from late cleavage polyembryony to the early staged proembryo. Out of 52 lines (0.46%) that were produced from 11,388 explants, only two viable lines (0.018%) (PRT11 and PRT28) survived. As for somatic embryo maturation, the highest number (224/g FW) of mutured cotyledonary somatic embryos (line PRT 28) was obtained on a medium containing 100 M abscisic acid (ABA), 0.2 M maltose, and 1.2% gellan gum. For germination of the somatic embryos, the cotyledonary somatic embryos derived from maturation medium were transferred on half-strength Litvay medium (LM) plus 0.4% gellan gum. The germination rates were high (71.4-96.3%) regardless of the concentrations of either ABA or gellan gum in the maturation medium. Approximately 500 somatic plants were recovered from the germination medium and transferred to the green house; finally most of them were transplanted successfully to the experimental field.
23016583|This special issue is dedicated to the in vitro tools and methods used to conserve the genetic diversity of rare and threatened plant species from around the world. Species that are on the brink of extinction because of the rapid loss of genetic diversity and habitat come mainly from resource-poor areas of the world and from global biodiversity hotspots and island countries. These species are unique because they are endemic, and only a few small populations or sometimes only a few individuals remain in the wild. Therefore, the challenges to support conservation by in vitro measures are many and varied. The editors of this invited issue solicited papers from experts from Asia, Africa, Europe, Australia, and North and South America. This compilation of articles describes the efforts in these diverse regions toward saving plants from extinction, and details the direct application of in vitro and cryopreservation methods. In addition, these contributions provide guidance on propagation of rare plants, including techniques for large-scale propagation, storage, and reintroduction. The in vitro techniques for conserving plant biodiversity include shoot apical or axillary-meristem-based micropropagation, somatic embryogenesis, cell culture technologies and embryo rescue techniques, as well as a range of in vitro cold storage and cryopreservation protocols, and they are discussed in depth in this issue.
20461661|An efficient protocol was developed for in vitro clonal propagation of Curculigo orchioides Gaertn. through apical meristem culture. Multiple shoots were induced from apical meristems grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with 1.5 mg l 6-benzyladenine (BA), 100 mg l adenine sulfate (Ads) and 3% sucrose. Inclusion of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) or indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) in the culture medium improved the formation of multiple shoots. The highest frequency of multiplication was obtained on MS medium supplemented with 1.5 mg l BA, 100 mg l Ads, 0.25 mg l IBA and 3% sucrose. Rooting was achieved upon transferring the micro-shoots to half-strength MS medium containing 0.25 mg l IBA and 2% sucrose. Micropropagtated plantlets were hardened in the greenhouse and successfully established in soil.
4293943| A temporary immersion bioreactor system (TIB system) provides a convenient and efficient way to propagate plant material in vitro while requiring significantly lower labor input than conventional methods. The applicability of a TIB system for adventitious shoot regeneration from strawberry leaf explants was studied. Five commercial cultivars, i.e. Bounty, Jonsok, Korona, Polka, and Zephyr, were propagated in regeneration medium in commercially available TIB bioreactors (RITA) and, for comparison, on the same medium solidified with agar. The TIB system proved to be well suited for shoot propagation and for subsequent subculture of the developing plantlets. Regeneration frequencies were 70  8 to 94  2% and 83  5 to 92  3% in the TIB system and on semi-solid medium, respectively. The labor time taken by the TIB system was less than half of the time required for handling plant material for cultivation on semi-solid medium. This system thus provides a convenient method that could be adopted for commercial in vitro propagation or for regeneration of transgenic strawberry cultivars. 
40981325|The 'Da Jiao' cultivar of banana (Musa paradisiacal ABB Linn.) is an ideal germplasm to produce new banana varieties resistant to Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cubense (FOC) race 4, for this cultivar is not only a popular dessert banana in south China, but also bears high resistance to FOC race 4. In this study, we established a homogeneous embryognie cell suspension (ECS) of 'Da Jiao' and obtained regenerated plants from ECS-derived protoplasts via somatic embryogenesis. The ECS was initiated from yellow friable callus induced from immature male inflorescence on M1 medium. A pre-culture was used to select ECS in M2 medium without 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid for 10 d. Addition of 1.0 mg L abscisic acid to M3 medium could enhance the frequency of somatic embryogenesis by about 2.6-fold. Protoplasts, with a yield range of 5-610 per milliliter, were isolated from the ECS. About 0.35% of the protoplasts formed microcallus, which contained about 100 cells, after 1 mo of feeder layer culture with ECS of Musa acuminate cv. Mas (AA) as nurse cells. Healthy plantlets (0.14%) were regenerated from the microcallus through somatic embryogenesis.
4293716|Excised cotyledons from 8-d-old pumpkin (Cucurbita pepo L.) seedlings were inoculated with Agrobacterium rhizogenes and cultured on hormone-free Murashige and Skoog medium. At the site of inoculation, transformed hairy roots were successfully induced by using wild strains 8196 (mannopine-type) and 15834 (agropine-type). After a subsequent transfer on a solid MS medium without hormones, roots obtained by transformation with strain 15834 failed to form stable hairy root cultures, while several hairy root lines were established with strain 8196. Three hairy root lines, Cp1, Cp2, and Cp31, have spontaneously generated callus with embryo-like structures after more than 3 yr of growth on the solid medium. The callus proliferation was more frequent when the autoclaving of nutrient medium, pH 5.7, was prolonged to 30 min. Separated calluses continued to proliferate and generated embryos with abnormal morphology. The combination of indole-3-acetic acid and benzyladenine had a favorable influence on embryogenesis and organogenesis in the Cp31 callus line. The Southern analysis of Cp31 root and embryo DNA confirmed the presence of the T-DNA of Agrobacterium rhizogenes.
20171598| Advances in the development of subunit vaccines and in the production of foreign proteins in plants together offer the prospect of stable and inexpensive vaccine delivery systems. Various bacterial and viral proteins stably produced in plants have been shown to elicit immune responses in feeding trials. We have extended this approach by using Zea mays as the plant production system. Corn has several advantages as a vaccine delivery vehicle, most notably established technologies to generate transgenic plants, to optimize traits through breeding and to process the seed into a palatable form. Here we report on the production in corn seed of the GM receptor binding (B) subunit of the heat-labile toxin (Lt) from enterotoxigenic strains of Escherichia coli. Versions of the Lt-B gene were synthesized to give optimum codon usage for corn and to target the protein to either the cell surface or the cytoplasm. These synthetic genes were fused to a strong promoter and transformed into corn. Lt-B was highly expressed in corn seed at up to 1.8% of the total soluble protein and this was further increased approximately five-fold through plant breeding. As in E. coli, Lt-B produced in corn forms a functional pentamer that can bind to the GM receptor. Furthermore, Lt-B pentamer stored in corn seed is much more resistant to heat than is the pure protein, allowing the transgenic corn to be readily processed into an edible form. This work demonstrates the potential of using products derived from transgenic corn seed as delivery vehicles for subunit vaccines. 
4293057| Liquid medium and an enriched agar were used to detect endophytic bacteria in micropropagated mints (Mentha spp.) within 2 to 6 d of inoculation. Bacteria isolated from the cultures were screened on several antibiotic concentrations to determine bactericidal doses. Antibiotics were also tested for phytotoxic effects. Shoot tips from infected plants were treated by immersion in liquid MS medium containing antibiotics either singly or in combination. Streptomycin applied at 1000 g/ml for a period of 10 d was effective and less phytotoxic in a larger number of cases than gentamicin (50 g/ml), neomycin (500 g/ml), or rifampicin (30 g/ml). Mint cultures that tested negative for bacteria after antibiotic treatment were multiplied, retested, and cold-stored for 1 yr or longer. Upon regrowth after storage, 25 of 30 treated cultures (83%) tested negative for bacteria. Of the 25, 8 were successfully treated with streptomycin, 1 with gentamicin, 2 with neomycin, 1 with rifampicin, and 1 with streptomycin and gentamicin; 12 required more than one treatment. An early detection system, initial trial treatment with streptomycin for infected plants, and monitoring of treated cultures successfully reduced the spread of bacterial contamination. Antibiotic treatment in liquid MS medium at pH 6.9 resulted in enhanced bactericidal activity over that seen at pH 5.5. 
4293147| We analyzed four factors (phosphate and nitrate salts, sucrose, and culture inoculum age), simultaneously at three levels using a fractional factorial design method to determine the most suitable conditions for maximizing both root biomass and terpenoid production in transformed Artemisia annua root cultures. Optimal growth conditions were determined to be: nitrate (15 mM), phosphate (1.0 mM), sucrose content (5% wt/vol), and inoculum age (8 d-old). Determination of optimal conditions for sesquiterpene production was more complicated than for biomass production. For most experiments artemisinic acid was undetectable especially in experiments where phosphate was greater than 0.5 mM and for nearly all culture inoculum ages of 14 d. Artemisinic acid was also never detected whenever arteannuin B was present. Arteannuin B was the major artemisinic compound detected in these experiments, sometimes at levels exceeding 300 g/g fresh weight. When the sum of artemisinin and its three precursors is analyzed, three factors (sucrose, nitrate, and inoculum age) are heavily dependent on one another, and in conjunction with possible degradation of artemisinin by peroxidase, the current analysis does not provide a clear picture regarding the most effective conditions for maximizing the production of artemisinin. 
41496440|In vitro propagation of neem (Azadirachta indica A. Juss.) may offer an efficient alternative to seed propagation of this species. For optimization of in vitro propagation, different basal salt formulations, growth regulators, and culture container sealants (polytetrafluoroethylene hydrophobic membranes [PTFE]) were evaluated. Nodal segments cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium showed the highest shoot formation per expiant (1.67). Explants cultured in flasks containing MS medium with 0.5 mg L benzyladenine, 0.5 mg L kinetin, and 0.05 mg L naphthaleneacetic acid, and sealed with two PTFE membranes, produced the highest number of shoots (4.04). In contrast, explants cultured in flasks without membranes showed leaf chlorosis and senescence. For plant recovery, regenerants were acclimatized in a substrate of coconut fiber and eucalyptus bark (1: 1) and showed 80% survival. Our results indicated that the use of flasks with vents was beneficial for in vitro propagation of this important plant.
20171601| An efficient plant regeneration protocol has been developed from root explants of Psoralea corylifolia L., an endangered medicinally important herbaceous plant species belonging to the family Fabaceae. Nodular embryogenic callus was initiated from young root segments cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (1962) supplemented with -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA; 2.68-13.42 M) or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D; 2.25-11.25 M) in combination with 6-benzylaminopurine (BA; 2.2 M), thiamine HCl (2.9 M), L-glutamine (342.23 M) and sucrose (3.0%, w/v). The highest frequency (95.2%) of embryogenic calluses was obtained on MS medium supplemented with the growth regulators NAA (10.74 M) and BA (2.2 M). Development and maturation of somatic embryos was achieved after transfer of embryogenic calluses to MS medium supplemented with 1.34 M NAA or 1.12 M 2,4-D and 4.4-13.2 M BA. The maximum number (13.8  1.34) of cotyledonary-stage somatic embryos was obtained on MS medium containing 1.34 M NAA and 13.2 M BA. Germination of somatic embryos occurred on MS medium without any growth regulators and also on MS medium enriched with BA (1.1-8.8 M), although the maximum germination frequency (76.1%) was obtained on 4.4 M BA plus 1.45 M gibberellic acid (GA). Plant regeneration without complete somatic embryo maturation was also achieved by transferring clumps of nodular embryogenic calluses onto MS0 medium or MS medium supplemented with NAA (1.34 M) and BA (2.2-8.8 M). The highest frequency of plant regeneration (93.3%) and mean number of plantlets (15.4  0.88) were obtained on MS medium containing 1.34 M NAA and 4.4 M BA. Regenerated plants with well-developed root systems were transferred to pots where they grew vigorously, attained maturity and produced fertile seeds. 
4293595|Protoplasts were isolated from Agrobacterium rhizogenes
4293504|This report reviews the contributions to the improvement of sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) through traditional approaches with emphasis on the application of biotechnological methods. Strategies include breeding for higher yield, improved grain quality, and biotic and abiotic stress tolerance. Hybrid development and polyploidy breeding are also discussed. Plant breeders, working in concert with biotechnologists, have developed new powerful tools for plant genetic manipulation and genotype evaluation that will significantly improve the efficiency of plant breeding. Improving sorghum through biotechnology is the latest in a long series of technologies that have been applied to this crop. Five basic tools of technology have been developed for sorghum improvement: (1) in vitro protocols for efficient plant regeneration; (2) molecular markers; (3) gene identification and cloning; (4) genetic engineering and gene transfer technology to integrate desirable traits into the sorghum genome; and (5) genomics and germplasm databases. Reports on studies involving the problems, progress, and prospects for utilizing the biotechnological methods for sorghum improvement are discussed.
20541008|Tissue and cell culture systems are vital to many areas of maize research and improvement. Efficient shoot regeneration remains a limiting factor for most elite lines. To enhance shoot regeneration, calluses derived from immature embryos of four genotypes were subjected to 6, 12, 24, 48, and 72 h of desiccation on sterile filter paper before shoot induction. We achieved up to 32% desiccation (measured as mass) and 48% imbibition (measured as mass gain in 48 h incubation) which was 3.4-fold higher than nondesiccated controls. This rapid desiccation/imbibition procedure enhanced shoot regeneration and development, but its efficiency was crucially dependent on the degree and duration of desiccation. All four genotypes calluses regenerated shoots best after 48 h of desiccation corresponding to a 23.7% average desiccation percentage, and regeneration frequencies reached 42-74%, which increased 1.5-2.1-fold compared with that of nondesiccated calluses. The effect of desiccation treatment on the shoot regeneration increase took place mainly during the early phase of induction. The weekly average shoot regeneration frequency of calluses with 48 h desiccation in the first wk reached 8.8% (the control was no regeneration); then it increased 3.0 and 2.3-fold in the second and third wk induction, respectively. We demonstrate that the moderate desiccation of calluses increases the yield of shoot regeneration and speeds up regeneration course in maize.
4293831|In vitro clonal propagation of 18-20-yr-old Holarrhena antidysenterica trees has been achieved by employing nodal explants. The tree explants showed marked seasonal variation in their morphogenic response under in vitro conditions. Maximum response was obtained from the beginning of May to the end of July, followed by a gradual decline, finally dropping to zero from October to February. The explants induced multiple shoots only on cytokinin-containing medium. Several cytokinins [
20541051|Commercial micropropagation of sugarcane is largely determined by the clonal fidelity and the cost of plants produced. Rapid production of plants in vitro reduces the frequency of offtypes in many species. By exploiting the concept of transverse thin cell layer culture, we have developed a rapid, high frequency direct plant regeneration system, called SmartSett, for commercial sugarcane cultivars grown in Australia. Similar to conventional micropropagation, labour remains the major cost of this plant production system. Hence, to reduce the labour component, we have integrated the SmartSett system with the RITA temporary immersion bioreactor. Thin transverse leaf sections or fragmented leaves cultured on agar-based SmartSett shoot induction medium were used as the starting material for RITA. Shoot initiation on semi-solid medium prior to transferring to RITA, culture immersion frequency, explant size and genotype determined the productivity (number of plants produced per unit culture) of the system. Results obtained with cultivar Q165 indicate that explants cultured for 45 d on SmartSett shoot induction medium were the most prolific, producing on average 275 shoots per vessel after 45 d of culture in RITA with 1 min immersion every 12 or 24 h. Using the fragmented tissue, 14-d-old explants and 3-mm leaf tissue fragments were the most productive. Experiments with three cultivars (Q117, Q165 and Q205) showed that RITA culture conditions need to be optimised for each cultivar for maximum plant production.
42568823|Nitric oxide (NO) plays diverse roles in the growth and development of plants. The effects of a NO donor, sodium nitroprusside (SNP), on shoot multiplication and regeneration of Vanilla planifolia Andrews have been studied. Nodal segments of V. planifolia were used as expiants to initiate shoots. The number of shoots per expiant showed a significant increase in the presence of SNP and more than 93% of expiants formed shoots. Supplementation of 10.0 M SNP to Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium containing 1.0 mg/L 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP) produced the highest number of shoots per expiant (10.33) after 60 d of culture. However, in this treatment, shoot length (3.76 cm) was less than in the other treatments, except for the plant growth regulator-free MS medium. MS medium containing only 1.0 mg/L BAP produced the highest shoot length (4.49 cm) with a mean number of 6.26 shoots per expiant. These findings indicate that NO stimulated shoot development and may be considered as an intermediary of adventitious shoot regeneration, as has been suggested for other plant species.
42568439|Studies on the mass production of high-quality plantlets in Gypsophila paniculata L. using a bioreactor and microponic system (a hydroponic system in which micropropagation shoots are planted) indicated that both aeration treatments, in which bioreactors were aerated from the top of expiants by sparger (AS) and by tub (AT), were more effective than unaerated treatment for shoot proliferation and growth, and the maximum shoots (15.7 shoots per expiant) with low hyperhydricity rate (2.9%) were found in the AS group. The ex vitro culture was more efficient for rooting when compared to the in vitro culture; the better shoot and root growth was obtained in the ex vitro culture, with rooting rate reaching 100% after 20 d of culture, but only 65% of m vitro shoots rooted; all stomata of ex vitro shoots closed, and their length was more than their width, but the stomata in in vitro shoots were all opened, the length close to the width. Furthermore, the stomata numbers were less in ex vitro (67.8) than in vitro (267.2). The survival rate of ex vitro plants reached 83.3% when plantlets derived in vitro and ex vitro were transferred to pots, while only 23.3% of in vitro plantlets survived. During ex vitro rooting with the microponic system, foam as the supporter material, 90 molm-s- of light, and 80 shoots of planting density were favorable for shoot and root growth. The combination of bioreactor and microponic systems is an efficient way to produce high-quality plantlets of G. paniculata. Their application can reduce costs during large-scale industrial production.
42568713|An efficient root induction system has been established for in vitro-regenerated Jatropha curcas L. shoots. Callus formation on shoots transferred to auxin containing medium was found to be a prominent and recurrent problem for rooting of in vitro-cultivated J. curcas. In particular, the type of auxins and cytokinins applied in the culture media were shown to strongly influence the severity of callus formation. Shoots cultivated on meta-methoxytopolin riboside (MemTR) were free of callus and produced elongated stems and well-developed leaves in comparison to the cytokinins benzyl adenine, zeatin, and thidiazuron. Subsequent root induction experiments were performed with shoots precultured on MemTR-containing medium. Shoots were excised and transferred to Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with different concentrations of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), and ot-naphtaleneacetic acid (NAA). The induction of excessive callus formation was avoided only on IBA-containing medium. The optimum rooting medium with good root induction (35%) and 1.2 roots per shoot contained half-strength MS salts supplemented with 2.5 M IBA. The same medium supplemented with 0.25% (w/v) activated charcoal produced 46% rooted shoots. Further improvement of rooting was obtained by transferring in vitro grown shoots to woody plant medium containing phloroglucinol (PG). In the presence of 2.5 M IBA and 238 M PG, 83% of the shoots rooted with on average 3.1 roots per shoot. We also analyzed the impact of light quality on the rooting capacity of Jatropha in vitro grown shoots. In general, lightemitting diodes (LEDs) light sources were less efficient for root induction. Red LED light provided the most favorable growth conditions, inducing a rooting response in 65% of the shoots, which produced on average 5.5 roots per shoot. These results indicate that adventitious rooting in J. curcas is under control of photoreceptors and that optimal rooting requires fine-tuning of the salt concentration, auxin, and cytokinin balance and application of synergistic compounds.
4293597|The influence of different adjuvants, activated charcoal (AC), casein hydrolyzate (CH), coconut water (CW), polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP), and triiodobenzoic acid (TIBA), has been assessed on the shoot production potential of the nodal explants derived from in vitro-raised male and female jojoba (Simmondsia chinensis) shoots. Nodal explants of each sex were cultured separately on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with different levels of AC, CW, CH, PVP, and TIBA either alone or along with optimum levels of
20171624|Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) markers were employed to detect genetic variation among species of Papaver (section Oxytona) and assess genetic fidelity between in vitro cell lines of Papaver bracteatum and mature plants derived from the propagation of their callus cultures. Regenerated plants exhibited morphological and phytochemical characteristics dissimilar to those of their source material. Thebaine, the dominant alkaloid produced by Papaver bracteatum, was not detected in capsules from mature regenerated accessions, indicating that there may have been a loss of genetic uniformity. Instead, the dominant alkaloid produced by the regenerated plant was shown to be isothebaine (by TLC and GC/MS), a metabolic characteristic of P. pseudo-orientale. A Neighbor-Joining tree constructed from AFLP fingerprints distinctly separates the three species of Oxytona while firmly grouping the in vitro-cultured plants with P. pseudo-orientale. Additionally, phytochemical data and chromosome counts indicate that the seed used to initiate cultures was of hybrid origin and that the loss in genetic uniformity was not due to somaclonal variation occurring during the in vitro culture process. AFLP fingerprinting was therefore able to differentiate Oxytona species and investigate allopolyploidy in closely related Papaver species.
20171607| Development of efficient in vitro propagation systems for Pelecyphora aselliformis Ehrenberg and P. strobiliformis Werdermann, two endangered Mexican species of cacti, are described. Multiple shoot formation from areoles of in vitro-germinated plantlets was achieved in two types of explants (apical and transversal) cultured in Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal media supplemented with 30 or 50 gl sucrose, 10 gl agar and various treatments with cytokinins. Shoot production in these proliferation media was evaluated after one (60 d) and three (180 d) culture cycles. In P. aselliformis 13.7 shoots per explant were produced after the first cycle using apical explants in medium with 8.8 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 30 gl sucrose. In P. strobiliformis the highest proliferation rate (12.4 shoots per explant) was reached using 8.8 M BA and 50 gl sucrose with shoot transverse segments as explants. After the third proliferation cycle, 128.1 and 136.3 shoots per explant were obtained in P. aselliformis and P. strobiliformis, respectively. The shoots were elongated in MS basal medium with 3 gl activated charcoal and rooted in MS basal media with indoleacetic acid (2.85 or 5.71 M) or indolebutyric acid (2.46 or 4.90 M). On average, rooting efficiency was 89% for P. aselliformis and 87% for P. strobiliformis. The survival frequency of the plants once transferred to soil was on average 88%. 
23255675|Xyris tennesseensis is a critically endangered species native to the southeastern USA. A micropropagation protocol was developed which may assist in the safeguarding and augmentation of dwindling natural populations of this ecologically and medically valuable plant. Four different batches of seeds were sterilized using hydrogen peroxide and germinated in vitro on modified one third-strength Murashige and Skoog medium. Shoot multiplication from seedling tissue was obtained using modified one third-strength Murashige and Skoog medium containing 1 mg/l kinetin and 0.10.5 mg/l -naphthaleneacetic acid. Optimal shoot size and sustainable multiplication rates of three to five per 2-mo subculture occurred on medium containing 0.30.4 mg/l -naphthaleneacetic acid. Shoots rooted successfully when placed on growth regulator-free medium for 10 d followed by transfer to greenhouse soil under high humidity. Use of seed cryopreservation resulted in significant increases in germination compared to control treatments with average germination rates of 97%. Shoot tip cultures from soil-grown plants of X. tennesseensis and Xyris spathifolia were also developed using the above protocols. Plant tissue culture tools will assist in the multiplication, long-term storage, and conservation of these rare and valuable plants as well as provide a template for the micropropagation of other Xyris species.
20064938|The heat shock (HS) response in callus cultures of the ornamental plant Gerbera jamesonii H. Bolus var. hybrida was analyzed. A HS at 35 C or 40 C for 4 h induced (a) the synthesis of several heat shock proteins (HSPs), especially in the small molecular weight range and some spots corresponding to HSP70 components, and (b) an increase in the steady state levels of some specific mRNAs. At the nonstressing temperature (26 C), a sustainable level of translation for HSP70 was indeed carried out, as confirmed by immunological analysis with a monoclonal antibody against cotton HSP70. The steady state levels of mRNAs measured before and after a HS by Northern hybridization showed an increase with the heterologous probes HSP17.4, HSP17.6, and HSP21, whereas the probes HSC70 and HSP70 did not show any difference between the levels of control and HS-mRNAs. A pretreatment at 35 C, which induced a set of HSPs in the callus cultures, decreased the cell damage upon exposure to a temperature of 45 C as determined either with a regrowth test or by the tetrazolium reduction assay. Typically, as with the whole plants, callus cultures of Gerbera jamesonii possessed the ability to respond to HS both by inducing HSPs and by developing an acquired thermotolerance.
41318716|The objective of this study was to establish a cryopreservation protocol for sour orange (Citrus aurantium L.). Cryopreservation was carried out via encapsulation dehydration, vitrification, and encapsulation vitrification on shoot tips excised from in vitro cultures. Results indicated that a maximum of 83% survival and 47% regrowth of encapsulateddehydrated and cryopreserved shoot tips was obtained with 0.5 M sucrose in the preculture medium and further dehydration for 6 h to attain 18% moisture content. Dehydration of encapsulated shoot tips with silica gel for 2 h resulted in 93% survival but only 37% regrowth of cryopreserved shoot tips. After preculturing with 0.5 M sucrose, 80% of the vitrified cryopreserved shoots survived when 2 M sucrose plus 10% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) was used as a cryoprotectant for 20min at 25C. Survival and regrowth of vitrified cryopreserved shoot tips were 67% and 43%, respectively, when 0.4 M sucrose plus 2 M glycerol was used as a loading solution followed by application of 100% plant vitrification solution (PVS2) for 20 min. Increased duration of exposure to the loading solution up to 60 min increased survival (83%) and regrowth (47%) of cryopreserved shoot tips. With encapsulation-vitrification, dehydration with 100% PVS2 for 2 or 3 h at 0C resulted in 50 or 57% survival and 30 or 40% regrowth, respectively, of cryopreserved shoot tips.
4293815|Few studies have focused on the effect of a broad range of phytohormones on growth and secondary metabolism of a single hairy root species. We measured growth, development, and production of the antimalarial drug, artemisinin, in Artemisia annua hairy roots in response to the five main hormones: auxins, cytokinins, ethylene, gibberellins (GA), and abscisic acid (ABA). Single roots grown in six-well plates in medium B5 with
4293917|Callus cultures of Adhatoda zeylanica Medicus were established from leaf and petiole explants. Accumulation of a bioactive pyrroloquinazoline alkaloid, vasicine, in callus cultures was detected and confirmed by thin layer chromatography, electron-ionization mass spectra,
29736222|The present study describes the micropropagation of Swertia chirayita, an endangered medicinal herb of the temperate Himalayas, through axillary multiplication from 4-wk-old seedling-derived nodal explants. We obtained 4.5-fold multiplication every 4 wk on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 4 M benzyl amino purine (BA) and 1.5 M 6-(,-dimethylallylamino) purine (2iP). Rooting was optimized on modified MS medium supplemented with 1 M naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) and 500 mg l of activated charcoal (AC). A success rate of 94% was obtained by in vitro hardening in the growth-room and by ex vitro hardening in greenhouse conditions. The present study can serve as a tool for the mass multiplication of elite genotypes of this critically endangered species and can also be utilized for multiplying large numbers of quality planting material for the replantation in their natural habitat. This approach can also help meet the requirements of the growing pharmaceutical industry by ensuring the regular supply of authentic planting material.
29736201|Micropropagation methods were developed for the three French varieties of olive (Olea europaea L.), Aglandau and Tanche, that have the Appelation d'Origine Contrle (AOC) status and one ecotype (05300, Laragne, France). Explants consisting of partially lignified nodal segments were collected from rejuvenated glasshouse-grown plant material. Nodal explants with axillary buds were cultured on different media. For AOC varieties, olive medium modified (OM mod) to contain half the concentration of macroelements was the most efficient in inducing bud break and growth when supplemented with 30 g 1 sucrose and 4 mg l zeatin. The resulting shoot buds were further multiplied and maintained on OM mod medium. Rooting was best achieved on OM supplemented with 4 mg l indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). For the Laragne ecotype, maximal shoot proliferation occurred when explants were cultured on woody plant medium supplemented with 15 g 1 sucrose and 0.1 mg l zeatin. Efficient rooting was achieved with 1 mg l IBA combined with 0.75 mg l naphthaleneacetic acid. After acclimatization in the glasshouse, survival rates ranged from 57 to 92%, depending on the genotype. Inoculation of Laragne ecotype microplantlets with the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus mosseae significantly improved plant survival and subsequent plant development and growth.
20461707|An efficient in vitro plant regeneration system was established from callus culture of Scopolia parviflora. Callus was induced from adventitious roots on B5 medium with 0.45-9.04 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). In vitro plantlet regeneration was achieved on B5 medium supplemented with 44.38 M benzyladenine (BA), 3% sucrose, and 0.38% gelrite. Plantlets were transplanted to artificial soil and grown to maturity successfully in a greenhouse. The tropane alkaloid contents in regenerated plants were analyzed using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and were found to be higher than those of adventitious roots, native growing plants, and acclimated plants. Regenerated plants from organogenic callus cultures produced a greater amount of tropane alkaloids.
20064970|Micropropagation of Uraria picta, a leguminous herb, was achieved through axillary bud culture and nodal callus culture. Bud break was best when nodes were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (1962) (MS) medium supplemented with 2.6 M -naphthalene acetic acid and 4.4 M N-benzyladenine. Optimum shoot multiplication was observed in adenine sulphate at 2.47 M concentration. Competent callus was initiated around the nodal ring of the explant on the basal medium supplemented with cytokinins and auxin (-naphthalene acetic acid and N-benzyladenine), which regenerated into new profusely growing shoots on transferring to 0.13 M N-benzyladenine. Shoots elongated to 5 node length with 1.11 M N-benzyladenine were rooted on half-strength MS basal medium. The rooted plants were successfully established with 80% survival. About 400 such plants were transferred to the field.
41496448|Effective seed storage methods for orchid species provide a unique opportunity to preserve large amounts of germplasm. Early evaluation of the physiological status of seeds is useful for selecting seed lots for conservation. To score seed quality, seeds from nine Cattleya species (Cattleya granulosa, Cattleya hegeriana, Cattleya intermedia, Cattleya mossiae, Cattleya purpurata, Cattleya sanguiloba, Cattleya tennis, Cattleya tigrina and Cattleya walkeriana) were germinated on Knudson medium and viability was measured using a tetrazolium (TZ) test following pre-conditioning in a 10% sucrose solution, both before and after storage at -18C for 3 mo. Tetrazolium test results were quantified using digital imaging of germinating seeds on a flatbed scanner. Seed viability (with or without pre-conditioning in sucrose), germination, Germination Velocity Index (GVI) and the correlation between viability measurements and germination were also evaluated. Both the tetrazolium test and the germination results showed that there was no loss of viability after storage, although in five seed lots, the GVI decreased. Pre-conditioning improved the correlation between viability exhibited in the tetrazolium test and seed germination. Image analysis proved to be a powerful tool for analysing these small seeds.
40981331|Response surface methodology (RSM) is a collection of techniques useful for analyzing and optimizing problems where several explanatory covariates influence a response. Although this technique is extensively used in various mixture experiments, its application in standardization of micropropagation protocols is limited. The theoretical developments of RSM are usually concerned with continuous data; hence, linear model theory becomes relevant. In plant tissue culture, in which the response variables are mostly numerical data, the development of RSM in a generalized linear model (GLM) setup is of interest from both a theoretical as well as an application perspective. In the present paper, RSM, as applicable for count data, has been used for modeling, analyzing, and optimizing in vitro regeneration of multiple shoots of Basilicum polystachyon, an important medicinal plant. The specific issues addressed herein are the determination of the optimum concentration of plant growth regulators (i.e., the range of variation in dosages of each covariate) at which the regeneration potential of shoot tip expiants is expected to increase, selection of the appropriate growth function (response function) of shoot tip, and determination of the optimum levels of the explanatory variables (i.e., the different combination of dosages of various control factors) for experimentation. According to the present analysis, the optimum level combinations of growth regulators for regeneration of multiple shoots from shoot tip expiants of B. polystachyon is 8.19 M benzyladenine and 2.36 M naphthalene acetic acid, with a response of approximately 12 regenerated shoots.
41432440|In vitro propagation of three rare, endangered and endemic rhododendron speciesRhododendron dalhousiae var. rhabdotum, R. elliottii, and R. johnstoneanumwas attained. Nodal explants were used for multiple shoot induction studies. Three cytokinins (isopentenyladenine, benzyladenine, and kinetin) were evaluated in all three species. Isopentenyladenine performed better in all three species, especially at the concentration of 39.36 M. Testing of combinations of growth regulators revealed that explants grown on Anderson medium supplemented with 39.36 M isopentenyladenine and 4.90 M ndole butyric acid gave optimum results with 100% multiple shoot induction, 18 shoots per explant, and shoot length of 2.07 cm with R. johnstoneanum. Indole butyric acid was found to be the best auxin for root formation. Around 60% of the in vitroraised plants of R. elliottii, R. johnstoneanum, and R. dalhousiae var. rhabdotum were able to establish ex vitro.
20461757|The activity of the main enzymes related to the sucrose metabolism, photosynthesis, and sucrose concentration were studied in sugarcane (Saccharum spp hybrid) plantlets. Acclimatization was developed in two steps. (1) Light intensity of 1,000 mol m s and 90% relative humidity during the first 21 d; followed by 2,000 mol m s and approximately 80% of relative humidity. All measurements were carried out at the end of rooting phase concomitant with day 0 of acclimatization and at 7-d intervals thereafter (0, 7, 14, 21, 28, 35, 42 d). As the in vitro plantlets were transferred to the acclimatization phase, photosynthesis increased significantly during the first 7 d. After this period, the increase was constant with only a small but nonsignificant decline after being transferred to the uncontrolled external conditions. The activity of the sucrose synthase began to show a decrease, starting from day 7, and was related to the changes that began to happen in these plants from its adaptation to new ex vitro conditions. Due to the increase of fresh weight favored by the high light intensity and lower relative humidity, an increase of the sucrose phosphate synthase activity was observed. The maximum activity of the acid and neutral invertases was reached at 14 and 21 d, respectively, after 21 d of acclimatization period. There was a marked tendency for the activity of both enzymes to decrease. The sucrose content was decreased only in the first 7 d. The metabolism of sugarcane plantlets seemed to be susceptible to the environmental changes during the acclimatization phase but did not contribute to inhibitory factors for normal development.
20064981|An efficient procedure is outlined for in vitro regeneration of an epiphytic orchid, Cymbidium aloifolium (L.) Sw. using rhizomes developed from seeds. Murashige and Skoog's (1962) medium (MS) containing indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), or 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) stimulated growth and proliferation of rhizomes with NAA being most effective at
24596340|Several dehydration protocols were evaluated for their ability to cryopreserve intact seeds and excised embryonic axes of Mimusops elengi and Manilkara zapota (Sapotaceae). Both interspecific and intraspecific variations in cryotolerance were found. M. zapota embryonic axes were more tolerant of cryopreservation than those of M. elengi, and showed higher desiccation tolerance, higher post-thawing survival and development, and a much wider range of moisture contents for cryopreservation. Maximum development rates were 94% and 27% for M. zapota and M. elengi, respectively. Intact seeds of both species tolerated desiccation to low moisture levels, but were sensitive to liquid nitrogen exposure, and cryopreserved seeds failed to germinate. Assessment of developing embryos excised from cryopreserved seeds associated nonviability of cotyledons and plumules with germination failure. Other structures survived at variable rates; most hypocotyls and radicles (up to 76% and 98% for M. elengi and M. zapota, respectively) were viable. The different cryotolerance between hypocotyls and cotyledons is a critical cause for failure in cryopreservation, contributing to the difficulty in developing protocols for such intermediate oily seeds.
20171620|Somatic embryogenic callus was induced on two induction media, B5h and SH4K. Embryos formed on the callus induced on B5h medium when the callus was still on the induction medium. On the other hand, embryos could not form on the callus induced on SH4K medium unless the callus was transferred to a growth regulator-free medium. Callus induced and maintained on B5h medium lost embryogenic capability quickly during the subculture. Callus induced and maintained on SH4K medium, however, consistently remained highly embryogenic. The callus mass showed steady increase during its maintenance on SH4K medium. The embryos induced on SH4K medium showed vigorous germination. Normal and fully fertile plants were recovered from the embryos developed from the callus maintained on SH4K medium.
20461597|This study reports the analysis of secondary metabolites of gentiopicrin, swertiamarin, and sweroside in shoot and root cultures of yellow wort (Blackstonia perfoliata), which were initiated from seeds, grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium. Shoot cultures of B. perfoliata were inoculated with suspension of Agrobacterium rhizogenes strain A4M70GUS and hairy roots appeared at the infected sites after 3 wk of inoculation. Tips of adventitious roots of B. perfoliata were grown on hormone-free MS medium and three clones of the transformed roots regenerated shoots spontaneously. Gentiopicrin, swertiamarin, and sweroside were detected in both roots and shoots of B. perfoliata in vitro and in vivo, but gentiopicrin was found to be the major compound. The concentration of growth regulator in the medium affected the production of secoiridoids in B. perfoliata in vitro, where the level of gentiopicrin was higher in plants grown in the presence of indole-3-butyric acid, but the presence of 6-benzylaminopurine was inhibitory to secoiridoid production.
23326879|Citrus jambhiri (rough lemon) is considered a major rootstock source for a number of Citrus species. A simple method for micropropagation from nodal segments is reported. Nodal segments of C. jambhiri were inoculated on MS medium supplemented with different concentrations and combinations of 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP), kinetin, and N6-(2-isopentenyl) adenosine (2iP). Maximum multiple shoot regeneration response (75 %) was observed with BAP at 3 mg l -1 . Shoots were multiplied for 30 d on fresh medium with similar composition. A total of 67 % of the cultures showed multiplication with the optimum number of shoots (4.02) and height of shoots (1.81 cm) with BAP (3 mg l -1 ) alone. Maximum rooting response (87 %) was observed with naphthaleneacetic acid at 0.5 mg l -1 . Transverse sections of shoot stems obtained in vivo (sampled from seedlings) and in vitro (regenerated from nodal segments), showed similar anatomies. Randomly amplified polymorphic DNA analysis confirmed that all the regenerated plants were genetically identical to their donor plant, suggesting absence of detectable genetic variation in the regenerated plantlets.
4292976|A rapid regeneration system was used for studies of Agrobacterium-mediated transformation in Pisum sativum L. Cotyledonary node expiants were inoculated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains containing binary vectors carrying genes for nopaline synthase (NOS),
4293467|With an ever-increasing frequency, it has become desirable to express many foreign genes in the same transgenic plant. A range of approaches to this problem have been explored in the period since gene transfer was developed as a useful tool in plant science. These have ranged from assembly of multiple transcription units on a single DNA vector, to the execution of several independent transformations involving single genes followed by successive rounds of hybridization to yield plant lines with the desired combination of genes, to cotransformation with multiple plasmids followed by molecular screening to identify desired transgenic plants. Recent developments have provided new alternatives to the problem of the expression of multiple foreign genes in plants, approaches that revolve around the expression of polycistronic mRNAs. This review summarizes the current status of the area of polycistronic gene expression in transgenic plants, within the context of multigene expression.
4293934|In its androgenic response, maize is considered to be a recalcitrant plant. We used mechanically isolated microspores of maize genotype A18 to establish a responsive microspore culture of maize. Morphological events occurring during the first days of maize androgenesis in a microspore culture were observed and described, and some morphological markers for distinguishing between embryogenic microspores and nonembryogenic microspores were identified. It was found that the enlargement of microspores during the first days in culture and the 'star-like' organization of the cytoplasm inside the microspore are connected with reprogramming of the developmental pathway in maize microspores. Some differences were also found in the surface wall architecture of embryogenic microspores. Fertile plants were successfully recovered from microspore-originated structures.
4293165|Callus of the mangrove plant, Sonneratia alba J. Smith, established from pistils of flower buds were cultured on solid Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 0 to 500 mM NaCl. Maximum growth was observed with 50 mM NaCl, and net growth of callus occurred for concentrations up to 200 mM NaCl. At 500 mM NaCl, growth of callus was completely inhibited, although a part of the tissue was still alive after 30 d. Cellular levels of Na
4293516|A procedure for the regeneration of complete plantlets of Tylophora indica from cultured leaf callus via somatic embryogenesis is described. Callus induction from leaf explants was on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with different concentrations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D;
29736226|Mammillaria species are the most numerous within Cactaceae family, and some of them are threatened with extinction as a result of human activities. In this work, results of in vitro propagation are presented for ten Mammillaria species, testing 20 combinations of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and kinetin. Best results on shoot formation were obtained using kinetin at two levels: 27.9 and 46.5 M. All IAA levels tested were able to induce de novo shoot formation in M. bocasana, M. densispina, M. hahniana, M. hutchisoniana, M. orcutii, M. pectinifera, M. perbella, M. picta, M. rhodantha, and M. zephyranthoides. Depending on the IAA level tested, four responding groups were observed concerning their highest shoot-formation number. For all species, the highest average of shoot formation was achieved with 5.7:46.5 or 11.4:46.5 M IAA/kinetin, yielding 4.8 and 4.7 shoots per explant, respectively, in 60 d. Rooting of regenerated shoots was achieved by leaving the explants in their shoot-induction medium or transferring them to half-strength MS medium. Hardening of regenerated plants was successfully achieved by planting them in peat moss substrate after a desiccation treatment at room temperature for 3 d.
29736172|Rooting in vitro was examined for lentil nodal segments to test a recently published conclusion that shoot orientation has an effect on rooting. As is the case for many species, roots initiated and grew only at the proximal end of the microcutting regardless of its orientation. When the proximal end was in agar (a hypoxic environment) the rooting percentage was low (9-25%) even when the orientation of the microcutting was altered by inverting the culture tube. In contrast, when the proximal end of the microcutting was in an aerobic environment (from the shoot being placed upside down in agar medium or placed normally or upside down in an aerated medium), rooting percentages were higher (62-100%). Medium aeration at the proximal end of the microcutting is more important than shoot orientation for in vitro rooting of lentil microcuttings.
4293138|Development of asparagus microspores in cold-treated buds of varying sizes and shed microspores from these buds in in vitro culture were observed cytologically for the G459 genotype. Before cold pretreatment, more than 75% of the microspores in flower buds of the 1.4-1.6, 1.7-1.9, 2.0-2.2, 2.3-2.5, and 2.6-2.8 mm size classes were at the early-, mid-, late-uninucleate, early-, and late-binucleate stages, respectively. After 7 d in cold treatment, percentages of microspores at different stages changed in all flower buds. Most notable was the appearance of binucleate microspores resulting from symmetric rather than asymmetric division. For flower buds of 1.7-1.9, 2.0-2.2, and 2.3-2.5 mm size classes, 4.9%, 27.2%, and 11.4% of the microspores had divided symmetrically, respectively. When microspores from buds of each size category were cultured in androgenesis induction medium, only microspores completing symmetric pollen mitosis I during cold treatment were observed to divide further, and calluses were only obtained from microspores of flower bud size classes where symmetric divisions were observed after several days of cold treatment. Significant correlations existed among microspore callus yield, the percentage of late-uninucleate microspores in vivo before cold treatment, and the frequency of symmetric pollen mitosis I after 7 d of cold treatment. Consequently, asparagus microspore androgenesis may occur through one developmental pathway, where a symmetric first mitotic division is a prerequisite for continued development.
4293912|An efficient and reproducible protocol for mass propagation of Eclipta alba (L.) Hassk, an important medicinal plant, was standardized by culturing shoot tips and nodal segments taken from in vitro raised plants. Maximum shoot proliferation occurred when the explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
41432438|A variety of selection systems have been developed for transformation of forage crops. To compare the most frequently used systems, we tested three selectable marker genes for their selection efficiency under four selection procedures for the production of transgenic tall fescue. Embryognie calluses initiated from mature embryos were bombarded with three constructs containing either the phosphinothricin acety  transfrase (bar) gene, the hygromycin phosphotransferase (hpt) gene or the neomycin phosphotransferase II (nptll) gene. Transformation efficiency was strongly influenced by the selectable marker gene, selection procedure and genotype. The highest transformation efficiency was observed using the bar gene in combination with bialaphos. Average transformation efficiencies with bialaphos, phosphinothricin (glufosinate), hygromycin and paromomycin selection across the two callus lines used in the experiments were 9.4%, 4.4%, 5.2% and 1.6%, respectively. Southern blot analysis revealed the independent nature of the tested transgenic plants and a complex transgene integration pattern with multiple insertions.
4293603| The effect of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) on lateral root formation was investigated in adventitious root culture of Panax ginseng. Lateral root formation was affected by IBA (24.6 M) or NAA (9.8M). Lateral root primordia emerged from the explant root pericycle after about 7 d of culture when the roots were cultured on Schenk and Hildebrandt (SH) medium supplemented with 24.6 M IBA or 9.8 M NAA. However, no changes were observed in the explant root pericycle on auxin-free medium. The IBA treatment was more effective for lateral root induction and root growth compared to NAA. In morphological and histological aspects, the lateral roots formed under IBA treatment developed normally, while NAA-treated roots exhibited abnormal growth. The accumulation of total saponin was greater in roots treated with IBA than with NAA. 
41496514|Benzylisoquinoline alkaloids are a large and structurally diverse group of natural plant products that includes many compounds with potent biological activities, including the antimicrobial agent sanguinarine. The putative subcellular localization of the sanguinarine pathway was determined using in-frame N-terminal fusions between cDNAs encoding nine consecutive biosynthetic enzymes and the gene encoding the green fluorescent protein (GFP). Expression constructs were introduced into cultured opium poppy cells by particle bombardment, and the localization of fusion proteins was visualized using epifluorescence microscopy. GFP fusions with two O-methyltransferases and two N-methyltransferases in the sanguinarine pathway all produced non-targeted fluorescence in the cytosol and nucleus. Interspersed between these soluble proteins are five membrane-bound cytochromes P450. Corresponding cDNAs are available for three P450s, all of which produced fluorescence when fused to GFP in association with the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Two enzymes with suggested or known N-terminal signal peptides were initially associated with the ER, but were subsequently transported to the central vacuole suggesting their occurrence in the ER lumen. The alternating localization of these biosynthetic enzymes to three subcellular compartments indicates extensive trafficking of pathway intermediates across the endomembranes and suggests a key role for compartmentalization in the regulation of sanguinarine metabolism.
4293675|Cotyledonary Quercus robur L. somatic embryos from two cell lines were encapsulated in 4% (w/v) sodium alginate. An artificial endosperm was provided by the addition of P
4293488|Two different promoters, a cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter with a 5'- untranslated leader sequence from alfalfa mosaic virus RNA4 (designated as CaMV 35S/AMV) and an E-8 fruit-ripening-specific promoter, were compared to evaluate their effects on expression of the uidA reporter gene in transgenic tomato plants. In order to generate sufficient numbers of transgenic tomato plants, both a reliable regeneration system and an efficient Agrobacterium transformation protocol were developed using 8-d-old cotyledons of tomato (Lycopersicon ecsulentum Mill. cv. Swifty Belle). Two sets of constructs, both derivatives of the binary vector pBI121, were used in transformation of tomato whereby the uidA gene was driven either by the CaMV 35S/AMV or the E-8 fruit-ripening-specific promoter. Southern blot hybridization confirmed the stable integration of the chimeric uidA gene into the tomato genome. Fruit and leaf tissues were collected from T
4292999|Callus cultures were initiated from immature embryos of one Triticum aestivum and three T. durum cultivars. Growing morphogenic calli were exposed to different concentrations of NaCl (0, 0.3, 0.5, and 0.7%) added to the culture medium during two subsequent subcultures (4 wk each). The growth rate of the calli was determined by the relative fresh weight callus growth (RFWCG). The callus growth of all investigated genotypes was slightly changed in the presence of 0.3 and 0.5% NaCl, but strongly inhibited by 0.7% NaCl. Selected NaCl-tolerant clones were isolated and plants were regenerated on MS-based regeneration medium without NaCl. The regeneration capacity of the selected calli was highly reduced compared to the control. The highest number of regenerants was scored for cv. Gladiator (T. aestivum). All regenerated plants were morphologically normal and many developed to maturity and set seeds. Seedlings from the R
4293528|The expression of the green-fluorescent protein (GFP) gene from Aequorea victoria (jellyfish) was analyzed by transient and stable expression in sweet potato Ipomoea batatas L. (Lam.) cv. Beauregard tissues by electroporation and particle bombardment. Leaf and petiole segments from in vitro-mised young plantlets were used for protoplast isolation and electroporation. Embryogenic callus was also produced from leaf segments for particle bombardment experiments. A buffer solution containing
4293566| An in vitro culture procedure was established for somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration from callus cultures of the important palm 'betel nut' (Areca catechu L.). Segments of zygotic embryos of Areca catechu L. were cultured on Murashige and Skoog basal medium supplemented with dicamba (9.05, 18.1, 27.15, and 36.2 M). After 7-8 wk in darkness, wounded regions of explants formed callus with yellow, soft, glutinous structures. Proliferation and maintenance of callus was on the same dicamba-containing medium. With regular subculture every 8 wk, the callus showed pale yellow, compact and nodular structures. During subculture, somatic embryos were formed spontaneously from nodular callus tissues within 2-4 mo. The embryos developed into plantlets after 10 wk of culture on basal medium free of plant growth regulators. After subculturing every month for 3 mo., the plantlets were transferred to containers for acclimatization in the greenhouse. The survival rate was 24%. 
4293320|Drought, extreme temperatures and high salinity are major limiting factors for plant growth and crop productivity. In their quest to feed the ever-increasing world population, agricultural scientists have to contend with these adverse environmental factors. If crops can be redesigned to better cope with abiotic stress, agricultural production can be increased dramatically. Recent advances in understanding crop abiotic stress resistance mechanisms and the advent of molecular genetic technology allow us to address these issues much more efficiently than in the past. This paper reviews the most significant achievements of the genetic engineering approach to improving plant abiotic stress resistance and discusses future prospects in transgenic research. Improved resistance to drought, salinity and extreme temperatures has been observed in transgenic plants that express/overexpress genes regulating osmolytes, specific proteins, antioxidants, ion homeostasis, transcription factors and membrane composition. Although the results are not always consistent, these studies collectively foretell a scenario where biotechnology will arm our future crops with new tactics to survive in hostile environments. Further experiments are needed to determine if the achieved increases in stress tolerance are applicable to agriculture.
4293061|Adventitious shoots of sweetpotato (Ipomoea batatas L. Lam.) were produced in vitro using a two-stage culture method. Petiole explants were incubated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (
20461679|The effect of gibberellic acid (GA) was tested on germination of coconut zygotic embryos, their conversion into plantlets and ex vitro survival. There were four treatments consisting of 5 wk of culture in semi-solid medium or liquid medium, with or without GA. Embryos were then transferred to GA free-liquid medium for the rest of a 32-wk culture. Germination and conversion percentages were higher in semi-solid medium than in liquid medium, and with both media percentages increased with GA treatment (with the exception of the highest GA concentration). Embryos of two varieties (MGD and MYD) were used. The following are the results with MGD embryos. Optimum GA concentration in liquid medium was 0.46 M, with 80% germination (62% in the control without GA) and 4.6 M in semi-solid medium with 98% germination (71% in the control). With GA treatment, germination was also faster. Conversion in semi-solid medium with GA was 87% (60% in the control), and 45% in liquid medium with GA (25% in the control). Once the plantlets had at least three bifid leaves and three primary roots at the time of transfer to ex vitro, they survived independently of the treatment. When MYD embryos were used, germination and conversion percentages were higher in semi-solid medium than in liquid medium, and they increased when GA was used, although percentages were lower than those obtained with MGD embryos. The results showed that the use of GA benefited coconut embryos in culture because it favored germination and conversion to plants on semi-solid medium, and hence improved previous protocols.
4293931|The effects of 0, 5 and 10 Gy doses of gamma irradiation on the enhancement of embryogenesis and plant regeneration efficiency of three barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) genotypes, Igri, Arabi Abiad and AECS 76, were evaluated. Embryo yields at 5 and 10 Gy doses were significantly higher than those of the control (0Gy). This effect was genotype-dependent. The most responsive genotype was Igri, with 592.8 embryos 32 anthers exposed to 10 Gy. However, despite a high embryo induction rate, the green plant regeneration rate was low. Arabi Abiad had a higher ability to generate green plants produced from, with 28.13 plantlets obtained from 32 anthers at 10 Gy; irradiation had no significant effect on regeneration of Igri and AECS 76 genotypes. In general, the 10 Gy dose produced a much higher embryo yield than the 5 Gy dose. The root-tip chromosome mimber and the fertility of 298 regenerating green plants of cv. Igri revealed that 64% of the tested plants were spontaneously doubled haploids (DHs) and fertile.
4293311|Virus-infected plants are often symptomless and may be inadvertently used as explant sources in tissue culture research. Our objective was to determine the effect of virus infection on micropropagation. We studied the effects of single and multiple infections of three common raspberry viruses on the in vitro culture of 'Mailing Landmark' red raspberry (Rubus idaeus L.). Virus-infected raspberry plants were produced by leaf-graft inoculation from known-infected plants onto virus-free 'Mailing Landmark'. Single-virus source plants were infected with either tobacco streak ilarvirus (TSV), tomato ringspot nepovirus (TomRSV), or raspberry bushy dwarf idaeovirus (RBDV) and were free of other viruses as determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and bioassay. Virus-free, single, and multiple virus-infected 'Mailing Landmark' explants were initiated into culture and multiplied on Anderson's medium with
40981346|The production of phenolic metabolites has been optimized in parallel to sugarcane micropropagation in temporary immersion bioreactors (TIBs). Culturing micropropagated plants in 0.4% CO-rich air induced their photosynthetic activity by enhancing the change from a heterotrophic to a photomixotrophic metabolic stage. Under 0.4% CO enrichment, the transcript levels of both phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL EF189195) and ribulose-l, 5-biphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco CF576750) increased and were correlated to a 4.6-and 6.3-fold increase in the phenolic levels when plants were multiplied in 20 or 30 g/1 sucrose, respectively. A novel application of plant phenolic metabolites as elicitors of resistance to tomato bacterial wilt in the Solarium lycopersicum-Ralstonia solanacearum pathosystem has been identified. The culture media was collected, and the phenolics were sprayed onto tomato plants infected with R. solanacearum, eliciting and/or maintaining an early defense signaling mechanism that resulted in the protection of the plant against the tomato bacterial wilt disease. RT-PCR analyses confirmed that selected genes from defense-related pathways were differentially expressed between plants treated with sugarcane metabolites, non-treated pathogenfree plants, and non-treated plants inoculated with R. solanacearum.
4293594|The qualitative and quantitative composition of secondary metabolites was studied in the shoots and roots of Centaurium pulchellum cultured in vitro. Secoiridoids (gentiopicrin, swertiamarin, and sweroside) and xanthones (methylbellidifolin, demethyleustomin, and deccussatin) were isolated. Sweroside was found to be the major secoiridoid compound in the aerial parts of plants growing in nature, while swertiamarin dominated in plants cultured in vitro. In roots of all plants, genciopicrin was the major compound. Xanthone demethyleustomin was the major compound both in the shoots and roots of plants growing in nature and cultured in vitro. Different sugars (glucose, fructose, and sucrose) added in different concentrations in the medium affected the production of secondary compounds.
4293811|Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) haploids and doubled haploids have been used in breeding programs and genetic studies. Wheat haploids and doubled haploids via anther culture are usually produced by a multiple step culture procedure. We improved a wheat haploid and doubled haploid production system via anther culture in which plants are produced from microspore-derived embryos using one medium and one culture environment. In the improved protocol, tillers of donor plants were pretreated at 4 C for 1-2 wk before anthers were plated on a modified 85D12 basal medium with phenylacetic acid (PAA) and zeatin and cultured at 30 C with a 12-h daylength (
4293113|Brugmansia candida, an indigenous South American plant, produces the tropane alkaloids scopolamine and hyoscya-mine, which are widely employed in medicine as anticholinergic agents. In this research, hairy roots of Brugmansia candida, obtained through infection with Agrobacterium rhizogenes LBA 9402, were employed to produce these tropane alkaloids in vitro. The effects of different concentrations of
4293263| A 630-bp DNA fragment encoding a bovine milk protein, -casein, was cloned into a seed-specific lectin promoter expression cassette and introduced into soybean somatic embryos via particle bombardment. Four hygromycin-resistant embryogenic cell lines were selected. All four lines were positive for the -casein gene via Southern blot analysis; however, only one line did not show significant rearrangement of the -casein gene and/or lectin promoter. The presence of the -casein gene in the genome of the four plants regenerated from this culture was confirmed via Southern blot hybridization analysis. DNA blot experiments and progeny inheritance analysis indicated that the plants contain four to eight copies of the -casein gene and that the insertion occurred at a single genetic locus. Bovine -casein mRNA was highly expressed in developing cotyledons. A very low level of -casein mRNA was found in leaf tissues although endogenous lectin transcripts were not found in the same samples. Bovine -casein protein was expressed in cotyledons of transformed plants but was not detectable in leaf tissues of transformed plants by immunoblotting. Bovine -casein produced in the individual developing seed of the first generation of transgenic plants migrated as two closely spaced bands very similar to those of pure bovine -casein. This experiment represents the first report of the expression of a milk protein in soybean and opens the way for the general improvement of protein quality in soybean directed by seed-specific promoters. 
20064971|A micropropagation protocol was developed for Cinnamomum camphora (L.) Sieb., using as initial explants 3-5-mm shoot tips from newly emerged laterals of 2-yr-old trees. Performance of small shoot tips was compared with that of 2.0-cm nodal segments during subculture. Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) supplemented with different concentrations of N-benzyladenine (BA) or thidiazuron (TDZ) was used to examine shoot proliferation. In separate experiments, MS was supplemented with 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) for rooting of shoots, and the commercial preparation EM for prevention of hyperhydricity. BA stimulated shoot formation and callus development, whereas TDZ promoted only callus development. Both cytokinins induced hyperhydricity when small shoot tips were used, with severity being directly related to concentrations. Hyperhydricity was avoided in subcultures by using larger nodal segments. EM did not alter degree of hyperhydricity but suppressed callus development and strongly promoted shoot multiplication. The number of new shoots after a 6-wk subculture was 9 per nodal segment when supplemented solely with 4.4 M BA and 18 per segment when further supplemented with 1000 mg EM per l. Rooting of shoots occurred best when supplemented solely with 0.54 M NAA, averaging 7 roots per shoot in 4 wk. Ninety percent of rooted shoots survived transfer to the greenhouse.
4293451|Daylight instead of artificial light was exploited for the in vitro culture of banana. Tubular skylights rediverted natural light into an interior enclosed room whereby each skylight, available for ca. US$600, could sufficiently illuminate an area of 3-5 m2. The maintenance-free system allowed only a minimum of heat transfer and no cooling was necessary. The culture room required no electricity supply and under our conditions savings on costs for electricity of US$6 m wk were achieved, as compared to a standard growth room equipped with artificial lighting and controlled photoperiod and temperature regimes. Under natural light conditions, micropropagated plantlets were well developed at mean photosynthetic photon flux densities (PPFD) of
20461722|The capacity for indirect shoot organogenesis of leaf and root explants of four Dieffenbachia cultivars were examined on a modified Murashige and Skoog (MS; Physiol Plant 15:473-495, 1962) medium supplemented with different plant growth regulators in 112 combinations. Callus formation was only observed from leaf explants on MS supplemented with 1-10 M thidiazuron (TDZ) and 0.5-1.0 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) regardless of cultivars. The combination of 5 M TDZ and 1 M 2,4-D resulted in the greatest callus formation frequency among the four cultivars tested. Significant differences in callus and shoot formation from leaf explants were also observed among cultivars. Cultivars Camouflage, Camille, Octopus, and Star Bright produced green nodular, brown nodular, yellow friable, and green compact calli with corresponding maximum callus formation frequencies of 96%, 62%, 54%, and 52%, respectively. A maximum of 6.7 shoots/callus was observed in cv. Camouflage, followed by cvs. Camille and Star Bright at 3.7 and 3.5, respectively. Calli of cv. Octopus displayed no capacity for shoot organogenesis. Regardless of cultivar, callus formation was not observed on root explants. Regenerated shoots were successfully acclimatized in a shaded greenhouse condition with 100% survival.
4293793|A characteristic phenotype of highly embryogenic explants along with the location of embryogenesis- and transformation-competent cells/tissues on immature cotyledons of soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill.] under hygromycin selection was identified. This highly embryogenic immature cotyledon was characterized with emergence of somatic embryos and incidence of browning/necrotic tissues along the margins and collapsed tissues in the mid-region of an explant incubated upwards on the selection medium. The influences of various parameters on induction of somatic embryogenesis on immature cotyledons following Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation and selection were investigated. Using cotyledon explants derived from immature embryos of 5-8 mm in length, a 1:1 (v/v; bacterial cells to liquid D40 medium) concentration of bacterial suspension and 4-wk cocultivation period significantly increased the frequency of transgenic somatic embryos. Whereas, increasing the infection period of explants or subjecting explants to either wounding or acetosyringone treatments did not increase the frequency of transformation. An optimal selection regime was identified when inoculated immature cotyledons were incubated on either 10 or
41318707|Development of citrus somatic embryos initiated from embryognie callus generally results in abnormal morphogenesis of somatic embryos. To normalize development, glycerol-induced globular-stage somatic embryos of sweet orange [C.sinensis (L.) Osbeck cv. ' Hamlin'] were cultured on 6000-8000 MW cutoff cellulose acetate, > 400000MW cutoff cellulose acetate, nitrocellulose, polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF), cellulose filter paper, or positive or neutral charged nylon membranes. Only the two cellulose acetate membranes resulted in the development of normal, two-cotyledon, bipolar, heart-shaped embryos, and no aberrant teratoma-like structures. Heart-shaped embryos developed and germinated normally on Murashige and Tucker basal medium with 0.5% sucrose and 1 M gibberellic acid. Culture of embryognie callus directly onto cellulose membranes also resulted in the development of normal heart-shaped embryos, indicating that glycerol induction of globular-stage embryos is not necessary. Heart-shaped embryos were not observed when the osmotic potential of the medium was increased by the addition of 2.5-15% polyethylene glycol; neither were they observed when the matric potential of the medium was increased by increasing the gelling agent concentrations of agar and Gelrite from 0.8% to 3% and 0.15% to 0.9%, respectively.
41318711|A transformed root culture of Cichorium intybus L. cv. Lucknow Local grown in different configurations of bioreactors was examined. The roots grown in an acoustic mist bioreactor showed the best performance in terms of increased specific growth rate (0.072 d) and esculin content (18.5 g1 ), the latter of which was comparable to that of shake flask data. C. intybus hairy root cultures grown in an acoustic mist bioreactor produced nearly twice as much esculin as compared to roots grown in bubble column and nutrient sprinkle bioreactors. Studies relating to on-line estimation of conductivity and osmolarity to predict the growth of hairy root cultures are also discussed. The results demonstrate the efficacy and the advantages of an acoustic mist bioreactor for the cultivation of hairy root cultures, especially with reference to C. intybus hairy roots.
4293649|Totipotent callus of Cypripedium formosanum, an endangered slipper orchid species, was induced from seed-derived protocorm segments on a quarter-strength Murashige and Skoog medium containing
4293237|The proliferation and survival of avocado nodal cultures of juvenile origin were affected by the form and concentration of nitrogen. Optimum growth was achieved on modified Murashige and Skoog medium containing
20461615|Somatic embryos of carob (Ceratonia siliqua L.) were induced from cotyledonary segments excised from immature seeds when cultured on Murashige and Skoog media supplemented with several combinations of 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). The best frequencies of induction (33.8%) were obtained when 4.4 M BA and 0.5 M IBA were used. Shoots were also sporadically formed in the same media. When IBA was replaced by other auxins in the induction media, only -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) could induce somatic embryogenesis, although at lower rates than IBA. 2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid were completely ineffective. Besides culture media composition, the developmental stage of the explants at the time of culture showed a strong influence on somatic embryogenesis induction, with cotyledons from stage II pods providing the highest levels of induction. By contrast, the genotype of the explant did not determine a significant role in the induction process. Attempts to achieve somatic embryo germination were mostly unsuccessful, since only shoot development was observed; the highest frequencies of development occurred on media containing only gibberellic acid (3.0 M). For plant regeneration, the developed shoots were further rooted on IBA-supplemented media, and the plantlets obtained were transferred to soil, where c. 88% of them survived. Histological observations showed the presence of morphologically normal and abnormal somatic embryos, the latter displaying an abnormal pattern of vascular bundles. Ultrastructural analysis showed that the cells of the globular embryos had a dense cytoplasm, whereas those not involved in somatic embryo formation showed signs of senescence. Histological studies were also used to distinguish between somatic embryos and shoots originated in the same media.
4293637| Exposure of mature cotyledonary somatic embryos of Picea abies to low temperature (4C) resulted in the accumulation of raffinose family oligosaccharides (RFOs) - raffinose and stachyose. The RFO content represented approximately 20% of the total soluble saccharides with the RFO:sucrose ratio being almost 1:3 (molar basis) after 3 wk of cold exposure. This treatment, like desiccation, brings the endogenous saccharide spectrum nearer to that of mature zygotic embryos of the same species (zygotic embryos, RFO:sucrose ratio 1:1.5 on a molar basis). Based on indications that RFOs are at least partly responsible for the positive effects of desiccation, we propose cold treatment as an alternative to slow desiccation for conifer somatic embryogenesis protocols. 
40981347|The role of K in potato (Solarium tuberosum L.) tuberization, based on the effects of fertilizer and soil exchangeable K, appears to be mostly contradictory. Here, we provide evidence that K at high concentrations is detrimental to tuber development in vitro once induction has taken place. An experimental system using in vitro cultured single-node cuttings showed that K at > 30.0 mM significantly reduced tuber fresh mass concomitant with a corresponding decline in starch content. However, high K did not affect tuber induction in terms of number of tubers developed per cutting. High K -induced inhibitory effect on tuber development was attributed to a reduced rate of assimilate partitioning. 86 Rb(K) transport to stolons, and tubers that acted as strong sinks in vitro were proportional to exogenous K levels; however, 86 Rb accumulation and K deposition were markedly reduced in tubers as compared with that in stolons, especially at higher K levels. The results indicated a diminishing sink strength developed by tubers with increasing nutrition. Highly significant negative correlations between Rb accumulation/K deposition in both the sink organs and tuber fresh mass reinforced the inhibitory effect of high K on tuber development. The rate of tuber removal in vitro was similar to that of crop removal reported in vivo, suggesting highly conserved uptake and transport mechanisms during tuberization process. The results have been discussed in the context of possible effects of high. K on impairing sucrose uptake and metabolism.
4293002|Barley leaf blade protoplasts accumulate malonaldehyde, a product of lipid peroxidation, during culture. In addition, glutathione levels fall after protoplast isolation and the proportion of glutathione in the oxidized state rises. These data indicate oxidative stress after protoplast isolation and during culture. The cause of this phenomenon is revealed by data showing that the activities of enzymes associated with antioxidative processes including glutathione reductase and ascorbate peroxidase decrease after barley protoplast isolation. In contrast, protoplasts isolated from suspension cultured cells of bromegrass and soybean exhibit little evidence for oxidative stress and increased activities of glutathione reductase and ascorbate peroxidase. We suggest that an antioxidative response is associated with mitosis and colony formation from protoplasts, as exhibited by bromegrass and soybean. Conversely, failure of an antioxidative response is associated with low viability and absence of mitosis, as in barley. Increased viability of barley leaf protoplasts cultured on feeder layer cells is correlated with increased glutathione content and higher glutathione reductase activity.
20064967|Selectable marker genes play an important role in plant transformation. The level of selection pressure is generally established by generating a kill curve for the selectable marker. In most cases, the lowest concentration which kills all explants is used. This study examined two selectable marker genes, phosphinothricin acetyl transferase (PAT) and hygro-mycin phosphotransferase (HPT), in transformation of tobacco leaf disks. Experiments to determine the lethal level of the herbicide, glufosinate-ammonium (phosphinothricin) (PPT) using a leaf-disk regeneration assay established that no shoots regenerated at 2 to 4 mg PPT per l. Likewise with the antibiotic, hygromycin (HYG), no plants regenerated at 50 mg hygromycin per l. In contrast, after cocultivation of the leaf disks with Agrobacterium tumefaciens containing either the PAT or HPT gene in combination with a Bt gene for insect resistance, plants were successfully regenerated from leaf disks at 2 to 4 mg PPT per l and 50 mg hygromycin per l. However, most plants regenerated at 2 and 3 mg PPT per l were found to be nontransformed (95-100% escapes) by i) Southern-blot analysis, ii) herbicide application test, and iii) insect feeding bioassay. On the other hand, plants that regenerated on 50 mg hygromycin per l and 4 mg PPT per l were transgenic as determined by Southern analysis, leaf assay for PPT or HYG resistance, and death of tobacco budworms feeding on these leaves. This study showed a significant level of cross-protection and/or transient expression of the PAT selectable marker gene allowing escapes (95-100%) at selection levels of 2 and 3 mg PPT per l which completely kill controls. On the other hand, the HPT gene at 50 mg is efficient in selecting for T-DNA integration.
4293023|Tryptophan decarboxylase (TDC), the enzyme that catalyzes the decarboxylation of tryptophan to tryptamine, was studied in a Catharanthus roseus transformed root culture. Its activity was evaluated through the culture cycle (36 days), along with the variations in the tryptamine pool as well as the accumulation of alkaloids. Ajmalicine and catharanthine contents in the tissues increased coordinately with an increase in TDC-specific activity after 18 days of growth. No dramatic shifts were observed for the total alkaloid and tryptamine profiles.
4293847| Anthers and ovaries of six grapevine cultivars (three Vitis vinifera L., two V. x Labruscana L.H. Bailey, and one complex hybrid) were extracted from flower buds over 2 yr and cultured on three media reported to promote somatic embryogenesis in Vitis tissues. The highest percent embryogenesis from the hybrid 'Chancellor' and V. vinifera 'Chardonnay,' 'Merlot,' and 'Pinot Noir' occurred on medium C [Nitsch and Nitsch, 1969, basal medium with 3.0% (w/v) sucrose, 0.01% (w/v) inositol, 0.3% (w/v) Phytagel, 2.5 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 2.5 M -naphthoxyacetic acid, 5.0 |M N-(2-chloro-4-pyridyl)-N' -phenylurea, and 0.05% (w/v) glutamine]. Regardless of the media, the labrusca cultivars 'Concord' and 'Niagara' produced soft non-embryogenic callus that was sometimes mixed with well-developed somatic embryos. Nine vinifera genotypes were further tested for several different years on medium C. Embryogenic cultures suitable for transformation were obtained from all genotypes in more than 1 yr. The average percent embryogenesis from ovaries was 7-fold higher than from anthers. There was significant annual variation in percent embryogenesis, demonstrating the need for media comparisons to be replicated for more than one season. Suspension cultures suitable for use in genetic transformation were initiated from 'Chardonnay,' 'Merlot,' and 'Pinot Noir' pro-embryogenic masses. 'Chardonnay' suspension cultures plated and grown under conditions developed for recovery of plants after biolistic transformation yielded approximately 500 non-transformed embryos per plate after 4 mo. of culture, with 68.6% of the embryos converting to plants. This is the first reported protocol for embryogenesis from 'Concord,' 'Cabernet Franc,' and 'Pinot Noir' grapevines. 
4293710|Medicinal plants are valuable sources of medicinal and many other pharmaceutical products. The conventional propagation method is the principal means of propagation and takes a long time for multiplication because of a low rate of fruit set, and/or poor germination and also sometimes clonal uniformity is not maintained through seeds. The plants used in the phyto-pharmaceutical preparations are obtained mainly from the natural growing areas. With the increase in the demand for the crude drugs, the plants are being overexploited, threatening the survival of many rare species. Also, many medicinal plant species are disappearing at an alarming rate due to rapid agricultural and urban development, uncontrolled deforestation, and indiscriminate collection. Advanced biotechnological methods of culturing plant cells and tissues should provide new means for conserving and rapidly propagating valuable, rare, and endangered medicinal plants. The purpose of the present review is to focus the application of tissue culture technology for in vitro propagation via somatic embryogenesis and organogenesis and the cell suspension culture with suitable examples reported earlier. An overview of tissue culture studies on important Chinese medicinal plants and related species is presented.
20461571|Artemisinin is a sesquiterpene lactone isolated from the aerial parts of Artemisia annua L. plants. Besides being currently the best therapeutic against both drug-resistant and cerebral malaria-causing strains of Plasmodium falciparum, the drug has also been shown to be effective against other infectious diseases including schistosomiasis and hepatitis. More recently, it has also been shown to be effective against numerous types of tumors. Although chemical synthesis of artemisinin is possible, it is not economically feasible. The relatively low yield (0.01-0.8%) of artemisinin in A. annua is a further serious limitation to the commercialization of the drug. Therefore, the enhanced production of artemisinin either in cell/tissue culture or in the whole plant of A. annua is highly desirable. A better understanding of the biochemical pathway leading to the synthesis of artemisinin and its regulation by both exogenous and endogenous factors is essential for facilitating increased yield. Two genes of the artemisinin biosynthetic pathway have now been identified. This critical review covers recent developments related to the biosynthesis of this important compound and related terpenoids, their regulation, and the production of these compounds both in vitro and in whole plants.
4293541| Four transgenic soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill] lines were generated containing the maize 15 kDa zein protein gene using somatic embryogenic protocols. The zein gene was inserted behind the -phaseolin promoter for seed-specific expression. All four lines represent separate transformation events as they were generated in different experiments at different locations. Two of the transformation events produced multiple plants, and these produced identical Southern hybridization patterns (UKY/Z1, UKY/Z2 and UKY/Z3 from the first; and OSU/Z4, OSU/Z8 and OSU/Z10 from the second). Molecular characterization revealed that multiple copies of the zein gene were present in all of the transgenic lines. Immunoblot analysis confirmed the accumulation of the zein protein product in the seeds of the UKY/Z1, UKY/Z2, UKY/Z3, OSU/Z4, OSU/Z8 and OSU/Z10 transgenic lines. However, there was no accumulation of zein protein in the UGA/Z1 line and Northern analysis confirmed that the zein transgene was silenced in this line. It was not possible to analyze the zein expression in the seeds of the UKY/Z4 line, as it was sterile. Amino acid analysis of the UKY and OSU lines confirmed that there was a 12-20% increase in methionine, and 15-35% increase in cysteine content in these lines compared to the control. There were no consistent changes in the content of the other amino acids in the transgenic lines. These results suggest that while the increase in methionine content in these lines is modest, it is possible to increase the methionine content without adversely affecting the protein composition of soybean. 
4293865|An efficient and reproducible procedure for the large-scale propagation of Pseudoxytenanthera stocksii is described. High-frequency multiple shoot induction was achieved from nodal shoot segments collected from superior/elite genotypes on Murashige and Skoog (MS) liquid medium supplemented with 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA;
4293167|The type of gelling agent can influence to a large extent clonal propagation of Ranunculus asiaticus L. through axillary bud stimulation. In preliminary experiments we identified three agar brands (Oxoid = OX, Merck = MK, and Roth = RT) which affect the availability of water and minerals to tissues in different ways. In the present study we investigate the influence of these agars on the in vitro performance of Ranunculus. On OX and MK gels, growth was satisfactory, although the former had a more promotive effect on fresh and dry weight production and on multiplication rate. Growth and development of shoots were poor on RT; shoot clumps showed symptoms of hyperhydricity, with shoots having large dark-green malformed leaves and very elongated petioles. Epidermal strips of leaves from shoots grown on the different gels and collected at the end of the culture period revealed differences according to the agar brand on which the plantlets were cultured. Severe structural deformations of stomata could be detected on RT-grown shoots. The analyses of the sugar content of the gel at the end of the culture period demonstrated that the explants grown on RT gels are strictly dependent on the carbohydrates in the medium. On OX and MK gels the heterotrophic metabolism was lowered compared to RT-grown explants. The agar brand on which plantlets were grown also influenced water retention capacity and water content of the shoots. Experiments with tritiated water were undertaken to better understand the water fluxes inside the vessel and to investigate the difference in "pump function" exerted by shoots cultured on the three gels. Shoots grown on OX media showed the best "pump function," which would account for the better results obtained on this gel. On the basis of the relationship between gel properties and the growth of Ranunculus shoots, we conclude that the different physiological responses on the three gels are a reflection of different water and nutrient availability in the different media.
20461738|Endogenous levels of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), indole-3-acetylaspartic acid (IAAsp) and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) were measured during the first 8 d of in vitro rooting of rootstock from the chestnut 'M3' hybrid by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Rooting was induced either by dipping the basal ends of the shoots into a 4.92-mM IBA solution for 1 min or by sub-culturing the shoots on solid rooting medium supplemented with 14.8-M IBA for 5 d. For root development, the induced shoots were transferred to auxin-free solid medium. Auxins were measured in the apical and basal parts of the shoots by means of HPLC. Endogenous levels of IAA and IAAsp were found to be greater in IBA-treated shoots than in control shoots. In extracts of the basal parts of the shoots, the concentration of free IAA showed a significant peak 2 d after either root inductive method and a subsequent gradual decrease for the remainder of the time course. The concentration of IAAsp peaked at day 6 in extracts of the basal parts of shoots induced with 14.8-M IBA for 5 d, whereas shoots induced by dipping showed an initial increase until day 2 and then remained stable. In extracts from basal shoot portions induced by dipping, IBA concentration showed a transient peak at day 1 and a plateau between day 2 and 4, in contrast to the profile of shoots induced on auxin-containing medium, which showed a significant reduction between 4 and 6 d after transferred to auxin-free medium. All quantified auxins remained at a relatively low level, virtually constant, in extracts from apical shoot portions, as well as in extracts from control non-rooting shoots. In conclusion, the natural auxin IAA is the signal responsible for root induction, although it is driven by exogenous IBA independently of the adding conditions.
4292940|An experimental rooting system was developed to study in vitro adventitious root formation in hazelnut cotyledons. Experiments involved a) assay of several culture media, b) use of different developmental status of the seeds (germinated and ungerminated), c) cotyledons subjected to various light regimes, and d) different size of cotyledons slices. It was observed that higher rooting was induced in cotyledonary portions of 5- or 7-mm thickness (
4293579|Production of high-quality, vigorous tissue-culture-derived propagules requires efficient ways for the enhancement of their post-transplanting ability for water management, photosynthesis, and resistance to diseases. Certain molecules, environmental factors, microorganisms, or their parts, can pre-sensitize cellular metabolism of plants, so upon exposure to stress these pre-sensitized, or 'primed', plants are able to respond quicker, and to a higher degree than nonprimed, and thus cope better with the challenge. In this review we propose the adoption of the term 'priming' for tissue culture propagation and outline the approaches to in vitro propagule priming, based on the changes to the growth environment (chemical, physical, and biological) prior to and/or upon transplanting. Major emphasis has been placed on in vitro and ex vitro biopriming (priming with beneficial microorganisms).
20461660|This study reports spore germination, early gametophyte development and change in the reproductive phase of Drynaria fortunei, a medicinal fern, in response to changes in pH and light spectra. Germination of D. fortunei spores occurred on a wide range of pH from 3.7 to 9.7. The highest germination (63.3%) occurred on  strength Murashige and Skoog basal medium supplemented with 2% sucrose at pH 7.7 under white light condition. Among the different light spectra tested, red, far-red, blue, and white light resulted in 71.3, 42.3, 52.7, and 71.0% spore germination, respectively. There were no morphological differences among gametophytes grown under white and blue light. Elongated or filamentous but multiseriate gametophytes developed under red light, whereas under far-red light gametophytes grew as uniseriate filaments consisting of mostly elongated cells. Different light spectra influenced development of antheridia and archegonia in the gametophytes. Gametophytes gave rise to new gametophytes and developed antheridia and archegonia after they were transferred to culture flasks. After these gametophytes were transferred to plastic tray cells with potting mix of tree fern trunk fiber mix (TFTF mix) and peatmoss the highest number of sporophytes was found. Sporophytes grown in pots developed rhizomes.
4292919|Using microprojectile bombardment of maize suspension cultures and bialaphos selection, transformed embryogenic calli have been recovered in numerous independent experiments. Fertile transgenic plants have been regenerated from several transformed callus lines. Stable inheritance and expression of bar and functional activity of the enzyme phosphinothricin acetyl transferase were observed in three subsequent generations of transformed plants. Evidence to date indicates that the transformation process and the presence of the foreign gene per se do not detrimentally influence either plant vigor or fertility. This represents a practical method for introducing foreign genes into maize, which may be applicable to other monocot species.
4293564| Explants derived from adventitious buds, rhizomes, stems, and leaves of a medicinal plant, Polygonatum cyrtonema, were studied for plantlet regeneration, and only adventitious bud explants were able to be regenerated into plantlets. Regeneration was also accompanied by the formation of rhizome-like tissue, the medicinal portion of the plant. The optimum hormone combination for plantlet regeneration was 4.44 M benzyladenine plus 2.26 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, at which new adventitious buds were obtained from 96.6% of the adventitious bud explants, with an average of 5.2 buds per explant. The best medium for root induction was half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium with 4.57 M -naphthaleneacetic acid, as 92% of regenerated buds rooted. Regenerated plantlets were successfully transferred to a greenhouse with 86% survival. Histological observation indicated that new adventitious buds originated from the superficial meristematic cell cluster of the granular callus induced from adventitious bud explants via organogenesis. 
4293838|This study investigated the role of antioxidants and amino acids on somatic embryogenesis using the vegetative shoot apices of three genotypes of mature Pinus patula trees. Apart from dithiothreitol at 0.1%, pretreatment of explants or incorporation of antioxidants in the basal nutrient medium had a negative effect on the initiation of embryogenic cultures, somatic embryo production, and plantlet recovery. Inclusion of an amino acid solution mixture, at a concentration of 10.0 mM, in the maturation medium tended to increase somatic embryo production.
4293366|The present review summarizes the factors involved in controlling the process of oak somatic embryogenesis as a method for vegetative plant propagation and includes also data on artificial seed production, cryopreservation and transformation. One major limitation, the inability to initiate embryogenic cultures from mature trees, has been recently overcome. Leaves from selected cork oak trees with an age of 50 yr and more have been used to initiate somatic embryogenesis (SE) with a frequency of up to 20%. These findings offer encouraging prospects for cloning proven superior plant material and to integrate this propagation system into tree improvement programs. Once the process of SE has been initiated, the multiplication cycle proceeds via secondary embryogenesis, which can be maintained indefinitely. Problems are reported by the formation of anomalous embryos. The mutability of somatic embryogenic cell lines of various oak species has been monitored by flow cytometry and molecular markers. No somaclonal variation was detected applying random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) or amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) markers, whereas DNA-content measurements via flow cytometry revealed tetraploidy in some cell lines after several years of continuous subculture. Maturation and low germination frequencies are the main bottlenecks for a broader use of this technique. Recently attention has been on embryo quality and parameters for conversion capacity such as high endogenous cytokinin level and low abscisic acid (ABA) level. Although oak is probably the species that is the most well-developed system for a broadleaved forest tree, data on growth performances of somatic embryo-derived plants are rare.
20541038|Energy plays a vital role in the economic growth of any country. Current energy supplies in the world are unsustainable from environmental, economic, and societal standpoints. All over the world, governments have initiated the use of alternative sources of energy for ensuring energy security, generating employment, and mitigating CO emissions. Biofuels have emerged as an ideal choice to meet these requirements. Huge investments in research and subsidies for production are the rule in most of the developed countries. India started its biofuel initiative in 2003. This initiative differs from other nations' in its choice of raw material for biofuel production--molasses for bioethanol and nonedible oil for biodiesel. Cyclicality of sugar, molasses, and ethanol production resulted in a fuel ethanol program which suffered from inconsistent production and supply. The restrictive policies, availability of molasses, and cost hampered the fuel ethanol program. Inconsistent policies, availability of land, choice of nonnative crops, yield, and market price have been major impediments for biodiesel implementation. However, a coherent, consistent, and committed policy with long-term vision can sustain India's biofuel effort. This will provide energy security, economic growth, and prosperity and ensure a higher quality of life for India.
20171597|In vitro cultures are being considered as an alternative to agricultural processes for producing valuable secondary metabolites. Most efforts that use differentiated cultures instead of cell suspension cultures have focused on transformed (hairy) roots. Bioreactors used to culture hairy roots can be roughly divided into three types: liquid-phase, gas-phase, or hybrid reactors that are a combination of both. The growth and productivity of hairy root cultures are reviewed with an emphasis on successful bioreactors and important culture considerations. The latter include strain selection, production of product in relation to growth phase, media composition, the gas regime, use of elicitors, the role of light, and apparent product loss. Together with genetic engineering and process optimization, proper reactor design plays a key role in the development of successful large-scale production of secondary metabolites from plant cultures.
4293053|Efficient methods of Agrobacterium-mediated transformation are described for two Pacific Northwest cultivars of strawberry (Fragaria x ananassa), Tristar and Totem. We report stable incorporation of a gene for control of ethylene biosynthesis, into strawberry (cultivar Totem) for the first time. Cultivar Tristar was transformed with disarmed strains of Agrobacterium tumefaciens (A. tumefaciens), LBA4404 or EHA101, containing a binary vector with marker genes uidA and nptII. Cultivar Totem was transformed with A. tumefaciens strains EHA101 or EHA105 harboring binary vectors with selectable marker genes nptII or hpt and with a gene for S-adenosylmethionine hydrolase (SAMase) for control of ethylene biosynthesis. The frequency of transgenic shoots ranged from 12.5% to 58.8% of the original treated expiants when using plasmids containing the gene encoding SAMase. Primary shoot regenerants obtained on selection medium were subjected to several iterations of tissue isolation and reculture on higher stringency selection medium for recovering uniformly transformed plantlets. Transgenic plants were confirmed by their ability to undergo rooting on medium with selection at 60 mg/liter kanamycin or 10 mg/liter hygromycin. About 95-100% of the transformation events from different experiments were capable of profuse rooting in the presence of selection. Insertion of the SAMase gene and its integration into the strawberry genome were confirmed by Southern hybridization. About 500 plants from 250 independent transgenic events have been successfully transferred to soil for further evaluation.
41496446|To evaluate the role of exogenous application of a phytochelating agent glutathione in increasing resistance against different heavy metals stress, nodal expiants excised from 28-day-old in vitro seedlings of Spilanthes calva L. were cultured on Murashige and Skoog's medium supplemented with 10 M benzyl adenine and five different concentrations (1, 5, 50, 100, or 200 mg/1) of four heavy metals: AsO, CuSO, ZnSO, or Pb(NO). Data were recorded for percent survival, shoot number, and shoot length after 28 d of heavy metal treatment. All four heavy metals severely inhibited growth and morphogenesis. Pb proved most inhibitory whereas Zn was least effective. Pb was further selected to study the reversal effect of glutathione on morphogenesis. The addition of different concentrations (1, 5, 10, or 25 mg/1) of glutathione to media containing the Pb resulted in a significant improvement in almost all growth parameters. Inclusion of glutathione at 10 mg/1 was optimum for maximum reversal of the negative effects of heavy metals on morphogenesis.
20461631|The contamination of soils with excess salts is one of the greatest challenges to plant survival, but some unique species have evolved to thrive in highly saline environments. One such species, Alhagi graecorum Boiss., has been previously shown to accumulate high levels of sodium while growing in salt marshes. The aim of this research was to investigate the effects of saline conditions on the growth and the regeneration capacity of this species. Plantlets and explants of A. graecorum were cultured on a medium supplemented with various concentrations of NaCl, where A. graecorum tissues accumulated up to 8% Na. The capacity for regeneration was enhanced by the excess sodium, indicating a requirement of salt for optimal growth and development in this species. Further study of this species may provide new concepts and understanding of the metabolism of sodium in higher plants.
25623011|Ponkan mandarin (Citrus reticulata Blanco) is one of the most important commercial cultivars of mandarin orange in China. This study reports an improved and efficient protocol for in vitro plant regeneration of Ponkan mandarin. Epicotyl segments, which were cut longitudinally into two halves, were used as explants. The shoot regeneration frequency was significantly increased by longitudinal cutting. A 100% shoot regeneration frequency and 13.2 shoots per explant were obtained when cultures were maintained in darkness for 20 d before being transferred to light conditions, with bud induction by indirect organogenesis. A 72.5% shoot regeneration frequency and 7.8 shoots per explant were obtained when explants were incubated under a 16-h light photoperiod continuously with buds differentiating directly from the cutting wound surface. The optimal medium for shoot formation was Murashige and Tucker basal medium supplemented with 2 mgL BA and 30 gL sucrose both under light conditions. The addition of the auxin NAA reduced the frequency of regeneration. A "filter-paper bridge" technique was used for rooting in this study. The basal portion of regenerated shoots was dipped into 1,000 mgL IBA solution for 15 min before placement on a filter-paper bridge that was maintained in 1/2 MS liquid medium supplemented with 10 gL sucrose. Eighty percent of the shoots rooted, and an average of 2.0 roots per shoot were achieved. Survival rate through acclimatization was 100%.
4292921|The growth and development of white spruce somatic embryos was followed from the filamentous immature to the mature cotyledonary embryo stage. Histochemical examination of the various stages of embryo development showed that lipids, proteins, and polysaccharides were produced to varying degrees during the process. During early stages (1 to 2 wk on ABA), mostly polysaccharide was produced, whereas during later stages, polysaccharides, lipids, and protein accumulated. Electron microscopy indicated that lipid deposition in somatic embryos started during the first week after transfer to ABA-containing medium. Deposition of the storage products began at the basal end of the embryonal mass and within the proximal zone of the suspensors. Accumulation continued to the peripheral regions and then inward toward the cortex of the developing embryo. In all cases, polysaccharide accumulated first, followed by lipid and lastly, protein. Quantitatively, cotyledonary stage somatic embryos had less lipid and protein and more starch when compared to zygotic embryos at the same developmental stage. Total protein profiles elucidated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis indicated that the majority of proteins were similar in zygotic and somatic embryos. Prominent protein bands were found at 30, 20, 19.5, 15, 14.4, 12, and 10 Kd. However, protein bands at 40, 15, and 12 Kd in total protein from somatic embryos were either absent or highly underexpressed.
4293808|Various aspects of somatic embryogenesis in carrot suspension cultures were reviewed on the basis of results obtained in our laboratory. We have established high-frequency and synchronous somatic embryogenesis systems needed for biochemical and molecular analysis. Using these systems, four phases of somatic embryogenesis were identified. The importance of expression of polarities in these phases, particularly from single cells to embryogenic cell clusters, in determining somatic embryogenesis, is emphasized. At the molecular level, genes expressed during somatic embryogenesis were described, and they were classified into three categories: (1) genes involved in cell division, (2) genes involved in organ formation, and (3) genes specific for the process of somatic embryogenesis. From the results obtained, it is concluded that discrete developmental phases in carrot somatic embryogenesis are characterized by distinct biochemical and molecular events, but much remains to be understood.
4293807|Root epidermis development in Arabidopsis provides a simple and powerful model for studying cell fate specification. Cellular, molecular, and genetic approaches have been used to define many genes, and their corresponding proteins, that are essential for the position-dependent specification of the two root epidermal cell types. These studies have led to a working model in which a network of transcriptional regulators that is influenced by positional cues establishes differences in gene expression in neighboring cells through a set of positive and negative feedback loops. The continued analysis of this experimental system is likely to provide new insights into mechanisms of transcriptional regulation and cell-cell interactions during development.
20461591|Cotyledonary node and leaf nodal explants excised from 14-d-old in vitro-grown seedlings of Albizia odoratissima were cultured on a Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with different concentrations of 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP), N-(2-isopentenyl) adenine (2-iP) and kinetin, used either solely or in combinations. The highest frequency for shoot regeneration (82.5%), the maximum number of shoots per explant (6.9), and the maximum shoot length (2.55 cm) were obtained from cotyledonary node explants cultured on a MS medium containing 10 M BAP and 10 M 2-iP with 30 g l sucrose. Successful rooting was achieved by placing the microshoots on MS medium with 25 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) for 24 h first, then transferring to the same medium without IBA. Of the various substrates tested, vermiculite was best for plant acclimatization, in which 75% of plants survived.
20064979|Over the last 25 yr, success in characterizing the individual protein components of animal cytoskeletons was possible, in part, due to technical advances in the isolation and purification of anucleate cytoskeletons from animal cells. As a step towards characterizing protein components of the plant cytoskeleton, we have isolated cytoskeletons from cytoplasts (anucleate protoplasts) prepared from cotton fiber cells grown in ovule culture. Cytoplasts isolated into a hypertonic,
20461542|A rapid shoot multiplication protocol was established for an important medicinal plant, Vitex negundo L., belonging to the family Verbenaceae, using Murashige and Skoog medium, achieved by shoot multiplication as well as callus regeneration. Shoot multiplication was induced by different concentrations of 1-phenyl-3-(1,2,3-thiadiazol-5-yl)-urea (TDZ), Benzyladenine and 6-furfuryl amino purine separately along with 10% (v/v) coconut water. Green organogenetic callus was obtained by the combined effect of 0.5-2.15 M TDZ and 1.7 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) along with 1% polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP), and produced the maximum number of shoots when subcultured onto medium containing 2.7 M TDZ alone. Elongation of in vitro shoots was observed in MS medium containing 2.4 M gibberellic acid and rooting was induced by the combined effect of 1.71 M IAA and 1.62 M -naphthalene acetic acid.
20461613|A regeneration system from protoplast to plantlet for a medicinal plant species, Phellodendron amurense Rupr., has been developed. Leaves of micropropagated shoots or plantlets were selected as plant materials for protoplast isolation. The yield and viability of leaf protoplasts were greatly influenced by the enzyme combination, treatment time and osmoticum. The highest viability (86%) with a yield of 7.1  10 protoplasts per gram fresh weight was obtained with a 6-h digestion in 1% Cellulase Onozuka R-10 plus 1% Driselase-20. Sustained cell division and colony formation from the protoplasts were best supported at a plating density of 4  10-6  10 protoplasts per milliliter using a 0.2% gellan gum-solidified or liquid MS (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) medium containing 0.6 M mannitol, 2.0 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) with 4.0 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). The protoplast-derived colonies formed green compact calluses when transferred to a solidified MS medium containing 2.0 M BA with 4.0 M NAA or IBA. Shoot regeneration from protoplast-derived calluses was induced on MS medium supplemented with 2.0 M BA and 1.0 M NAA or 2.5 M IBA. Shoot multiplication and elongation occurred on MS medium containing 1.0 M BA. In vitro-grown shoots were rooted on MS medium with either 0.5-4.0 M IBA or NAA. Regenerants were transferred to the Kanuma soil and successfully established under greenhouse conditions.
4293721|In vitro propagation of Andrographis paniculata (Burm. f.) Wallich ex Nees through somatic embryogenesis, and influence of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) on induction, maturation, and conversion of somatic embryos were investigated. The concentration of 2,4-D in callus induction medium determined the induction, efficacy of somatic embryogenesis, embryo maturation, and conversion. Friable callus initiated from leaf and internode explants grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2.26, 4.52, 6.78, and
20461535|Anther-derived rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica variety Yerua P.A.) plants were obtained after cryopreservation by an encapsulation/dehydration technique. Immature anthers, excised from spikelets pretreated at 8C for 8d, were encapsulated in calcium alginate beads. The beads were cultured on N6 medium with 11.5 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 2.3 M 6-furfurylaminopurine (KIN). Fifteen percent of the encapsulated anthers formed calluses when pretreated with sucrose for 3 d in liquid medium, desiccated on silica gel, slowly cooled to -30, immersed in liquid nitrogen (LN), thawed, and recultured. The cryopreserved encapsulated anthers produced 1.67 shoots/callus, in contrast to the control (non-cooled encapsulated anthers), which produced 6 shoots/callus. Eighty percent of the plantlets developed into normal plants after being transferred to greenhouse conditions. Histological observations showed that the origin of the plants was not modified by the cryopreservation process.
4293832|Carbohydrate type and concentration and their interactive effects on in vitro shoot proliferation of three lingonberry (Vaccinium vitis-idaea ssp. vitis-idaea L.) cultivars ('Regal', 'Splendor', and 'Erntedank') and two V. vitis-idaea ssp. minus (Lodd) clones ('NL1' and 'NL2') were studied. Nodal explants were grown in vitro on medium with 2  M zeatin and either glucose, sorbitol, or sucrose at a concentration of 0, 10, 20, or
4293024|Ten transformed and two non-transformed root lines of Catharanthus roseus were established. A systematic study of the growth kinetics and alkaloid content was performed over a culture cycle and showed significant differences between transformed and non-transformed cultures. Mean doubling times for transformed and normal root lines were 2.8 and 19.5 days, respectively. Alkaloid content in hairy roots was from two- to threefold higher than in the non-transformed tissues. The established transformed root lines produced a wide variety of indole alkaloids as can be observed from their complex thin layer chromatography patterns. A large quantity of serpentine was determined in two of the transformed root cultures. Alkaloid content, both quantitatively and qualitatively, has been stable in the hairy root cultures for more than 2 yr of subculturing.
4293584|An efficient protocol has been developed for the regeneration of plantlets from leaf explants of witloof chicory (Cichorium intybus L.). Regeneration via callus was obtained on modified Murashige and Skoog semisolid medium (MS) containing
4293747| Seedlings from 11 seed sources (lines) of American ginseng from different geographic regions were evaluated on Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) containing 10 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 9 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) for callus development and somatic embryo formation. Leaf and stem explants callused at a frequency of 18.2-100%, while somatic embryos were produced from these calluses at a frequency of 25-87.5% after 5 mo. Suspension cultures of nine lines were established by transferring embryogenic callus to MS liquid medium with NAA and 2,4-D at 2.5 and 2.25 M, respectively, and maintained by subcultures every 8wk. Globular somatic embryos from these cultures were germinated on half-strength MS containing 1% activated charcoal, and roots > 5 mm in length developed within 3 wk. A 7-d exposure to 3 M gibberellic acid and 5 M 6-benzylaminopurine significantly enhanced shoot development and promoted further root development. The chromosome number, profiles of the common triterpenoid saponins (ginsenosides), and random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) banding patterns in plantlets derived from suspension culture were compared to those of zygotic seedlings. The chromosome number in root tip cells and suspension cultured cells was 48. Patterns of the six major ginsenosides, determined by thin-layer chromatography, in leaves of tissue culture-derived plantlets were identical to those in seedlings. RAPD patterns among plantlets originating from the same tissue-cultured line were mostly identical; however, altered patterns were observed in some lines that had been maintained in suspension culture for almost 4yr. The results from this study indicate that propagation of desired ginseng genotypes in suspension culture can be achieved, and that biochemical and molecular markers can be used for authentication of resulting plantlets. 
20461619|Cell suspension cultures of Orthosiphon stamineus were established from friable calluses produced from leaf pieces of in vitro plantlets that were derived from nodal segments of the mother plants collected from three different geographical locations. Eight lines were eventually selected after seven subculture cycles based on the growth characteristic (plant height) of the plantlets from the three locations: two fast-growing lines (&gt;5.1 cm tall), three intermediate-growing lines (3.1-5.0 cm tall), and three slow-growing lines (&lt;3.0 cm tall). All eight lines grew well in liquid Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 4.5 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2, 4-D) and 5.4 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). All cell lines exhibited the same growth pattern but produced different maximum cell biomass when cultured in this medium. The time of harvesting the plant cells from the culture medium and the geographical source of the original plant material were both found to affect the production of rosmarinic acid (RA) in cell cultures. Two cell lines were successfully selected and identified to produce high amounts of RA. These cell lines were a fast-growing cell line from Air Itam, Penang and an intermediate-growing cell line from Relau Agriculture Research Centre, Penang which could produce 5% [(w/w) dry weight] and 4.5% [(w/w) dry weight] of RA, respectively.
23016594|Hardwood tree species in forest, plantation, and urban environments (temperate regions of the world) are important biological resources that play a significant role in the economy and the ecology of terrestrial ecosystems, and they have aesthetic and spiritual value. Because of these many values of hardwood tree species, preserving forest tree biodiversity through the use of biotechnological approaches should be an integral component in any forestry program in addition to large-scale ecologically sustainable forest management and preservation of the urban forest environment. Biotechnological tools are available for conserving tree species as well as genetic characterization that will be needed for deployment of germplasm through restoration activities. This review concentrates on the biotechnological tools available for conserving, characterizing, evaluating, and enhancing hardwood forest tree biodiversity. We focus mainly on species grown for lumber and wood products, not species grown mainly for fiber (pulp and paper production). We also present a brief summary of the importance of non-wood forest products from temperate hardwood tree species (a research area that needs further development using biotechnological techniques) and a few case studies for preserving forest tree biodiversity.
4293162|Transgenic plants of Osteospermum ecklonis were produced by cocultivation of leaf fragments with Agrobacterium tumefaciens harboring rol genes from A. rhizogenes. The phenotypic alterations caused by the different transgenes were evaluated in field trials. The genetic manipulation produced transgenic plants characterized by the following features: 1) increased number of flowers (e.g., 35SrolC and rolABC); 2) early flowering (e.g., 35SrolC); 3) change of plant growth habit: erect (rolAB, rolABC and 35SrolC) with an increased number of branches (e.g., rolABC). The color of leaves was pale green in 35SrolC and dark green in rolAB transgenic plants. In conclusion this work reports: 1) genetic engineering of the ornamental species O. ecklonis, 2) modification of the main ornamental traits of this species by rol genes, and 3) segregation of the transgenes in the progeny.
20461643|Bigtooth maple (Acer grandidentatum) is a promising ornamental tree that is not widely used in managed landscapes. Tissue culture has not been used successfully to propagate this taxon. We cultured single- and double-node explants from greenhouse-grown, 2-y old seedlings of bigtooth maples, which are indigenous to New Mexico, Texas, and Utah, on Murashige-Skoog (MS), Linsmaier-Skoog (LS), Driver-Kuniyuki Walnut (DKW), and Woody Plant (WPM) tissue culture media. Media affected shoot proliferation (P=0.0242) but the zone of explant origin (P=0.7594) did not. After four 30-d subcultures, explants on DKW media and WPM media produced 3.6 and 3.5 shoots per explant, respectively. Sprouting rates were highest on DKW, making DKW the best overall media for shoot proliferation. Double-node microshoots were rooted in vitro on DKW containing indole acetic acid (IAA). Microshoots represented six genotypes from three locations within Texas and New Mexico. Rooting percentage increased up to 15% as IAA concentration increased (P=0.0040). There was 100% survival of rooted microshoots in vented Phytatrays containing one perlite: one peat moss (v/v). We conclude that DKW can be used to proliferate microshoots, and IAA induces rooting in microshoots of bigtooth maple.
20461708|Valeriana glechomifolia, a southern Brazilian endemic species commonly known as Valerian, accumulates the bioactive terpene derivatives valepotriates in all of its organs. In vitro growth of V. glechomifolia on solid Murashige and Skoog (MS) without phytohormones at full, 75% (MS 75), or on a modified formulation (M ) was compared in stock cultures kept for up to 9 mo. without subculture. Changes in biomass accumulation, development of roots and shoots, and the production of the valepotriates acevaltrate, didrovaltrate, and valtrate were monthly evaluated. The highest biomass accumulation and root development was observed in plants grown on M , whereas better leaf development was detected in M-- and MS-medium-grown plants after 8 and 9 mo. of culture, respectively. Maximal didrovaltrate and valtrate yields were observed in M--grown plants harvested after 5 and 6 mo. of culture, respectively, whereas acevaltrate concentration was highest on M-- and MS-75-grown plants after 7 mo. of culture. Plants grown for 6 mo. without subculture in M  were successfully propagated, showing stable growth and valepotriate yields three- to sixfold higher that those observed in field-grown plants. The results showed a positive effect of combined moderate reduction in salt concentration and increases in selected micronutrients and myo-inositol amounts on both growth and valepotriate yields of extended period stock cultures of V. glechomifolia.
4293414|A somatic embryogenesis protocol was developed for Eschscholzia californica Cham. (California poppy) using embryogenic cell suspensions and optimized media conditions. Rapidly-growing, finely-dispersed embryogenic cell suspension cultures were established from embryogenic callus and maintained in B5 liquid media supplemented with
20065034|Isolated zygotic embryos of Pinus radiata D. Don germinated and their cotyledons, hypocotyl and root grew and developed further on the optimized culture medium, named LPSH2 based on the accompanying paper. The resulting plantlets appeared normal, but were one-third the size of the natural seedlings grown on water-agar medium only. When the isolated embryos were cultured on water-agar medium, they grew little and more importantly root development did not occur. Studies on biochemical changes during germination and early seedling growth showed that the patterns of changes in soluble sugar and starch content were generally different between isolated embryos and seedlings. Early on during culture the cotyledons and hypocotyls of natural seedlings had higher levels of soluble sugars and starch than the counterparts of the isolated embryos grown on the LPSH2-medium. Conversely, the root of the isolated embryos contained more soluble sugars and starch than that of the seedlings throughout the 3 wk of culture. However, little difference was found between the isolated embryos and seedlings as far as total protein concentrations and their sodium dodecyl sulfate--polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) protein profiles were concerned.
20064897|Adventitious shoot regeneration was achieved from almond leaves, cv. Boa Casta, excised from in vitro cultures of juvenile and adult material. Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium (MS) was found to be more efficient for adventitious shoot induction than a modified medium of Quoirin et al. (1977) when using identical growth regulator supplements. Thidiazuron (TDZ) at 4.54, 5.90, 6.81, and 9.08 M was used in all induction media, together with indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), or a combination of IAA and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). When N-benzyladenine (BA) was used instead of TDZ, no adventitious shoots were induced. Leaf explants of juvenile origin yielded the highest regeneration rates (40.0 and 38.2%) and required higher concentrations of TDZ for shoot induction than leaves of adult origin. An increase from 15.0 to 35.3% in the regeneration ability of adult leaf explants, tested on one of the induction media [modified medium of Quoirin et al. (1977) supplemented with 5.90 M TDZ and 2.85 M IAA], was achieved when donor shoots were subcultured twice on a medium with a low BA concentration of 1.33 M.
23016603|Artemisinin is a highly effective sesquiterpene lactone therapeutic produced in the plant, Artemisia annua. Despite its efficacy against malaria and many other infectious diseases and neoplasms, the drug is in short supply mainly because the plant produces low levels of the compound. This review updates the current understanding of artemisinin biosynthesis with a special focus on the emerging knowledge of how biosynthesis of the compound is regulated in planta.
4293810|The generation of transgenic Cucumis sativus cv. Greenlong plants resistant to phosphinothricin (PPT) was obtained using Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated gene transfer. The protocol relied on the regeneration of shoots from cotyledon explants. Transformed shoots were obtained on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with
41432447|The comparative effects of salinity and drought on activity of antioxidant enzymes such as Superoxide dismutase (SOD), peroxidase (POX), catalase (CAT), and polyphenol oxidase (PPO) and contents of protein, proline, hydrogen peroxide, malondialdehyde (MDA), and carotenoids were studied in calluses of Salicornia prsica and Salicornia europaea. Calluses were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium (MS medium) containing iso-osmotic concentrations of NaCl (100, 300, and 600 mM) and mannitol (200, 500, and 1000 mM). Proline content increased in calluses of both species under NaCl-and mannitol-inducd stresses. Under both stresses, S. persica accumulated higher amounts of protein as compared to S. europaea. Under both stresses, protein content in S. prsica decreased in comparison to control. Antioxidant enzyme activities showed different trends in the two Salicornia species under salt and drought stresses but were higher in S. europaea than in S. prsica. Changes of hydrogen peroxide and MDA contents of calluses subjected to salt stress followed a pattern different from that observed under drought stress. MDA content showed similar changes to hydrogen peroxide content. Carotenoid content decreased in both species under both stresses. Overall, at the cellular level, S. europaea calluses were more tolerant to both NaCl-and mannitol-induced stresses than calluses of S. persica.
42568706|We have optimized a procedure for genetic transformation of a major leafy vegetable crop, Amaranthus tricolor L., using epicotyl expiant co-cultivation with Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Two disarmed A. tumefaciens strains EHA 105 and LBA 4404, both carrying the binary plasmid p35SGUSINT harboring the neomycin phosphotransferase II gene (nptII) and the -glucuronidase gene (gus) were evaluated as vector systems. The former displayed a higher transforming efficiency. Several key factors influencing the transformation events were optimized. The highest percentage of transformed shoots (24.24%) was achieved using hand-pricked epicotyl explants, a 10-min infection period, with 100 m acetosyringone-pretreated Agrobacterium culture corresponding to OD0.6 and diluted to 10 cells ml, followed by 4 d co-cultivation in the regeneration medium. Putative transformed explants capable of forming shoots were selected on medium supplemented with 75gml kanamycin, and transient as well as stable glucuronidase expression was determined by histochemical analysis. Form a total of 48 selected shoot lines derived from independent transformation events with epicotyl explants co-cultivated with EHA 105, 32 showed positive PCR amplification for both the nptII and gus genes. Germ line transformation and transgene stability were evident in progeny of primary transformed plants (T). Among T seedlings of 12 selected transgenic plant lines, kanamycinresistant and kanamycin-sensitive seedlings segregated in a ratio typical of the Mendelian monohybrid pattern (3:1) as verified by the chi-square (X) test. Southern hybridization of genomic DNA from kanamycin-resistant T transgenic segregants to an nptII probe substantiated stable integration of the transgene. Neomycin phosphotransferase (NPTII) activity was detected in leaf protein extracts of selected T transgenic plants, thereby confirming stable expression of the nptII gene.
20064991|Cultures of Minthostachys mollis were established from nodal explants obtained under aseptic conditions. Explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) half-strength medium containing 6-benzyladenine (BA), and/or naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Optimum numbers of healthy shoots were induced on media containing 0.05 M NAA plus 2.2 M BA; higher concentrations caused more hyperhydricity and less extension. Rooting was achieved on half-strength MS medium with 0.05 M NAA. Plantlets were acclimatized and successfully transferred to soil. Essential oil composition of the regenerated plants were determined by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry and little differences were found in the essential oil composition with the plant grown in the wild.
4293127|Microbial contaminants were detected in surface-sterilized strawberry runner expiants partially submerged in half-strength liquid Murashige and Skoog medium. From June to August, 1994, 45 of 70 strawberry genotypes were found to be contaminated, whereas from June to August, 1995, 53 of 72 contained contaminants. There were more bacterial than fungal contaminants. Bacterial contaminants from 22 strawberry genotypes were isolated, purified, and identified to genus by standard biochemical tests such as Gram's stain, motility, oxidase, and gelatinase, and carbon source utilization (Biolog Microplates, Biolog, Inc., Hayward, CA). Among the 30 isolates identified with the Biolog system, the majority were fluorescent pseudomonads including Pseudomonas fluorescens types A, F, and G. P. corrugata, P. tolaasii, P. paucimobilis, Xanthomonas campestris, Xanthomonas spp., and Enterobacter cloacae were also identified. Five Gram-negative and two Gram-positive contaminants could not be identified by the Biolog test. Biochemical tests were used to characterize the bacteria and to confirm Biolog test results. Bacteria identified in this study were soil, water, and plant related, indicating that efforts to reduce expiant contaminant levels should be centered on the care of stock plants or the sterility of the watering system.
40663782|Cedrela odorata L. is a valuable tropical tree widely appreciated for its wood. This species confronts serious problems due to both overexploitation of its natural populations and its susceptibility to the Meliaceae borer Hypsipyla grandella, which destroys the apical meristems and produces structural deformations. The rapid introduction of new varieties through clonal forestry has been demonstrated to be the most effective way to improve the production of perennial plantation species. In this work, we report both a protocol for the rejuvenation of elite mature trees of C. odorata and the optimization of an in vitro culture system to scale up micropropagation. Several media formulations and the use of temporary immersion culture in bioreactors were evaluated. The addition of 20% coconut water to TY17 medium increased the number of adventitious shoots from hypocotyl segments to an average number of 4.68 shoots per expiant. To replace coconut water and to define the culture medium, several cytokinins were tested at various concentrations; however, none of them produced the effect of coconut water. Rejuvenation of elite mature individuals was investigated by ex vitro grafting of mature tree twigs onto 3-mo-old juvenile trees. Although the grafting had a positive effect on the micropropagation of mature material, the multiplication rate of 1.5 new shoots per expiant did not compare to the organogenic capacity of younger materials. Shoot and root elongation as well as acclimatization to ex vitro conditions were carried out in a temporary immersion culture of juvenile material using BioMINT bioreactors. A 3.5-fold increase in shoot elongation and a 4-fold increase in root elongation were achieved compared to material cultured on semisolid media. Furthermore, this culture system allowed for 98% effectiveness in the soil adaptation of the in vitro grown plants. The scaled-up multiplication capacity over a period of 6 mo calculated for the system is above 16,000 plants per mother plant with young materials but is only 125 with mature materials.
4293124|A reliable method to screen Anthurium for burrowing nematode resistance and tolerance in vitro was developed using 17 genetically distinct Anthurium cultivars. Based on nonparametric data analysis, tolerance and resistance were found to be independent traits to be evaluated separately. An effective parameter for tolerance evaluation was ranking of relative leaf retention, whereas an effective parameter for resistance evaluation was the ranking of nematode reproduction, log(Rf + 1). A comparison of the ranking of leaf retention with ranking of nematode reproduction clustered the cultivar responses to burrowing nematode infection into four groups: intolerant and resistant, moderately tolerant but susceptible, intolerant and susceptible, and tolerant and susceptible. 'Ozaki' was identified as an intolerant reference, 'Nitta' as a susceptible reference. 'Blushing Bride' was the most tolerant cultivar among those screened, but it may not be an ideal tolerant reference due to its low vigor. Future screening for burrowing nematode-tolerant and -resistant cultivars in Anthurium should include 'Ozaki' and 'Nitta' as internal controls. Evaluation of resistance should be based on a resistance index obtained by log(Rf of hybrid tested + 1) divided by log(Rf of 'Nitta' + 1); tolerance should be based on ranking of relative leaf retention.
20461602|A rapid and one-step protocol for direct regeneration of shoots from cumin embryo explants has been developed. Embryo explants with shoot meristems were cultured on shoot regeneration medium for 15-22 d. After embryo culture, shoots were regenerated from the area adjacent to the region between the cotyledons and embryo axis within 2 wk, without any intermediate callus phase. Shoot proliferation and elongation were achieved on shoot regeneration medium without subculture. Among the different combinations of 6-benzylaminopurine, -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) tested, 0.8 mg l (4.3 M) NAA in combination with 0.3 mg l (1.71 M) IAA in the B5 medium resulted in the most efficient direct shoot regeneration. No significant difference was detected for the number of regenerated explants when different heterogeneous endemic varieties were compared. This plant regeneration procedure was applicable to different cumin genotypes and regenerated plants were phenotypically normal.
4293270| Cassava is uniquely suited for food security and economic development in unfavored areas of the tropics. Development research for cassava is an urgent need. In 1998, the Cassava Biotechnology Network (CBN) convened a workshop of cassava stakeholder groups in Latin America. After hearing an opening statement from representatives of small-scale cassava producers and processors, stakeholders formulated a consensus set of research and development (R&D) priorities. An adequate supply of good-quality planting material of desired varieties was clearly the most urgent, followed by R&D on market-value traits; yield losses due to pests, diseases, and drought; and cropping system flexibility. Two new projects are using in vitro techniques to address priorities of small-scale cassava farmers in Latin America. One project in Colombia combines a nongovernmental organization, a local farmers' association, and the international research center, CIAT, to explore affordable micropropagation. Findings to date show that most culture medium components can be replaced with local products, and a rustic growth room permits good culture growth without electricity or air conditioning. Low-costs system(s) developed will be assessed as a local microenterprise. A second project, in Ecuador, couples local cassava germplasm (with oral histories and an in vitro back-up collection) and elite clones (introduced in vitro) with new concepts in agribusiness development, to restart local farmers' cooperatives after the disastrous 1998-99 el Nio floods. The project was developed through group planning by the cooperatives, the local technical university, the national agricultural research program, and CIAT. Research to improve in vitro tools focuses on safe and stable conservation and exchange of cassava genetic resources, long-term, less expensive conservation, rapid clonal propagation, and ultimately, genetic transformation technologies to add desired traits to useful cassava varieties. 
20461646|This paper addresses the assumed autonomy of vascular plants by revealing the presence of an obligate fungus structurally integrated with leaf antomy of C4 grasses. We examined leaf surfaces of 26 species representing 14 genera of C4 grasses. In all species, we found similarities between leaf surface microhair-like structures and Uredomycete teliospores. These bicellular structures produced hyphae and spores, confirming they were fungal, rather than plant tissue. The plant-fungus structural morphology was also observed in Bouteloua eriopoda plants regenerated from embryonic meristem cells. The conserved symbiosis between fungi and C4 grasses suggests a lichenous association with evolutionary significance. The structural integration of endosymbiotic fungi with cells and tissues offers novel and unexplored approaches to developing physiological, ecological, and systematic models of C4 grasses.
20461680|This paper reports the elimination of Indian citrus ringspot virus (ICRSV) from "kinnow" (Citrus nobilis Lour  Citrus deliciosa Tenora) employing phytotherapy coupled with shoot tip grafting under in vitro conditions. Nodal segments from infected mother plant (indexed by indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay [ELISA] and reverse transcriptase PCR [RT-PCR]) were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 2iP (1 mg/l or 4.9 M) and malt extract (800 mg/l) along with different concentrations of aqueous extracts from leaves of Azadirachta indica (Neem), Sorghum vulgare (Jowar), and roots of Boerhaavia diffusa (Punarnava). Shoot tips were excised from the nodal sprouts and grafted on to rough lemon (Citrus jambhiri) under aseptic conditions. Maximum effect (50% virus elimination) was seen for aqueous leaf extracts of A. indica followed by B. diffusa root extract (42.86%) and S. vulgare leaf extract (31.58%). Plants/plantlets were considered virus-free only when showing negative reactions by both indirect ELISA and RT-PCR.
4293070|Microspore-derived embryos of Brassica napus cv. Topas that survived salt stress, were obtained after selection against otherwise lethal doses (0.6 and 0.7%) of NaCl after mutagen treatment. A total of 10 salt-surviving embryos were obtained out of a possible 834 000 embryos that were mutagenized. One embryo out of a possible 845 000 obtained from non-mutagenized controls survived but failed to develop into a plant. Visual assessment after salt stress indicated that both the putative salt-tolerant plants and plants from control seeds behaved similarly. However, based on individual characteristics related to salt tolerance, one of the lines (PST-2) accumulated less sodium and retained more potassium, and hence was able to maintain a more favorable Na : K ratio as compared to the controls under salt stress. Also chlorophyll a fluorescence induction and quenching signals indicated a high energetic state of the thylakoid membranes in PST-2 under salt stress. The other putative salt-tolerant line (PST-1) had a higher background level of proline that may have enabled it to survive salt stress during initial screening, although its later performance was no better than the control plants.
4293292|Colletotrichum gloeosporioides Penz., the causal agent of mango anthracnose, produces a phytotoxin in vitro. The partially purified phytotoxin, presumably colletotrichin, caused anthracnose-like symptoms on young mango leaves, was toxic to embryogenic suspension cultures of two mango cultivars, 'Hindi' and 'Carabao,' and inhibited in vitro seed germination of two nonhosts, lettuce and tobacco. There were linear relationships between concentration of the partially purified phytotoxin and mortality of mango embryogenic cultures. Embryogenic cultures grown in the presence of the partially purified phytotoxin showed significantly lower growth rates than the controls. Similarly, embryogenic cultures grown in the presence of 40% (vol/vol) fungal culture filtrate showed significantly lower growth rates than unchallenged controls. Medium containing 40% (vol/vol) Czapek-Dox fungal broth did not reduce growth of embryogenic cultures, indicating the production of phytotoxin in vitro. The results suggest that either fungal culture filtrate or purified phytotoxin can be used as in vitro selection agents to screen for resistance to this fungus.
29736192|A complete protocol is presented for the first time for the micropropagation of Pongamia pinnata, a biofuel tree, using cotyledonary nodes derived from axenic seedlings. Multiple shoots were induced in vitro from nodal segments through forced axillary branching. Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 7.5 M benzylaminopurine (BAP) induced up to 6.8 shoots per node with an average shoot length of 0.67 cm in 12 d. Incorporation of 2.5 M gibberellic acid (GA) in the medium during the first subculture after establishment and initiation of shoot buds significantly improved the shoot elongation. Single use of GA during the first subculture eliminated the need for prolonged culturing on BAP medium. Further use of GA in the medium was not useful. Shoot culture was established for at least two subcultures without loss of vigor by repeatedly subculturing the original cotyledonary node on shoot multiplication medium followed by shoot elongation medium after each harvest of the newly formed shoots. Thus, from a single cotyledonary node, about 16-18 shoots were obtained in 60 d. Shoots formed in vitro were rooted on full-strength MS medium supplemented with 1.0 M indole butyric acid (IBA). Plantlets were successfully acclimated, established in soil, and transferred to the nursery.
4293590|An efficient and reproducible protocol for the regeneration of shoots at high frequency was developed by using explants derived from the axillary meristems from the cotyledonary nodes of in vitro-germinated seedlings of chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.). Culture conditions for various stages of adventitious shoot regeneration including the induction, elongation, and rooting of the elongated shoots were optimized. The medium for synchronous induction of multiple shoot buds consisted of Murashige and Skoog basal medium (MS) with low concentrations of thidiazuron (TDZ), 2-isopentenyladenine (2-iP), and kinetin. Exclusion of TDZ and lowering the concentration of 2-iP and kinetin in the elongation medium resulted in faster and enhanced frequency of elongated shoots. Cultivation of the stunted shoots on MS with giberellic acid (GA
4293306|Somatic embryogenesis was induced in callus cultures derived from nucellar tissue of cashewnut (Anacardium occidentale L.). Callus was obtained from nucellar tissue after 3 wk of culture on semisolid Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with
4293158| Bacteriophage lambda particles, yeast cells, and bacterial cells were tested as projectiles to deliver marker/reporter genes into plant cells via the biolistic process. When phage particles were complexed to tungsten or gold particles and used to bombard tobacco cells, fewer than 15 cell clusters per plate transiently expressed -glucuronidase (GUS). Cells of wild-type Saccharomyces cerevisiae were too large to be effective projectiles, but use of a reduced-size mutant resulted in a small number of transformants. Escherichia coli cells complexed with tungsten were the most effective projectile for plant transformation. Various methods to prepare E. coli were tested to reduce particle size, improve binding of bacteria to metal particles, and/or minimize particle clumping. In maize, the number of transformants was highest when bacteria/tungsten particles were air-dried onto macrocarriers from an aqueous solution. When maize cells were bombarded with bacteria/tungsten projectiles, rates of transient gene expression (2000 per plate) and stable transformation (50 per plate) were only two- to threefold lower than when purified DNA was used. Transformation of tobacco with E. coli projectiles was improved when the bacteria were treated with a series of ethanol and ether washes, then dried into a powder. Nevertheless, tobacco transformation was still 24- (transient) and 200-fold (stable) less than when purified DNA was used. Biological projectiles can be effective for plant transformation and are advantageous because once a DNA construct is made and put into the appropriate microorganism, the need to isolate and purify DNA for the biolistic process is eliminated, which saves time and lessens DNA shear. Such projectiles may be especially well suited where high molecular weight DNA constructs are needed. 
4293043|A cell suspension culture of poplar (Populus deltoides (Marsh.) Bartr. var. occidentalis Rydb.), accumulating the anthocyanin pigment, cyanidin 3-glucoside, in the lag phase of culture growth, was subjected to osmotic stress with glucose and mannitol. Osmotic stress treatments resulted in growth suppression and higher anthocyanin accumulation compared with unstressed cells. Both an increase in the proportion of pigmented cells and an increase in the concentration of anthocyanin in the pigmented cells were responsible for high anthocyanin content of cultured cells subjected to osmotic stress. The osmotic stress induced by glucose suppressed growth more than that by mannitol and produced higher anthocyanin levels. Only small amounts of
20461663|This study reports a protocol for successful micropropagation of Penthorum chinense using nodal explants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 6-benzyladenine (BA) or kinetin (Kn). The presence of BA promoted a higher rate of shoot multiplication than Kn. Maximum multiple shoot formation was observed in 59.2% of nodal explants cultured on MS medium supplemented with 2.0 mg l BA after 6 wk. After subculture for 4 wk, the maximum number of shoots (6.4) was obtained on a medium with 2.0 mg l BA, but shoots were too short and not suitable for micropropagation. The taller shoots that regenerated in the presence of lower BA concentration (1.0 mg l) were selected for root induction study. Most shoots (98.8%) rooted in the presence of 0.5 mg l indole-3-acetic acid after 3 wk, with each shoot forming an average of 10.0 roots. Plantlets were transferred to soil and successfully acclimatized.
29736200|Swertia chirata is an endangered Gentian species used as herbal medicine for various health ailments including liver disorders, malaria, and diabetes. The depletion of S. chirata from the wild for such applications is a concern. Slow rates of propagation because of poor seed germination and low seed viability are presently limiting factors for its large-scale commercial cultivation. For commercial plantation and conservation of existing germplasm, in vitro multiplication is an attractive solution. The present investigation has achieved production of genetically uniform plants from the nodal explants. Shoot regeneration was obtained in shoot-inducing medium containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog's basal medium supplemented with 0.44 M 6-benzylaminopurine and 4.65 M 6-furfurylaminopurine. The highest number of shoots, at 18 per explant, regenerated when media was further fortified with 10 mM KNO and 75 mg l of casein hydrolysate. Tissue culture regenerated plantlets were successfully transferred to the field and produced viable seeds. Studies of chromosome number and a comparative analysis of the DNA fingerprinting profiles indicate genetic stability of the regenerated plants.
23326892|Miscanthus  giganteus is a perennial grass considered to be one of the most promising biofuel and bioenergy crops because of its high biomass and quality, and low requirement for fertilizers and pesticides. Market demand for Miscanthus is rapidly increasing. However, M.  giganteus is a triploid that cannot produce viable seeds, and it has traditionally been propagated through rhizome division, which is low throughput and labor-intensive. Plant tissue culture provides the potential to propagate M.  giganteus in vitro while maintaining the original plant characteristics. Although protocols exist for M.  giganteus micropropagation, the multiplication rate and plant quality need to be improved to meet commercial demands. For this research, we have assessed callus induction, callus multiplication, plantlet regeneration, shoot multiplication, shoot quality improvement, rooting, plant acclimatization, and survival in the greenhouse and in the field. Through these studies, we have developed an efficient system for high-quality, large-scale micropropagation of M.  giganteus. The plants produced from our protocol exhibited more than 99% survival in soil due to the production of vigorous shoots and roots.
4292989| A complete protocol for micropropagation of 4-yr-old plants of the bamboo Dendrocalamus longispathus is described. Culture initiation was strongly influenced by the nature of the explant and the season. In vitro multiplication was achieved through forced axillary branching. Single node segments from the young lateral branches produced multiple shoots on agar-solidified Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 12 M benzylaminopurine (BAP) and 3 M kinetin. The shoots have been multiplied for 15 passages in liquid and thereafter for over 5 passages on semisolid MS + 15 M BAP + 1M indolebutyric acid (IBA) + 10% coconut water at a rate of 3.2- and 2.8-fold, every 4 wk, respectively. The nature of the propagule was a critical factor for shoot multiplication and rooting. Seventy-three percent of the shoots rooted on a modified MS medium (major salts reduced to half strength) containing 1 M indoleacetic acid, 1 M IBA, and 68 M coumarin. Through a simple in vitro hardening step, more than 85% of the tissue culture-raised plants were successfully transferred to soil. 
4293764| Seedlings from 11 seed sources (lines) of American ginseng from different geographic regions were evaluated on Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) containing 10 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 9 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) for callus development and somatic embryo formation. Leaf and stem explants callused at a frequency of 18.2-100%, while somatic embryos were produced from these calluses at a frequency of 25-87.5% after 5 mo. Suspension cultures of nine lines were established by transferring embryogenic callus to MS liquid medium with NAA and 2,4-D at 2.5 and 2.25 M, respectively, and maintained by subcultures every 8wk. Globular somatic embryos from these cultures were germinated on half-strength MS containing 1% activated charcoal, and roots > 5 mm in length developed within 3 wk. A 7-d exposure to 3 M gibberellic acid and 5 M 6-benzylaminopurine significantly enhanced shoot development and promoted further root development. The chromosome number, profiles of the common triterpenoid saponins (ginsenosides), and random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) banding patterns in plantlets derived from suspension culture were compared to those of zygotic seedlings. The chromosome number in root tip cells and suspension cultured cells was 48. Patterns of the six major ginsenosides, determined by thin-layer chromatography, in leaves of tissue culture-derived plantlets were identical to those in seedlings. RAPD patterns among plantlets originating from the same tissue-cultured line were mostly identical; however, altered patterns were observed in some lines that had been maintained in suspension culture for almost 4yr. The results from this study indicate that propagation of desired ginseng genotypes in suspension culture can be achieved, and that biochemical and molecular markers can be used for authentication of resulting plantlets. 
4293530|In this paper we discuss the changes in the number of plants developed per embryogenic mass, the percentage of embryogenic masses that developed plants, the percentage of plant regeneration, and the index of vigor of regenerated plants for embryogenic masses that were induced from daily samples of a cell suspension culture of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Taipei 309). The results indicate that embryogenic masses that matured first and were induced from freshly subcultured cell suspension culture had the highest values for the four parameters. An index of vigor of the regenerated plants was defined.
20461694|An effective micropropagation technique via somatic embryogenesis has been developed using tissue from serially grafted shoots generated from a mature Kalopanax septemlobus tree (40 y old). Callus was induced from leaf segments obtained from the grafts by culturing the explants in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2,4-D and 3% w/v sucrose under darkness. The effects of sucrose, coconut water, and polyethylene glycol (PEG-3350) were evaluated as factors to promote development of somatic embryos (SEs) from embryogenic callus. More than 90% of explants formed callus; however, only 2.5%, or 20 leaf segments out of 800 explants, formed embryogenic callus after 8 wk of culture. High sucrose concentrations (3% and 5% w/v) were effective in inducing SEs. Treatment with 2-10% v/v coconut water also had a positive effect on embryo induction. A synergistic effect on SE induction was obtained using sucrose and PEG, with presence of the latter compound resulting in smaller, more uniform SEs. Embryo germination and conversion to plantlets were significantly influenced by the gelling agents. In general, gelrite-gelled medium was superior to agar-gelled medium. In gelrite-gelled medium, gibberillic acid (GA) enhanced embryo germination. Converted plantlets in an artificial soil mixture showed a 91% survival rate and displayed no distinct morphological variations. Our results indicate that reliable somatic embryogenesis and plant production can be achieved with rejuvenated tissues after repeated grafting of shoots derived from a mature Kalopanax septemlobus tree.
4293522|Plum shoot proliferation was investigated in terms of two distinct processes: axillary bud differentiation and axillary shoot development. Results showed that light quality influenced bud differentiation and interacted with apical dominance in determining shoot outgrowth, resulting in a differentiated structure of shoot clusters and type of branching. Results suggested that blue light, acting through its photoreceptor, increased the number of axillary buds differentiated from apical meristem, but did not remove the apical dominance. Red light removed apical dominance, while reducing the formation of axillary buds; both events appeared to be dependent on the putative amount of phytochrome active form, and independent of light photon fluence rate. On the contrary, blue light action appeared to be dependent on photon fluence rate. In addition, apparent blue-red interactions related to photomorphogenic events fit an antagonistic model for branching regulated by light via cryptochrome and phytochrome photoreceptors. Our results show that the dynamics of shoot cluster development is the product of two events: the formation of new axillary buds and their release from apical dominance.
4293583|Caustis blakei is an attractive cut foliage plant harvested from the wild in Australia and marketed under the name of koala fern. Previous attempts to propagate large numbers of this plant have been unsuccessful. The effect of four light irradiances on organogenesis from compact and friable callus of C. blakei was studied for 21 wk. Both callus types produced numerous primordial shoots but many failed to develop into green plantlets. However, significantly more primordial shoots and green plantlets developed on the friable callus than on the compact callus, and significantly more green plantlets were regenerated under the higher photon irradiances of 200 and
20461564|A method for the micropropagation of Spathiphyllum cannifolium is presented using shoot tip proliferation onto Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with different plant growth regulator concentrations and combinations. The proliferation responses were significantly influenced by the cytokinin type and concentrations. Supplementation of the medium with benzyladenine (BA; 4.44-13.32 M) increased the shoot proliferation rate significantly as compared to other treatments. When cytokinins were used with auxin (indole-3-butyric acid, IBA and naphthalene acetic acid, NAA), the number of shoots per explant increased in comparison with treatments with BA alone. The largest number of shoots, 9.3 per explant, was obtained with 13.32 M BA and 4.9 M IBA. Different MS medium strengths and sucrose concentrations were used with the aim to stimulate in vitro shoot proliferation. Full MS medium with 30 g l sucrose was found to be suitable for shoot tip culture of Spathiphyllum. Comparative studies between gelled medium and bioreactor culture [continuous immersion (with or without net) and temporary immersion in liquid media using ebb and flood] revealed that shoot multiplication and growth were more efficient in continuous immersion (with net) bioreactor with low cytokinin-supplemented media. Plantlets from the bioreactor were cultured hydroponically for 30 d and 100% of plants were rooted and acclimatized successfully. Rapid and efficient multiplication rate in bioreactor and successful transfer to greenhouse makes this protocol suitable for large-scale multiplication of this important foliage plant.
20461750|Seashore paspalum (Paspalum vaginatum Swartz) is a salt tolerant, fine textured turfgrass used on golf courses in coastal, tropical, and subtropical regions. A callus induction and plant regeneration protocol for this commercially important turfgrass species has been developed. Induction of highly regenerable callus with approximately 400 shoots per cultured immature inflorescence (1 cm in length) was achieved by culturing 0.2 cm segments on media with 3 mg l 3,6-dichloro-2-methoxybenzoic acid (dicamba) and 0.1 or 1.0 mg l benzylaminopurine (BA). A multifactorial experiment demonstrated the combination of 3 mg l dicamba and 1.0 mg l BA for induction of callus resulted in 12 times higher plant regeneration frequency compared to 3 mg l 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) alone or ten times higher plant regeneration frequency than the combination of 3 mg l 2,4-D and 1.0 mg l BA. These results are expected to support the development of a genetic transformation protocol for seashore paspalum.
41318703|Recent research has reported the presence of melatonin (N-acetyl-5-methoxytryptamine), a mammalian indoleamine neurohormone, in higher plants, indicating that melatonin may be an important metabolic regulator that has been highly conserved across biological kingdoms. Melatonin is synthesized from tryptophan in the mammalian pineal gland and a similar biosynthetic pathway was recently described in St. John's wort shoot tissues, wherein radiolabel from tryptophan was recovered in serotonin and melatonin as well as indoleacetic acid. There is growing information describing melatonin control of physiological processes in mammals, yeast, and bacteria, including diurnal responses, detoxification of free radicals, and environmental adaptations. However, at the current time, there is no known specific role for melatonin in plant physiology. Alterations in melatonin concentrations in plant tissues have been shown to affect root development, mitosis, and mitotic spindle formation. The recent advancements in melatonin research in plants and some directions for important areas of future research are reviewed in this article.
4293758|The effect of different sealing materials [i.e., polyvinyl chloride (PVC) transparent film, and Parafilm (PARA)] for Petri dishes was investigated on shoot regeneration from quince (Cydonia oblonga L.) 'BA 29' leaf explants. Leaves were excised from proliferating shoot cultures, transversally scored, and placed with the abaxial side down in 60-mm Petri dishes containing 10 ml of Murashige and Skoog modified medium, with
4293552|Nodal cuttings of Eucalyptus camaldulensis L. plantlets were cultured photoautotrophically (sugar-free nutrient medium and with enriched CO
40663764|Germplasm conservation of Podophyllum peltatum L. was attempted by using synthetic seed technology and media supplemented with osmotic agents. Excised buds from in vitro cultures were encapsulated in calcium alginate beads and cultured on different substrates then stored at 5, 10, and 25C for up to 8 mo. Survival and vigor in re-growth were the parameters used to evaluate the germplasm storage conditions. Vigor in re-growth was measured by number of buds induced after storage, which was achieved on a substrate containing water solidified with 1% wlv agar under 10 C. In vitro storage of shoot cultures was also evaluated by supplementing osmotic agents, mannitol, or sorbitol to the media. Such treatment had a negative impact on post-storage re-growth (at 25C), even though the inclusion of 2% wlv sorbitol and mannitol each to the media increased plantlet survival during 10C storage treatment. A deleterious effect was noticed among cultures in re-growth when higher concentrations of these supplements were added to the media. Genetic stability was assessed following 8 mo of storage using a PCR-based multilocus DNA fingerprinting technique, amplified fragment-length polymorphism. No differences in the DNA fragment patterns were observed using eight primer combinations in stored clones. However, a polymorphic band was noticed in the accession that served as expiant source, suggesting that the mutation has occurred prior to this study perhaps during the 9 yr of in vitro cultivation.
4293715|The diploid cotton species can constitute a valuable gene pool for the more agronomically desirable cultivated tetraploid cultivars and offer better opportunities to study gene structure and function through gene knockouts. In order to exploit these advantages, a regeneration system is required to achieve these transformation-based goals. Carbohydrate source and concentration were evaluated to improve somatic embryo (SE) production and desiccation treatments to improve the conversion efficiency of SEs to plants in a diploid Gossypium arboreum accession,
4293371|Direct gene transfer into peanut intact embryonic leaflets was performed through electroporation. In transient
23016599|The Southwest Australian Floristic Region (SWAFR) is a plant biodiversity hotspot with a geographically isolated and predominantly endemic flora. Known threatening processes (i.e. excessive clearing of native vegetation, soil salinity, soil erosion and chronic weed infestation) combined with uncertain but potentially deleterious environmental (climate) changes pose great challenges for conservation and restoration efforts. With a paucity of nature reserves, in situ protection of species can be problematic. For many species, ex situ conservation becomes the only viable strategy for saving species from extinction via seed banking or living collections established through vegetative propagation, or tissue (in vitro) culture methods. Development of specific in vitro protocols is necessary to successfully initiate culture lines, with considerable development of nutrient media, plant growth regulator regimes and incubation conditions required to optimise shoot regeneration and multiplication, especially with woody species of the SWAFR. In addition, integration of root induction and acclimatization stages has allowed significant improvements in speed and success of plant production of both endangered and difficult-to-propagate woody species. We contend that there is also considerable potential for expansion of alternative in vitro technologies such as somatic embryogenesis for difficult taxa to complement existing ex situ conservation and restoration strategies in biodiversity hotspots such as SWAFR.
4293893| An efficient protocol was established for in vitro shoot multiplication from nodal explants of Clitoria ternatea on semisolid Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with 8.9 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA). Inclusion of 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) in the culture medium along with BA promoted higher rates of shoot multiplication than BA alone. The rate of shoot multiplication was maximum (5.21) after 4 wk of culture on MS basal medium supplemented with 8.9 M BA and 1.34 M NAA. The elongated shoots rooted within 7-8 d in half-strength MS basal salts supplemented with 1.34 M NAA and 2% (w/v) sucrose. About 85% of the rooted plantlets were acclimatized and transferred to the greenhouse. 
20461617|In oak species, there is paucity of information on the anatomical changes underlying differentiation of somatic embryos from explants of mature trees. A histological study was undertaken to ascertain the cellular origin and ontogenesis of somatic embryos in leaf cultures from a 100-yr-old Quercus robur tree. Somatic embryogenesis was induced in expanding leaves excised from shoots forced from branch segments, following culture on three successive media containing different concentrations of -naphthaleneacetic acid and 6-benzylaminopurine. The somatic embryogenesis followed an indirect pathway from a callus tissue formed in the leaf lamina. After 4-6 wk of culture, meristematic cells originated in superficial layers of callus protuberances, but these cells evolved into differentiated vacuolated cells rather than embryos. A subsequent dedifferentiation into embryogenic cells occurred later (9-12 wk of culture) within a dissociating callus. Embryogenic cells exhibited dense protein-rich protoplasm, high nucleoplasmic ratio, and contained small starch grains. Successive divisions of these cells led to the formation of a few-celled proembryos and embryogenic cell clumps within a thick common cell wall, which seemed to have originated unicellularly. However, a multicellular origin of larger embryogenic clumps could not be dismissed; these gave rise to embryonic nodular structures that developed somatic embryos of both uni- and multicellular origin. Somatic embryos at successive stages of development, including cotyledonary-stage embryos with shoot and root meristems, were apparent.
20064821|Haploid and diploid anther-derived Zea mays callus lines were treated with the antimicrotubule herbicide pronamide to produce mixed ploidy callus as determined by flow cytometry. The ploidy levels of the plants regenerated from the callus were determined by counting the leaf epidermal guard cell chloroplast numbers. The proportion of diploid regenerated plants was somewhat lower than the proportion of diploid cells of the callus. The diploid plants regenerated somewhat faster than the haploids. The proportion of tetraploids regenerated from the pronamide treated diploid callus, which originated by spontaneous chromosome doubling, was much lower than the proportion of cells indicating that tetraploid cells survive or regenerate plants at a lower frequency than diploid cells.
20064813|The betalains are a class of natural pigments comprising the yellow betaxanthins and the violet betacyanins. Callus lines developed from Beta vulgaris L. var. bikores monogerm exhibited cell colors ranging from white/green (nonpigmented) through yellow, orange, red, and violet and were representative of all betalain pigments found in the whole plant. The betalains have gained particular interest from the food industry as potential natural alternatives to synthetic food colorants in use today. Red beet extracts (E162), which contain significant amounts of the betacyanins, are currently used in products such as yogurts and ice creams. We describe here the characteristics of culture growth and betalain production for cell suspensions derived from the orange (predominantly betaxanthin-producing) and violet (betacyanin producing) callus lines. The major factors affecting betalain biosynthesis in both cultured and whole plant tissues are reviewed.
4292942| The lengthy dormancy requirement of yew seeds can be overcome with a simple in vitro method. Viable embryos were excised from seeds of Taxus brevifolia and four cultivars of T. media over a range of developmental stages. Embryos were cultured in several basal media formulations (Whites', Gamborg's B5 and Murashige and Skoog's) under dark or light. After a lag period of 1 to 2 wk, embryos of both species germinated precociously. Germination rates of up to 70% were obtained with T. media cv. Hicksi embryos. The highest rates of germination were obtained in White's and MS media. Embryos excised from green seeds with undeveloped arils showed the highest germination rates. As the seeds approached maturity, in vitro germination rates of the excised embryos declined dramatically. Green seeds and seeds with developing arils could be stored at 5 C without large loss in embryo germination. Seeds with fully developed arils could be stored frozen at -20 C for 1 wk while still allowing about 50% of embryo germination. At least 30% of the precociously germinated embryos of both species were able to develop into full seedlings. Our method appears to be generally applicable to Taxus spp. 
4293355|The growth of submerged cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) fibers from cultured ovules has been investigated. The results indicate that exogenous plant hormone levels regulate the induction of submerged fiber growth. The age of ovules at induction is also important. Cell diameter, wall thickness, and cell length of submerged fibers were measured and compared with air-grown fibers and fibers grown in vivo (produced by cotton plants grown in the greenhouse). Various cell-wall thickening patterns were observed among submerged fibers, while only one predominant cell-wall deposition pattern was produced in air-grown fibers and in fibers produced in vivo. The diameter of submerged fibers was about the same as that of air-grown fibers but about 22% less than that of fibers grown in vivo. It appears that the secondary cell wall thickenings are initiated earlier in submerged fibers. The cell-wall thickness of submerged fibers, at 41 d post anthesis (DPA), was 51% greater than that of fibers grown in vivo, whereas the cell-wall thickness of air-grown fibers was 42% less than that of fibers produced in vivo. The cell length of submerged fibers was approximately half that of fibers grown in vivo, and the air-grown fiber length was about two-thirds of fibers grown in vivo. The age of ovules at induction affects the outcome of the air-grown fiber-cell length, but does not appear to affect the length of submerged fiber cells. To produce submerged fiber growth, we found that the optimal age of ovules at induction was 0 DPA, and the optimal medium (with a GA
4293906|Genetic engineering techniques have so far had limited impact in the field of ornamental horticulture. As outlined in this review, transformation systems and potential genes of interest are available. As the development of new, novel varieties is an important driving force in the industry, there are, therefore, good prospects for the development of genetically modified ornamental varieties. The few products in the market to date may simply be a reflection of the relatively small scale of the industry compared to the major food crops, and the wide diversity of species within it. Commercial issues attendant to the use of gene technology in ornamental plants need careful consideration. These include careful choice of crop and background variety, the international regulatory process and freedom to operate.
23326881|Roses are an important commercial crop available in a wide range of varieties in international markets. Due to its economic value, this study aimed to establish a new and reproducible protocol for the in vitro propagation of Rosa damascena Mill. We developed an efficient and cost-effective method for rapid and high-quality shoot multiplication and in vitro rooting of Damask rose using nodal explants. For each stage of the micropropagation procedure (i.e., explant establishment, shoot multiplication and growth, and rooting), different media and combinations of plant growth regulators were utilized. A new culture medium, termed A 19 , resulted in significant improvements to shoot proliferation and root induction for this rose cultivar. For optimal explant establishment, shoot growth, and proliferation, a modified Murashige and Skoog medium with higher levels of nitrates, calcium, and iron plus supplementation with 4 mg/l 6-benzylaminopurine and 0.25 mg/l indole-3-acetic acid was utilized. To increase shoot length, 75 d after culture initiation (including two subcultures), shoots were transferred to the same medium additionally supplemented with 0.2 mg/l gibberellic acid. This resulted in vigorous shoot growth, with longer shoots and a greater number of shoots per explant. Shoots were then separated and transferred to various root induction medium for 30 d. The results clearly showed that a liquid A 19 medium-A (i.e., with half-strength macroelements) supplemented with 0.1 mg/l indole-3-butyric-acid was the most successful medium for in vitro rooting in this cultivar. Shoots were cultured in this medium for 7 d in the dark, before transfer to liquid A 19 medium-A without hormone supplementation under a 16-h photoperiod. This modified protocol resulted in significant improvement in shoot regeneration and proliferation and obtained stronger shoots over a period of about 20 wk.
4293305| Efficient shoot regeneration of sugarcane (Saccharum spp. hybrid cv. CP84-1198) from embryogenic callus cultures has been obtained using thidiazuron (TDZ). Callus was placed on modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 2.3 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), or 9.3 M kinetin and 22.3 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and compared with the same MS medium supplemented with 0.5, 1.0, 2.5, 5.0 or 10.0 M TDZ. All TDZ treatments resulted in faster shoot regeneration than the kinetin/NAA treatment, and more shoot production than either the 2,4-D or kinetin/NAA treatments. Maximum response, as determined by total number of shoots (26 per explant) and number of shoots greater than 1 cm (4 per explant) 4 wk after initiation, was obtained with 1.0 M TDZ. The shoots rooted efficiently on MS medium supplemented with 19.7 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). These results indicate that TDZ effectively stimulates sugarcane plant regeneration from embryogenic callus, and may be suitable to use in genetic transformation studies to enhance regeneration of transgenic plants. 
20065023|The relative ease of producing transgenic plants is an enormous experimental advantage for studies into the organization, function and evolution of plant genes and their expression systems. Transgenes are usually chimeric assemblies of cloned or synthetic DNA from diverse organisms that are introduced into plants. Using current transformation strategies their insertion sites within the plant genome are unpredictable. Although many experimental variables influence the final expression pattern of the transgene, reproducible patterns can often be achieved. Several components that are essential for predictable and efficient transgene expression have been described in the literature. The strategies and options for enhanced control of transgene expression are expanding rapidly; however, knowledge is needed in certain areas, such as the mechanism of transcription and chromatin remodeling, to fully exploit the possibilities. These areas will therefore receive greater attention in this article. The possibilities for biotechnology will grow enormously as new mechanisms for controlling transgene expression in crops species are developed.
4293659| A regeneration system was developed for elite Egyptian maize inbred lines using immature embryos as explants. This system proved to be highly genotype-dependent. Line Gz 643 was identified as the best line, revealing the highest regeneration frequency (42.2%). Addition of L-proline and silver nitrate to culture media greatly enhanced the formation of embryogenic type II callus and the regenerability of some of the tested lines. Transformation of the scutellar tissue of immature embryos from inbred line Gz 643 was performed with the particle delivery system using a single plasmid carrying both the GUS and Bar genes (pAB-6) or by co-transformation with two plasmids, pActl-F (GUS) and pTW-a (Bar). Different transformation parameters were evaluated, i.e. osmotic treatment, acceleration pressure, and number of shots. Osmotic treatment (0.25 M sorbitol + 0.25 M mannitol) along with the use of either acceleration pressure 1300 psi and one shot per plate (for co-transformation with pAB-6) or 1100 psi and two shots per plate (for transformation with pActl-F and pTW-a) gave the best results, as expressed by the number of blue spots in the -glucuronidase (GUS) assay. Stable transformation was confirmed in Ro transformed plants by means of histochemical GUS assay and herbicide application. PCR and Southern blot analysis proved the integration of the full-length genes in some of the transgenics. 
20461601|This study reports the direct regeneration of flower buds from cultured sepal segments of Sinningia speciosa Hiern. Two types of floral bud regeneration were observed: regeneration of floral buds only (designed as
4293338|Thidiazuron (TDZ) is a substituted phenylurea which has been shown to be an efficacious regulator of in vitro morphogenesis of many dicot plant species. However, information regarding the effect of TDZ on in vitro regeneration of monocot species is limited. We investigated the effects of TDZ on in vitro regeneration of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and found that it promoted shoot regeneration from callus in these two important cereal species. Plant regeneration from calluses derived from immature embryo culture of barley and wheat was observed in regeneration media with a wide range of TDZ concentrations (
42568709|A simple and efficient protocol for obtaining organogenesis from mature nodal explants of Citrus macrophylla (alemow) and Citrus aurantium (sour orange) has been developed by optimizing the concentrations of the plant growth regulators, the incubation conditions, the basal medium and by the choice of expiant. In order to optimize the plant growth regulator balance, expiants were cultured in the regeneration medium supplemented with several N - benzyladenine (BA) concentrations or with 2 mgl BA in combination with kinetin (KIN) or l-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The presence of BA was found to be essential for the development of adventitious buds; the best results were obtained using BA at 3 and 2 mg for alemow and sour orange, respectively. The combination of BA with KIN or NAA in the culture medium decreased the regeneration frequency, with respect to the use of BA alone. The effect of three different basal media was rootstock-dependent. For C. macrophylla the best results were obtained with Woody Plant Medium or Driver and Kuniyuki Walnut Medium (DKW). However, for C. aurantium, although high percentages of regenerating expiants were obtained independently of the basal medium used, the highest number of buds per regenerating expiants was obtained with DKW medium. Attempts were made to identify the type of expiants which had a higher regeneration ability using particular regions along the mature shoots of C. macrophylla. When nodal segments, where the buds were completely removed, and internode segments were compared, the highest percentage of responsive expiants was obtained with nodal segments. The existence of a morphogenetic gradient along the shoot was observed and the organogenic efficiency was highest when explants from the apical zone were used. Incubation in darkness for 3 or 4 wk was essential for regeneration process in both rootstocks.
4293130| Interior spruce (Picea glauca engelmannii complex) somatic embryos grown on 48 mol ()-ABA per L over a period of 42 d without transfer underwent precocious germination by 49 d. Those transferred at 28 d to fresh medium with 48 mol ()-ABA continued embryo development until harvested at 56 d; the transfer at 28 d resulted in an increase in embryo lipid content after 42 d. Somatic embryos grown under this condition contained 181.4  41.2, 116.0  42.4, and 91.8  33.6 ng ( +)-ABA per mg of lyophilized tissue at 42, 49, and 56 d, respectively. By comparison, embryos grown without the transfer at 28 d had 86.8  25.4 ng (+)-ABA per mg of lyophilized tissue at 42 d, just prior to precocious germination. After 3 weeks' storage in a drying chamber under high humidity, the (+)-ABA content of 56-d-old transferred embryos decreased to 15.4  4.4 ng (+)-ABA per mg of lyophilized tissue. The increased lipid content resulting from embryo transfer and the reduction in internal (+)-ABA content during storage are factors which will contribute to improved conversion of somatic embryos to plantlets. 
25623028|Until recently, information about the effects of transforming plants with the rolA gene of Agrobacterium rhizogenes has been restricted mainly to dicots in which a severely wrinkled phenotype, reduced internode distances, and abnormal reproductive development were commonly observed. In this work, we analyzed the effects associated with the expression of this gene in a new genetic context: the forage grass genome. Transgenic ${\rm P}_{35{\rm S}}\bullet rolA$ plants of blue grama grass (Bouteloua gracilis) were obtained by a biolistic approach employing embryogenic chlorophyllic cells as the target material. Four independent transgenic lines with regeneration capacity were recovered, which showed stable integration of this transgene as demonstrated by polymerase chain reaction and Southern blot hybridization. Growth of the rolA-transformed lines under greenhouse conditions provided evidence for a new biotechnological application for the rolA gene in plants, namely, the improvement of biomass production in forage grasses. Additionally, we described here a new phenotypic marker (referred to here as the "hairy embryo" syndrome) that can be instrumental for the early identification of transformation events when transforming grasses with this gene.
4292954|An optimum 10-day exposure of petioles of alfalfa [Medicago sativa ssp.falcata (L.) Arcangeli] to 2,4-dichlorophen-oxyacetic acid or 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid results in the semisynchronous production of somatic embryos starting about 4 days after transfer to a non-auxin-containing medium. The timing of cell division induction in the petiole explants was found to vary depending on the petiole tissue type. Cells adjacent to the vascular bundles divide first at about 48 h after exposure to auxin, closely followed by those of the inner parenchyma, whereas most of the cells of the subepidermal and epidermal layers start to divide later, between 72 and 120 h. Two different sources of callus were also evident. Cells adjacent to the vascular bundles and the inner parenchyma cells were the primary source of callus when a short, 2-day (non-embryo-producing) exposure to auxin was used. In contrast, the subepidermal and epidermal cells were the primary source of callus tissue when a longer, 10-day (embryo producing) exposure was used. It is concluded that the source of somatic embryos is primarily the daughter cells of the subepidermal or epidermal tissue or both.
4293662| Shoot tips, of four potato cultivars (Dsire, Genet, Tigoni, and Tomensa), 3-4 mm in size, were precultured for 2d on Murashige and Skoog (MS) solid medium, then encapsulated in calcium alginate to produce hollow bead synthetic seed capsules averaging 0.78 cm in diameter. Regeneration and 'regrowth' were tested on MS solid medium and on soil in the greenhouse, respectively. The encapsulated shoot tips were stored at 4 and 10C for up to 390 d. For all cultivars, the encapsulated shoot tips stored at both temperatures for 180 d and at 4C for 270 d, 100% regeneration on MS solid medium was recorded. After 360 d in storage at 4C, 70.8% (Tigoni), 66.7% (Genet), 58.3% (Dsire), and 51.5% (Tomensa) regeneration was recorded on MS medium, reducing to 15% (Tigoni), 25% (Genet), 10% (Dsire), and 0% (Tomensa) regeneration after 390 d in storage. 'Regrowth' of 93-100% was recorded for non-stored encapsulated shoot tips, directly transferred on soil in the greenhouse after a 2 wk preculture on MS solid medium with an added fungicide (carbendazim) in the encapsulating gel. The 'regrown' shoot tips produced plants showing normal development. The results presented here demonstrate that hollow bead synthetic seed capsules are an alternative propagating method for potato seed production. 
29736164|A method was developed for in vitro regeneration of plants via somatic embryogenesis in Chorispora bungeana, an alpine plant with freeze-tolerance, using cell suspensions initiated from leaf-derived callus. Primary calli were induced from leaves of C. bungeana grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) media supplemented with 4.0 mgl gibberellic acid (GA), 0.2 mgl -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 0.2 mgl 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Suspension culture was initiated by incubating the callus particulates in liquid MS medium supplemented with 1.0 mgl kinetin (KT) and 0.2 mgl NAA. Individual early cotyledonary-stage somatic embryos isolated from cell suspension developed into whole plants on medium containing high levels of sucrose (60 and 90 gl), whereas lower sucrose concentrations (0 and 30 gl) were inhibitory to main root development. On the MS medium with 90 gl sucrose, one regenerated plant exhibited hetero-morphologic leaves, while other plants grown on different media showed a transformation from stem to root.
4293096|Brugmansia Candida hairy roots, obtained by infection with Agrobacterium rhizogenes LBA 9402, exhibit, after subculturing in liquid media, a tendency towards dedifferentiation. It has been found that the following strategies can be applied to inhibit this dedifferentiation and preserve normal root morphology: (a) lowering both the mineral and sucrose concentration in the media employed so as to diminish osmotic stress (a condition to which these roots appear to be particularly susceptible); (b) employing antiauxins in appropriate concentrations; and (c) maintaining the hairy roots on solid media prior to use in production processes in liquid media. The first strategy suggested does not favor alkaloid productivity, but in this case a two-step method could be attempted: biomass with normal root morphology could be obtained in a first stage using low sucrose concentrations, and in a second stage, sucrose could be increased in order to achieve higher productivity. In all the clones of B. Candida obtained, alkaloid production was biased towards scopolamine.
20461625|Dendrobium hybrids have great economic importance in a number of countries. Asymbiotic seed germination and the conventional vegetative method have been commonly used by growers to propagate these plants. To overcome somaclonal variation, which is commonly exhibited by Dendrobium (Nobile group) when micropropagated from protocorm-like bodies, a protocol for propagating Dendrobium Second Love in vitro using axillary buds in the presence of thidiazuron was developed. Random amplified polymorphic DNA analysis was also carried out to check for possible genetic alterations in plants originating from six consecutive subcultures. The results revealed that the established protocol was efficient for the in vitro cloning of this orchid hybrid and the plants obtained from the six subcultures did not exhibit any type of polymorphism.
20461702|The stable insertion and expression of multiple transgenes in crops is highly desirable, as the manipulation of complex agronomic traits and the introduction of novel biosynthetic pathways are dependent upon it. This study was performed to explore the frequency and efficiency of introducing multiple genes in soybean by using somatic embryogenesis and microprojectile bombardment transformation. The co-transformation frequency of six selectable marker or reporter genes (GusA, bleomycin resistance, glufosinate resistance, hygromycin resistance, green fluorescent protein, and kanamycin resistance) were followed throughout the T0, T1, and T2 generations. Three bombardment strategies were compared to determine the best method to generate transgenic plants that express the introduced transgenes and have a simple insertion pattern that would facilitate any downstream breeding. The plasmid bombardment treatments were (1) a six-gene-containing plasmid, (2) an equimolar treatment of five individual plasmids that collectively contained the six transgenes of interest (genes of glufosinate and hygromycin resistance were on the same plasmid), and (3) a 1:9 ratio mixture of the five plasmids, in which the plasmid containing the selectable marker used in the regeneration process, hygromycin resistance, was used in ninefold excess to all the other plasmids. Of the six bombardments performed per plasmid treatment, the results of seven independent events for the six-gene plasmid, four events for the 1:9 treatment, and a single regenerated event for the equimolar treatment indicate that containing all the transgenes on one plasmid just had an advantage in terms of frequency of a successful transformation events. Based on Southern analysis, the only events that contained all six transgenes was the one obtained by the equimolar treatment. No event was obtained that expressed all six transgenes, and certain transgenes seem to be non-randomly lost, namely gusA, bleomycin resistance, and glufosinate resistance, regardless of treatment. The addition of elements to optimize the expression of each gene cassette when multiple genes are in close proximity needs to be further investigated.
4293641|The kinds of data obtained in micropropagation studies are very often problematic, since they do not follow continuous distribution and observations through culture vessels complicate measurement. Accordingly, standard analyses are often used, leading to misinterpretation of results. In this paper, we present a study of Viburnum opulus micropropagation using planned contrasts and fitting regression models in generalized linear models as an alternative statistical analysis of micropropagation results, and compare the results with that of traditional ANOVA. The advantages and possibilities of these alternative data analyses in plant tissue culture are discussed.
4293362|Results from experiments using protoplasts in space, performed on the Biokosmos 9 satellite in 1989 and on the Space Shuttle on the IML-1-mission in 1992 and S/MM-03 in 1996, are presented. This paper focuses on the observation that the regeneration capacity of protoplasts is lower under micro-g conditions than under 1 g conditions. These aspects have been difficult to interpret and raise new questions about the mechanisms behind the observed effects. In an effort to try to find a key element to the poor regeneration capacity, ground-based studies were initiated focusing on the effect of the variable organization and quantity of corticular microtubules (CMTs) as a consequence of short periods of real and simulated weightlessness. The new results demonstrated the capacity of protoplasts to enter division, confirming the findings in space that this was affected by gravity. The percentage of dividing cells significantly decreased as a result of exposure to simulated weightlessness on a 2-D clinostat. Similar observations were made when comparing the wall components, which confirmed that the reconstitution of the cell wall was retarded under both space conditions and simulated weightlessness. The peroxidase activity in protoplasts exposed to microgravity was slightly decreased in both 0 g and 1 g flight samples compared with the ground controls, whereas activity in the protoplasts exposed to simulated weightlessness was similar to activity in the 1 g control. The observation that protoplasts had randomized and more sparse corticular microtubules when exposed to various forms of simulated and real weightlessness on a free-fall machine on the ground could indicate that the low division capacity in 0 g protoplasts was correlated with an abnormal CMT array in these protoplasts. This study has increased our knowledge of the more basic biochemical and cell biological aspects of g effects. This is an important link in preparation for the new space era, when it will be possible to follow the growth of single cells and tissue cultures for generations under microgravity conditions on the new International Space Station, which will be functional on a permanent basis from the year 2003.
20541026|This issue of in vitro plant is dedicated to various aspects of biofuel research and development. The editors have sought the experts in this field and solicited manuscripts for this special issue publication from various academic institutions, government (USDA, DOE), industry (Mendel, Alellyx, Canavilas, Syngenta, Monsanto), and various countries (USA, China, Brazil, India, and Australia). This has resulted in state-of-the-art articles describing ethanol and also biodiesel research. These publications highlight the status of biofuel research across the globe and also focus on private, public, and government interests. This is especially noteworthy in that President Barack Obama has stated that renewable energy is a pivotal aspect of his policy for the USA. The objective of this introduction is to provide the reader with the pertinent background information relative to the biofuel efforts within the private sector, academia, and government laboratories. In particular, the history of biofuel research and commercialization is provided as well as a summary of the various crop systems available for biofuel production.
41318712|Artemisia annua produces a large number of unique terpenoids, making it of particular interest as a source of phytochemicals and a useful model plant for studying terpenoid metabolism. The ability to engineer fast-growing in vitro cultures to produce terpenoids in high yield would be a dramatic step towards commercial use. Two distinct pathways have been characterized in higher plants leading to the biosynthesis of isopentenyl diphosphate, the common precursor to all terpenes: the cytosolic mevalonate pathway and the plastid-localized mevalonate-independent pathway. While transformed roots of A. annua have been demonstrated to be superior to whole plants in terms of yield of the sesquiterpene artemisinin, they appear to lack functional chloroplasts, bringing into question the presence of a functional mevalonateindependent pathway. Using a cDNA library made from these roots, we isolated two clones encoding deoxy-D-xylulose-5-phosphate synthase (DXPS) and deoxy-D-xylulose-5-phosphate reductoisomerase (DXPR). The biochemical function of both enzymes was confirmed by complementing E. coli dxps-and dapr-mutants. Northern blot analysis showed that the transformed root cultures expressed these genes at different levels during the culture cycle. In addition, cultures grown in continuous light showed substantial increases in DXPS transcript levels compared to dark-grown cultures. These results represent an important step towards demonstrating the presence of the plastid-localized terpenoid biosynthetic pathway in these easily engineered in vitro cultures.
20064968|In vitro coculture of plant tissue explants with beneficial microorganisms induces developmental and metabolic changes in the derived plantlets which enhance their tolerance to abiotic and biotic stresses. The induced resistance response caused by the inoculants is referred to as "biotization." There is enough experimental evidence with bacteria (bacterization) and vesicular arbuscular mycorrhiza (mycorrhization) inoculations to recommend utilization of this technology in commercial micropropagation. The paper reviews literature on this topic, outlines other uses and potential uses of in vitro plant-microbial cocultures, and discusses their current constraints.
4292990|Artemisia annua L. is the source of a potent antimalarial, artemisinin. As part of a program to produce artemisinin through tissue culture, a series of 14 multifactorial experiments were conducted to determine suitable conditions for initiating and maintaining friable callus from A. annua. In the first six experiments, three different nutrient formulations [Gamborg B5 (B5), Murashige and Skoog (MS), and Whetmore and Rier (WR)], each with 32 combinations of auxins and cytokinins [2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) with benzyladenine (BA), or 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) with 6-furfurylaminopurine (kinetin)], were tested. Both B5 and WR nutrients supported friable callus formation from leaf explants with some combinations of auxin and cytokinin. Inasmuch as friable callus seemed to be produced over a wider range of auxin and cytokinin concentrations in combination with B5, the remaining experiments were conducted solely with this nutrient formulation. In the remaining eight experiments, it was determined that friable callus formed when combinations of NAA with kinetin or 2,4-D and BA were used with B5 medium. Lighter colored, more friable callus formed in response to 2,4-D and BA than with NAA and kinetin. No single combination of concentrations of auxin and cytokinin seemed to be "ideal" for producing friable callus. Ranges of 2,4-D from 0.5 to 2.0 with BA between 0.025 and 0.1, or NAA between 0.5 and 2.0 with kinetin between 0.5 and 1.0 mg/liter, produced acceptable results.
20541018|An efficient in vitro plant regeneration protocol through somatic embryogenesis and direct shoot organogenesis has been developed for pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum). Efficient plant regeneration is a prerequisite for a complete genetic transformation protocol. Shoot tips, immature inflorescences, and seeds of two genotypes (843B and 7042-DMR) of pearl millet formed callus when cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with varying levels of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D; 4.5, 9, 13.5, and 18 M). The level of 2,4-D, the type of explant, and the genotype significantly effected callus induction. Calli from each of the three explant types developed somatic embryos on MS medium containing 2.22 M 6-benzyladenine (BA) and either 1.13, 2.25, or 4.5 M of 2,4-D. Somatic embryos developed from all three explants and generated shoots on MS medium containing high levels of BA (4.4, 8.8, or 13.2 M) combined with 0.56 M 2,4-D. The calli from the immature inflorescences exhibited the highest percentage of somatic embryogenesis and shoot regeneration. Moreover, these calli yielded the maximum number of differentiated shoots per callus. An efficient and direct shoot organogenesis protocol, without a visible, intervening callus stage, was successfully developed from shoot tip explants of both genotypes of pearl millet. Multiple shoots were induced on MS medium containing either BA or kinetin (4.4, 8.8, 17.6, or 26.4 M). The number of shoots formed per shoot tip was significantly influenced by the level of cytokinin (BA/kinetin) and genotype. Maximum rooting was induced in 1/2 strength MS with 0.8% activated charcoal. The regenerated plants were transferred to soil in pots, where they exhibited normal growth.
41432443|Paphiopedilum species are recalcitrant in tissue culture, and no explant from mature plants has been successfully mass propagated in vitro. This study was aimed at inducing shoots and regenerating plants from the flowering plants of a sequentially flowering Paphiopedilum Deperle and a single floral Paphiopedilum Armeni White. By using cross-sectioned flower buds (FBs), we found that in both species, only sections that contained the base tissue of FBs were able to produce shoots and plants. We have also found that sections of FBs between 1.5 and 3.0 cm from Paphiopedilum Deperle were able to produce shoots, but only sections of FBs > 2.5 cm from Paphiopedilum Armeni White were regenerable. Our microscopic observations revealed that the small bract at the FB base harbored a new miniature FB, which further harbored a primitive FB with dome-shaped meristem-like tissues that presumably led to the plant induction. The reiteration of this pattern resulted in a scorpioid cyme inflorescence architecture in the multifloral Paphiopedilum species, and its failure to reiterate resulted in a single flower. The induction rates were 57-75%, and all plants survived in a greenhouse. This method is potentially applicable for the micropropagation and conservation of slipper orchids.
20064886|Several rose species (Rosa rugosa, R. wichuraiana, R. setigera, R. laevigata, R. banksiae, R. roxburghii, R. odorata) and interspecific hybrids were cultured to determine the appropriate concentrations of nutrients and growth regulators for shoot proliferation and root initiation. Cultured shoot tips and lateral buds from different genotypes proliferated multiple shoots on a basal medium [Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts, vitamins, glycine, sucrose, and agar] supplemented with 0 M to 17.8 M (
4293280| A microculture method for single embryogenic cell clusters was established for several Japanese conifer species, namely Picea jezoensis, Larix leptolepis and Cryptomeria japonica. Individual small, dense cell clusters were identified and picked up by a micromanipulator and cultured in 50 l liquid medium in a 96-well culture plate. In all three species studied, a majority of the cell clusters actively proliferated within the wells. Maturation of somatic embryos was successful when the newly proliferated cell clusters were transferred to solid abscisic acid-containing medium. Thus, the small, dense cell clusters could be a useful morphological marker for cells capable of proliferation and differentiation. 
20064873|The effects of exogenously supplied proline and hydroxyproline on the potato (Solanum tuberosum) varieties L.T.8 and Desiree were studied using axillary bud cultures both in the presence and absence of 0.6% salt stress. In both varieties, the effects of exogenously supplied proline and hydroxyproline at 1.0 mM and 2.5 mM were less severe than 0.6% salt alone. At the same time, the accumulation of proline, protein, carbohydrates, sodium, and potassium were similar. However, when both the salt and proline/hydroxyproline were supplied, proline and hydroxyproline provided some measure of protection against salt stress. It is believed that increased proline levels in L.T.8 and increased carbohydrates in Desiree due to the presence of exogenously supplied proline/hydroxyproline were responsible for the additional protection against salt stress in the axillary bud cultures of these varieties.
4293400|Two procedures were tested for micropropagation of Ilex aquifolium (English holly), one in which shoots proliferated on solid medium and another one using liquid medium. Different growth regulator treatments and supports were analyzed for optimizing in vitro rooting, showing that indolebutyric acid and agar or cellulose plugs gave the best results. The survival percentage of successfully in vitro or ex vitro rooted plants did not differ significantly between the best treatments. However, the efficiency with ex vitro rooting was 80%, while for in vitro rooting, the final efficiency was 64%. The results show that a correct manipulation of Murashige's stage II of micropropagation and eliminating or decreasing stage III are useful tools to reduce the requirements of acclimatization.
4293009|A detailed qualitative and quantitative analysis of the sterol content of normal (auxin and cytokinin requiring) and habituated (auxin and cytokinin independent) sugarbeet callus (Beta vulgaris L. altissima) was made using mass spectrometry with gas chromatography. The total sterol content of the two lines did not differ significantly.
29736209|Genetic improvement of coffee, an important commercial crop, through classical breeding is slow and cumbersome. Biotechnology offers alternative strategies for generating new and improved coffee varieties, including those resistances to environmental extremes, pests, and diseases, low in caffeine, and with uniform fruit maturation. Large improvements in somatic embryogenesis, development of haploids, and scale-up of micropropagation have been accomplished in the last 5 yr. The recent identification of expressed sequence tags (EST) that are differentially expressed during the infestation of coffee plants by coffee leaf miners and the isolation and cloning of the promoter for the N-methyltransferase gene associated with caffeine production open up the possibility of producing varieties of coffee with new traits. This review provides a summary of in vitro biological advances and directions as to how they could be applied to improve the production and quality of coffee.
4293509|Embryogenic tissue from six genotypes of Pinus patula (Schiede et Deppe) was subjected to a number of treatments to improve both somatic embryo maturation and germination protocols. The use of a slightly modified 240 medium supplemented with polyethylene glycol (PEG) significantly improved both the number and quality of embryos produced, especially at the 7.5 and 10% level. Various pre-germination treatments were tested to enhance embryo germination. A partial drying treatment (PDT) at high relative humidity, lasting approximately 4 wk, gave the best germination results. Despite the beneficial effects of the PDT, embryos that had been harvested from the 240 maturation treatment containing no PEG gave the best germination responses when compared to the PEG-treated cultures. Plantlets were acclimatized ex vitrum, but success rates were low. Latent PEG effects were observed in acclimatized somatic seedlings.
25623009|The present investigation envisaged revealing the role of exogenous application of ascorbic acid in increasing resistance against NaCl stress. Shoot apices from 60-d-old, in vitro-grown plants of two commercially important cultivars of Solanum tuberosum L., cvs. Desiree and Cardinal, were inoculated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 0.5 mM ascorbic acid for 72 h as a pretreatment. Pretreated and non-pretreated shoot apices were transferred to MS medium containing different concentrations of NaCl (0-140 mM; eight treatments). Results were recorded for morphological (shoot length, shoot number, root length, root number, and number of nodes) and biochemical features (protein, peroxidase, catalase, and superoxide dismutase activities) after 60 d of salt treatment. Similarly, 60-d-old, well-proliferated callus cultures were also pretreated with ascorbic acid for 24 h and transferred to an optimized callus proliferation medium containing different concentrations of salt. Results were recorded after 60 d of salt treatment for percentage relative fresh weight growth and biochemical parameters. Salinity severely inhibited all the growth parameters in both the cultivars. Pretreatment with ascorbic acid to both salt-treated plants and callus cultures showed significant differences with respect to almost all of the growth and biochemical parameters studied. Protein content as well as catalase and superoxide dismutase activities increased significantly in both the cultivars, although peroxidase activity showed a decreasing trend in ascorbic acid-pretreated plants as well as callus cultures.
4293307|Well-developed somatic embryos were selected from a repetitively somatic embryo line derived from embryonic axes of immature zygotic embryos of English walnut 'No. 120' (Juglans regia L.) for germination and conversion studies. In germinating dishes, somatic embryos germinated into only shoots, only roots, or both shoots and roots. Without any pretreatment, 28% somatic embryos germinated, while those treated with
4293144|An efficient protocol for in vitro propagation of an aromatic and medicinal herb Ocimum basilicum L. (sweet basil) through axillary shoot proliferation from nodal explants, collected from field-grown plants, is described. High frequency bud break and maximum number of axillary shoot formation was induced in the nodal explants on Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium (MS) containing
41496518|Ten accessions belonging to the Brassica oleracea subspecies alba and rubra, and to B. oleracea var. sabauda were used in this study. Protoplasts were isolated from leaves and hypocotyls of in vitro grown plants. The influence of selected factors on the yield, viability, and mitotic activity of protoplasts immobilized in calcium alginate layers was investigated. The efficiency of protoplast isolation from hypocotyls was lower (0.70.1x10 ml) than for protoplasts isolated from leaf mesophyll tissue (20.1 x 10 ml). High (70-90%) viabilities of immobilized protoplasts were recorded, independent of the explant sources. The highest proportion of protoplasts undergoing divisions was noted for cv. Reball F1, both from mesophyll (29.82.2%) and hypocotyl (17.50.3%) tissues. Developed colonies of callus tissue were subjected to regeneration and as a result plants from six accessions were obtained.
4292996|We have previously shown (Flores and Sgrignoli, 1991) that immature embryos of Taxus brevifolia and T. X media are capable of precocious germination and can grow into seedlings in vitro. The cultural and environmental parameters for embryo germination and conversion into seedlings have been optimized and extended to T. baccata and T. cuspidata. A 14-h photoperiod improved embryo germination and growth into seedlings. A pregermination cold treatment of the seeds had a positive effect on both the onset and percentage of germination. Embryos from cold-treated seeds germinated earlier and at a higher frequency than those from control seeds. Boron was necessary for embryo germination, and levels of this micronutrient were established for optimal growth and germination of T. brevifolia and T. X media cv. Hicksii embryos. Gupta and Durzan's medium was superior to White's for embryo germination and root formation. Naphthaleneacetic acid stimulated root formation in embryo-derived seedlings. We also found that immature embryos could be induced to form callus with embryogenic potential. Taxol and related taxanes were detected in embryo-derived seedlings.
40793217|Questions often arise concerning the genetic stability of plant materials stored in liquid nitrogen for long time periods. This study examined the genetic stability of cryopreserved shoot tips of Rubus germplasm that were stored in liquid nitrogen for more than 12 yr, then rewarmed and regrown. We analyzed the genetic stability of Rubus grabowskii, two blackberry cultivars ("Hillemeyer" and 'Silvan'), and one raspberry cultivar ("Mandarin") as in vitro shoots and as field-grown plants. No morphological differences were observed in greenhouse-grown cryopreserved plants when compared to the control mother plants. In the field, cryopreserved plants appeared similar but were more vigorous than mother plants, with larger leaves, fruit, and seeds. Single sequence repeats (SSR) and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analyses were performed on shoots immediately after recovery from cryopreservation and on shoots subculrured for 7 mo before analysis. Ten SSR primers developed from "Marion" and "Meeker" microsatellite-enriched libraries amplified one to 15 aleles per locus, with an average of seven aleles and a total of 70 aleles in the four genotypes tested. No SSR polymorphisms were observed between cryopreserved shoots and the corresponding mother plants regardless of subculture. Although no polymorphisms were detected in shoots analyzed immediately after recovery from cryopres-ervation, AFLP polymorphisms were detected in three of the four Rubus genotypes after they were subculrured for 7 mo. Field-grown plants from the polymorphic shoot tips of R. grabowskii and 'Silvan' displayed the same AFLP fingerprints as their corresponding mother plants. Only longcultured in vitro shoot tips displayed polymorphisms in vitro, and they were no longer detected when the plants were grown ex vitro. The transitory nature of these polymorphisms should be carefully considered when monitoring for genetic stability.
29736194|Somatic embryogenesis from cultures of shoot apices, cotyledon and young leaves of in vitro shoots of Agave vera-cruz Mill. was studied. Embryogenic callus was obtained when explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium (1962) supplemented with L vitamins, 4.52 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or 5.37 M -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA). Somatic embryos differentiated from this embryogenic callus upon subculture to maturation/conversion medium containing cytokinin either alone or with auxin and L-glutamine. The best combination of growth regulators for development of somatic embryos was found to be 5.37 M naphthalene acetic acid plus 0.91 M zeatin and 40 g/l sucrose. The conversion frequency of somatic embryos to plantlets varied from 46-50%. Rooted plantlets were transferred directly to pots containing a soil, sand, and manure mixture without any hardening phase with 96-98% survival of the plantlets. Based on the histological observations, the potential origin of the somatic embryo is discussed.
4293498|The effect of sucrose on in vitro potato (cv. Kennebec) metabolism was evaluated. Plants were grown in three different media: Murashige and Skoog basal medium containing high nitrogen concentration with 0 or
4293834| Turfgrass, like other major crop species, is recalcitrant to manipulation in vitro. To perform efficient genetic transformation of turfgrass, it is necessary to optimize tissue culture conditions. In most reports, plant tissue culture techniques have been applied to propagate a single cultivar or several cultivars in one species of turfgrass. In this experiment, four turfgrass genera were used, namely common bermudagrass, Cynodon dactylon [L.] Pers. (California origin); red fescue, Festuca rubra L. var. rubra 'Shadow'; perennial ryegrass, Lolium perenne L. 'Barbal'; and Kentucky bluegrass, Poa pratensis L. 'Merion.' Mature seeds were surface-sterilized and cultured on basal Murashige and Skoog (MS) media supplemented with 30-250 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) for callus induction. Regeneration media consisted of MS supplemented with 5-10 M 6-benzyladenine (BA). Among the genera, Poa had the highest callus induction percentage (CIP) regardless of 2,4-D concentration, followed by Cynodon, Lolium, and Festuca, respectively. Cynodon and Lolium had the highest callus regeneration percentage (CRP) and overall regeneration rate (ORR). Festuca had a poor CIP, CRP, and ORR compared to other studied genera. Cynodon produced the highest shoot number per explant. Based on the results of the present study, MS medium supplemented with 60 M 2,4-D (for callus induction) and 7.5 M BA (for regeneration) can be used in multi-generic transformation studies with the genera used. 
20065005|A procedure for the regeneration of cacao (Theobroma cacao) plants from staminode explants via somatic embryogenesis was developed. Rapidly growing calli were induced by culturing staminode explants on a DKW salts-based primary callus growth (PCG) medium supplemented with 20 g glucose per L, 9 M 2,4-D, and thidiazuron (TDZ) at various concentrations. Calli were subcultured onto a WPM salts-based secondary callus growth medium supplemented with 20 g glucose per L, 9 M 2,4-D, and 1.4 nM kinetin. Somatic embryos were formed from embryogenic calli following transfer to a hormone-free DKW salts-based embryo development medium containing sucrose. The concentration of TDZ used in PCG medium significantly affected the rate of callus growth, the frequency of embryogenesis, and the number of somatic embryos produced from each responsive explant. A TDZ concentration of 22.7 nM was found to be the optimal concentration for effective induction of somatic embryos from various cacao genotypes. Using this procedure, we recovered somatic embryos from all 19 tested cacao genotypes, representing three major genetic group types. However, among these genotypes, a wide range of variation was observed in both the frequency of embryogenesis, which ranged from 1 to 100%, and the average number of somatic embryos produced from each responsive explant, which ranged from 2 to 46. Two types of somatic embryos were identified on the basis of their visual appearance and growth behavior. A large number of cacao plants have been regenerated from somatic embryos and established in soil in a greenhouse. Plants showed morphological and growth characteristics similar to those of seed-derived plants. The described procedure may allow for the practical use of somatic embryogenesis for clonal propagation of elite cacao clones and other applications that require the production of a large number of plants from limited source materials.
4293755|An elite aspen hybrid (Populus x canescens x P. grandidentata) was transformed with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105 that harbored a binary vector (pBI121) carrying the nptII gene under the nos promoter and tandem rolB-uidA (GUS) genes with the CaMV 35S or heat shock promoter. Among 32 independent kanamycin-resistant plants, 25 plants were confirmed by polymerase chain reaction and Southern blot analyses to contain all three genes, whereas five plants contained only nptII or/and uidA genes and two plants had both the rolB and nptII or uidA genes. Integration of the rolB gene significantly increased rooting ability of hardwood cuttings. Heat shock-rolB-transformed plants rooted at significantly higher percentage than the CaMV 35S-rolB-transformed plants. Heat shock treatment further enhanced rooting of heat shock-rolB-transformed plants. Exposure to exogenous auxin did not significantly increase the rooting percentage of transgenic hardwood cuttings, but increased the number of roots induced. This research shows great potential to improve rooting of hardwood cuttings of difficult-to-root woody plants which are commercially important to the horticultural and forestry industry. The transgenic plants with gain-of-function in hardwood-cutting rooting can facilitate research in the understanding of adventitious rooting from hardwood cuttings of recalcitrant woody plants.
20461604|This study investigated factors affecting the production of somatic embryos in Blighia sapida (ackee). Explants obtained from fully expanded leaves or cotyledons of immature zygotic embryos excised from brown (BSCZE) or green seeds (GSCZE) were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 9, 18 and 36 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 4.4 or 22.1 M benzylaminopurine (BAP) or 0.2-19.9 M thidiazuron (TDZ). Leaf explants grown on media supplemented with the different combinations of 2,4-D and BAP formed callus, but they were non-embryogenic, while explants were not responsive on TDZ-supplemented media. GSCZE explants grown in the presence of 2,4-D/BAP combinations of 9/4.4, 18/4.4 or 36/4.4 M formed non-embryogenic callus profusely, but explants gave rise to organized globular protuberances (GPs) and non-embryogenic callus on media containing TDZ, with the best concentration at 0.4 M. BSCZE explants grown on TDZ-supplemented media also formed callus, but no GPs were detected. When GPs were cultured on media containing TDZ and abscisic acid they (ABA), gave rise to the highest number of somatic embryos. The medium was also beneficial for the development of somatic embryos from the globular to cotyledonary stage.
20064898|The effect of cytokinin on growth and plant regeneration of thalamus-derived calluses of Ranunculus asiaticus L. has been investigated with various concentrations of 6-benzyladenine and 6-furfurylaminopurine (kinetin), in a medium containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid levels, which was decreased to 0 over three subcultures. cytokinins, although not essential for initiating callus production, improved subsequent callus growth and plant regeneration. No somatic embryogenesis was observed on calluses grown on media lacking cytokinins or containing only kinetin. Calluses manifested embryogenesis on media containing 6-benzyladenine plus kinetin or only 6-benzyladenine. Nondifferentiating callus was characterized by a high content of phenolic polymers and an elevated peroxidase and polyphenol oxidase activity in comparison with differentiating callus. Differences in simple phenol concentrations were observed in the two kinds of callus.
41496441|Azadirachtin, a well-known biopesticide, is a secondary metabolite extracted from the seeds o Azadirachta indica. In the present study, azadirachtin was produced in hairy roots of A. indica, generated by Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated transformation of leaf explants. Liquid cultures of A. indica hairy roots were developed with a liquid-to-flask volume ratio of 0.15. The kinetics of growth and azadirachtin production were established in a basal plant growth medium containing MS medium major and minor salts, Gamborg's medium vitamins, and 30 g1 sucrose. The highest azadirachtin accumulation in the hairy roots (up to 3.3 mg g) and azadirachtin production (~ 44 mg 1) was obtained on Day 25 of the growth cycle, with a biomass production of 13.3 g1 dry weight. To enhance the production of azadirachtin, a Plackett-Burman experimental design protocol was used to identify key medium nutrients and concentrations to support high root biomass production and azadirachtin accumulation in hairy roots. The optimal nutrients and concentrations were as follows: 40 g1 sucrose, 0.19 g1 potassium dihydrogen phosphate, 3.1 g1 potassium nitrate, and 0.41 g1 magnesium sulfate. Concentrations were determined by a central composite design protocol and verified in shake-flask cultivation. The optimized medium composition yielded a root biomass production of 14.2 g1 and azadirachtin accumulation of 5.2 mg g which was equivalent to an overall azadirachtin production of 73.84 mg 1 , 68% more than that obtained under non-optimized conditions.
4293443|An efficient plant regeneration system employing cotyledons, hypocotyls, petioles and leaves as explants and characterized by continuous and prolific production of somatic embryos, has been developed with Medicago arborea ssp. arborea. The optimal somatic embryogenic response was obtained using a two-step protocol, where explants were incubated under a 16 h photoperiod for 2 mo. on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxy-acetic acid (2,4-D;
4293677|Germination of soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill] somatic embryos and conversion to whole plants are generally low. This study was conducted to investigate the effects of proliferation, maturation, and desiccation methods on conversion of soybean somatic embryos to plants. Soybean cv. Jack somatic embryos, proliferated on a solid medium containing
42568715|Selection genes are routinely used in plant genetic transformation protocols to ensure the survival of transformed cells by limiting the regeneration of non-transgenic cells. In order to find alternatives to the use of antibiotics as selection agents, we followed a targeted approach utilizing a plant gene, encoding a mutant form of the enzyme acetolactate synthase, to convey resistance to herbicides. The sensitivity of sugarcane callus (Saccharum spp. hybrids, cv. NCo310) to a number of herbicides from the sulfonylurea and imidazolinone classes was tested. Callus growth was most affected by sulfonylurea herbicides, particularly 3.6 g/l chlorsulfuron. Herbicide-resistant transgenic sugarcane plants containing mutant forms of a tobacco acetolactate synthase (als) gene were obtained following biolistic transformation. Post-bombardment, putative transgenic callus was selectively proliferated on MS medium containing 3 mg/1 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 20 g/1 sucrose, 0.5 g/1 casein, and 3.6 g/l chlorsulfuron. Plant regeneration and rooting was done on MS medium lacking 2,4-D under similar selection conditions. Thirty vigorously growing putative transgenic plants were successfully ex v/Yro-acclimatized and established under glasshouse conditions. Glasshouse spraying of putative transgenic plants with 100 mg/1 chlorsulfuron dramatically decreased the amount of non-transgenic plants that had escaped the in vitro selection regime. PCR analysis showed that six surviving plants were a/s-positive and that five of these expressed the mutant als gene. This report is the first to describe a selection system for sugarcane transformation that uses a selectable marker gene of plant origin targeted by a sulfonylurea herbicide.
4293701| The behavior of four coffee (Coffea canephora cv. Robusta) clones was evaluated in this work to define the conditions that would allow somatic embryogenesis to be induced at different seasons of the year. The objective was to have an adaptive methodology for in vitro propagation of these four coffee clones that were selected for their agronomic characteristics. The use of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and Picloram in the culture medium at concentrations between 2.07 and 4.14 M resulted in high-frequency somatic embryogenesis when leaves were collected between April and June for genotype C-R, and between April and July for M-229. Callus from 28 to 35 d of induction showed better results throughout the whole regeneration process, particularly in liquid medium. There was a clear difference in the behavior of the clones evaluated. 
25623023|A 238 mulberry germplasm accession collection from diverse regions maintained under tropical conditions was identified from an ex situ field gene bank. The purpose was to prioritize the in vitro conservation and cryopreservation to develop long-term biodiversity conservation for ensuring sustainable utilization of these valuable resources. Reliable cryo techniques using desiccation and slow freezing of winter-dormant buds were used. Storage potential of bud grafts of different Morus species at - 1.5C for 90 d indicated species-specific variation, and most of the wild species were found sensitive. In vitro regeneration and cryopreservation (-196C) protocols using differentiated bud meristems, like axillary winter-dormant buds, were worked out for a wide range of landraces, wild, and cultivated varieties of Morus. Buds maintained under subtropical location are also amenable for cryopreservation. Successful cryopreservation of winter-dormant buds belonging to Morus indica, Morus alba, Morus latifolia, Morus cathayana, Morus laevigata, Morus nigra, Morus australis, Morus bombycis, Morus sinensis, Morus multicaulis, and Morus rotundiloba was achieved. Among wild species, Morus tiliaefolia and Morus serrata showed moderate recovery after cryopreservation. Survival rates did not alter after 3 yr of cryopreservation. Inter-simple sequence repeat markers were used to ascertain the genetic stability of cryopreserved mulberry germplasm accessions, which showed no difference detected among the plantlets regenerated from frozen apices in comparison to the nonfrozen material.
40663783|Grasses from the genus Miscanthus have several characteristics that make them very favourable crops for efficient, low input, multifunctional and environmentally friendly biomass production. This study is aimed to improve a polyploidisation method to effectively induce polyploids in Miscanthus sinensis and Miscanthus x giganteus. Colchicine was applied for 2, 4 or 7 d in micropropagation systems using inflorescence segments at two different points: during callus induction (313 and 626 M colchicine) and during shoot regeneration from callus (313 M colchicine). Among the tested combinations, the most effective (up to 40%) was the 4-d colchicine treatment of a shoot-forming callus cultured 4 d before the experiment on regeneration medium under light conditions. In vitro colchicine treatment during callus induction and during shoot regeneration from callus resulted in no chimeric polyploids as well as a very low number of albinos (2.5%). Additionally, some combinations using colchicine did not significantly reduce the rates of micropropagation effectiveness. The obtained material is promising for the creation of new high-biomass-yielding forms in the Miscanthus genus. In all genotypes tested, chromosome doubling significantly increased pollen stainability. According to preliminary results, induced tetraploids are fertile and useful in hybrid production. Leaves of polyploid forms of two genotypes demonstrated significantly greater width in comparison to the controls.
24596337|Cryopreservation can be a stable, long-term method of germplasm conservation, but successful application can be challenging for tropical material. To optimize survival and re-growth from cryopreserved tissues derived from protocorm-like bodies (PLBs) of hybrid Cymbidium Twilight Moon 'Day Light', the effects of explant type (intact PLBs, half-PLBs, or PLB longitudinal thin cell layers) and various explant treatments were studied. Encapsulation in alginate beads was essential, and intact PLBs were best for cryopreservation, based on survival and ability to form neo-PLBs and/or percentage re-growth. Osmotic hydration of intact PLBs in 2% sucrose for 24 h increased neo-PLB formation and re-growth, with the best responses seen when PLBs were excised from alginate beads prior to re-growth after cryopreservation. Both non-transgenic and transgenic PLBs were amenable to cryopreservation for up to 1 year using these methods. This optimized protocol will improve the viability of hybrid Cymbidium germplasm after long-term cryopreservation.
4293578|A plant hormone is not, in the classic animal sense, a chemical synthesized in one organ, transported to a second organ to exert a chemical action to control a physiological event. Any phytohormone can be synthesized everywhere and can influence different growth and development processes at different places. The concept of physiological activity under hormonal control cannot be dissociated from changes in concentrations at the site of action, from spatial differences and changes in the tissue's sensitivity to the compound, from its transport and its metabolism, from balances and interactions with the other phytohormones, or in their metabolic relationships, and in their signaling pathways as well. Secondary messengers are also involved. Hormonal involvement in physiological processes can appear through several distinct manifestations (as environmental sensors, homeostatic regulators and spatio-temporal synchronizers, resource allocators, biotime adjusters, etc.), dependent on or integrated with the primary biochemical pathways. The time has also passed for the hypothesized 'specific' developmental hormones, rhizocaline, caulocaline, and florigen: root, stem, and flower formation result from a sequential control of specific events at the right places through a coordinated control by electrical signals, the known phytohormones and nonspecific molecules of primary and secondary metabolism, and involve both cytoplasmic and apoplastic compartments. These contemporary views are examined in this review.
40663781|Hydrogen peroxide (HO), an active oxygen species, is widely generated in many biological systems and mediates various physiological and biochemical processes in plants. In the present study, we present a signaling network involving HO, nitric oxide (NO), calcium (Ca), cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), and the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade during adventitious rooting in mung bean seedlings. Both exogenous HO and the NO donor sodium nitroprussiate were capable of promoting the formation and development of adventitious roots. HO and NO signaling pathways were elicited in parallel in auxin-induced adventitious rooting. Cytosolic Ca was required for adventitious rooting, and Ca served as a downstream component of HO, as well as cGMP or signaling cascades. cGMP and depend on auxin responses in adventitious root signaling processes.
4293704| A micropropagation method for Orthosiphon stamineus, using stem nodal segments, has been developed. The highest number of regenerated shoots was obtained on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 6.7 M benzyladenine with the formation of an average of 6.1 shoots per explant over a period of 4wk. The number of shoots increased with longer culture duration on proliferation medium. Multiple shoots which were maintained on the proliferation medium for 6 wk had the highest proliferation rate. Separation of multiple shoots and culturing in larger flasks significantly promoted the growth and formation of plantlets. All the in vitro plantlets survived when transferred to the field and showed no significant morphological differences from the mother plants. 
4293661|Plantlets of Capsicum annuum L. cv. Sweet Banana regenerated via somatic embryogenesis from immature zygotic embryos were capable of producing flower, fruit, and seed when cultured in small tissue culture containers. In vitro floral buds were first formed on plantlets that grew on plantlet development medium [agar-gelled Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium containing
20541034|The energy in cellulosic biomass largely resides in plant cell walls. Cellulosic biomass is more difficult than starch to break down into sugars because of the presence of lignin and the complex structure of cell walls. Transgenic down-regulation of major lignin genes led to reduced lignin content, increased dry matter degradability, and improved accessibility of cellulases for cellulose degradation. This review provides background information on lignin biosynthesis and focuses on genetic manipulation of lignin genes in important monocot species as well as the dicot potential biofuel crop alfalfa. Reduction of lignin in biofuel crops by genetic engineering is likely one of the most effective ways of reducing costs associated with pretreatment and hydrolysis of cellulosic feedstocks, although some potential fitness issues should also be addressed.
4293500| A protoplast fusion experiment was carried out aiming to obtain somatic hybrid plants of transgenic Nicotiana tabacum (bar) (+) N. rotundifolia (npt II). The bialaphos resistance marker (bar) was introduced into N. tabacum via Agrobacterium tumefaciens using vector pGV1500 carrying the bar gene phosphinothricin acetyltransferase. N. rotundifolia (npt II) was recovered after direct gene transformation of protoplasts by the pGP6 plasmid carrying the npt II gene for neomycin phosphotransferase. Both plasmids possessed 35S CaMV promotors. Hybrid selection was based on dual bialaphoskanamycin resistance. Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis of regenerated plants showed the presence of species-specific bands for both parents, which confirmed their hybrid nature. N. tabacum (bar) (+) N. rotundifolia (npt II) hybrids exhibited a great diversity in morphology. Fertile hybrids which possessed N. tabacum or N. rotundifolia morphology were recovered. Flow cytometric analysis revealed that the N. tabacum- and TV. rotundifolia-like hybrids had nuclear DNA contents near that of N. tabacum (9.40  0.24 pg) or N. rotundifolia (5.29  0.36 pg), respectively, and were highly asymmetric. Other hybrids combined traits from the two species at various levels - N. tabacum habit or branched, similar to N. rotundifolia. Their leaves varied in shape. The flowers of the hybrid plants were of N. tabacum or N. rotundifolia type, or had N. rotundifolia dimensions, pink with N. tabacum corolla or white with curly fused petals. All were self-sterile or male sterile. The nuclear DNA content varied from 8.90  0.30 to 19.57  0.33 pg. The data from the morphological and cytological analysis provided evidence that parental chromosome elimination in the hybrid clones was spontaneous and not species-specific and that diploidization of the tobacco genome might have occurred in some clones during in vitro culture. This reflects the genomic incompatibility between the two species. 
4293779|With the objective of using microtubers for conservation of potato germplasm, the main effects of genotype, abscisic acid (ABA), and sucrose level, and of their interactions on biomass production, microtuberization, microtuber dormancy, and dry matter content, were studied. ABA decreased both microtuber production and microtuber dormancy, whereas higher concentrations (
4293235|To facilitate the development of transgenic grapevines that are resistant to grapevine fanleaf virus (GFLV), grapevine leafroll-associated closterovirus (GLRaV-3) and crown gall diseases, we developed a rapid system for regenerating root-stocks: Couderc 3309, Vitis riparia 'Gloire de Montpellier', Teleki 5C, Millardet et De Grasset 101-14, and 110 Richter via somatic embryogenesis. Embryo culture and grape regeneration were accomplished with four media. Embryogenic calluses from anthers were induced in the initiation medium [MS basic medium containing 20 g sucrose per L, 1.1 mg 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) per L, 0.2 mg
4293863|A protocol for micropropagation of plants via axillary bud proliferation from nodal explants of Terminalia bellirica Roxb. seedlings has been established. Explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium with different concentrations of 6-benzyladenine (BA; 4.4, 8.9, 13.3, 17.8, or
20461648|Agapanthus (Agapanthus praecox ssp. orientalis), a liliaceous perennial, is cultivated as an ornamental plant because of its beautiful, blue-violet to white flowers. We have previously produced transgenic plants containing the -glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene under the control of cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter in an experimental strain of Agapanthus via Agrobacterium-mediated genetic transformation. These transgenic plants have been cultivated for 5 yr after transplantation to pots. In the present study, we carried out morphological characterization, and examination of the ploidy level, pollen fertility and stability of GUS gene expression in 12 transgenic plants derived from five independent lines at the flowering stage. Flow cytometry (FCM) analysis indicated that transgenic plants of four lines kept the diploid level, but those of the remaining one line were tetraploid. For all of the 12 transgenic plants, some morphological variations were observed both in vegetative and floral organs such as decreased number of leaves per inflorescence, smaller leaves, shorter inflorescence stalks, decreased number of florets per inflorescence and smaller florets. Pollen fertility of all the transgenic plants was below 5% as determined by acetocarmine staining. All the 12 transgenic plants showed stable expression of the GUS gene in leaves, roots, tepals, pistils, and stamens, as indicated by histochemical GUS assay, fluorometric GUS assay, and/or real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis. No apparent GUS gene silencing was observed in transgenic agapanthus plants even after 5 yr of cultivation.
20461612|In vitro studies related to somatic embryogenesis and organogenesis were performed in different cultivars of cotton. Gossypium hirsutum cultivars SH-131, LH-900, Hybrid H8, Khandwa-2, and Gossypium arboreum cultivars BD-1, BD-6, Sarvottam, and Jawahar Tapti were screened for their ability to regenerate in vitro. Cotyledonary leaves and hypocotyls were used as explants. Vigorous callusing was observed in G. arboreum cultivars. Globular somatic embryos were formed in BD-1, BD-6, Sarvottam, Jawahar Tapti, SH-131, and LH-900. Heart-shaped and torpedo stages were also observed. Embryos of BD-1 and BD-6 germinated and formed distinct shoot and root poles. 2-Isopentenyladenine (2iP) was effective in the induction of somatic embryos. Hybrid H8 and Khandwa-2 regenerated by directly forming shoots when cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 6-benzyladenine and formed roots on hormone-free MS medium.
42568883|Auxinic herbicides are widely used in agriculture to selectively control broadleaf weeds. Prolonged use of auxinic herbicides has resulted in the evolution of resistance to these herbicides in some biotypes of Brassica kaber (wild mustard), a common weed in agricultural crops. In this study, auxinic herbicide resistance from B. kaber was transferred to Brassica juncea and Brassica rapa, two commercially important Brassica crops, by traditional breeding coupled with in vitro embryo rescue. A high frequency of embryo regeneration and hybrid plant establishment was achieved. Transfer of auxinic herbicide resistance from B. kaber to the hybrids was assessed by whole-plant screening of hybrids with dicamba, a widely used auxinic herbicide. Furthermore, the hybrids were tested for fertility (both pollen and pistil) and their ability to produce backcross progeny. The auxinic herbicide-resistant trait was introgressed into B. juncea by backcross breeding. DNA ploidy of the hybrids as well as of the backcross progeny was estimated by flow cytometry. Creation of auxinic herbicide-resistant Brassica crops by nontransgenic approaches should facilitate effective weed control, encourage less tillage, provide herbicide rotation options, minimize occurrence of herbicide resistance, and increase acceptance of these crops.
20540998|Induction of high-frequency shoot regeneration using nodal segments containing axillary buds from a 1-yr-old mother plants of Cannabis sativa was achieved on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 0.05-5.0 M thidiazuron. The quality and quantity of regenerants were better with thidiazuron (0.5 M thidiazuron) than with benzyladenine or kinetin. Adding 7.0 M of gibberellic acid into a medium containing 0.5 M thidiazuron slightly increased shoot growth. Elongated shoots when transferred to half-strength MS medium supplemented with 500 mg l activated charcoal and 2.5 M indole-3-butyric acid resulted in 95% rooting. The rooted plants were successfully acclimatized in soil. Following acclimatization, growth performance of 4-mo-old in vitro propagated plants was compared with ex vitro vegetatively grown plants of the same age. The photosynthesis and transpiration characteristics were studied under different light levels (0, 500, 1,000, 1,500, or 2,000 mol m s). An increase in photosynthesis was observed with increase in the light intensity up to 1,500 mol m s and then decreased subsequently at higher light levels in both types of plants. However, the increase was more pronounced at lower light intensities below 500 mol m s. Stomatal conductance and transpiration increased with light intensity up to highest level (2000 mol m s) tested. Intercellular CO concentration (
20461623|This work describes an efficient micropropagation protocol of Lippia filifolia. Nodal segments cultivation in MS medium supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine (4.5 M)/-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA; 54 nM) induced multiple shoots (in average 27 shoots per explant). Elongated shoots were rooted with NAA (0.11 M) and they maintained ploidy level of the in vitro produced explants. The basic chromosome number were 2n = 2x = 24. Regenerated rooted shoots were successfully acclimatized under shading house conditions. This is the first report involving the establishment of a protocol for shoot multiplication and rooting for endangered L. filifolia, contributing for germplasm preservation of this species.
4293905|It is well known that glutathione is a ubiquitous and multifunctional compound which is important in maintaining cellular redox homeostasis. The balance between the reduced (GSH) and oxidized (GSSG) forms of this tripeptide plays a fundamental role in basic physiological and metabolic processes in plants. Recently, a remarkable amount of evidence has suggested that the role of glutathione within the plant system extends beyond the basic metabolic functions and that it may ultimately act as a modulator of plant development and morphogenesis. Therefore, it is not surprising that research has begun to focus on using the glutathione redox pair system for improving regeneration of cultured cells. One of the major themes that has emerged from in vitro studies is that GSH promotes cell proliferation, while GSSG promotes organized development. Thus, in vitro manipulation of this redox compound within the culture medium could lead to an enhancement of plant regeneration.
4293852|Guar gum, a galactomannan derived from the endosperms of Cyamopsis tetragonoloba, has been successfully used as a sole gelling agent for plant tissue culture media. Its suitability as a gelling agent was demonstrated by using guar gumgelled media for in vitro seed germination of Linum usitatissimum and Brassica juncea, in vitro axillary shoot proliferation in nodal explants of Crataeva nurvala, rooting of regenerated shoots of the same, in vitro androgenesis in anther cultures of Nicotiana tabacum, and somatic embryogenesis in callus cultures of Calliandra tweedii. The media used for these were gelled with either guar gum (2, 3, or 4%) or agar (0.9%). Guar gum-gelled media, like agar media, supported all these morphogenic responses. Rather, axillary shoot proliferation, rhizogenic and embryogenic responses were better on guar gum-gelled media than on agar media.
20461616|A protocol of somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration from petiole segments of Parthenocissus tricuspidata Planch. has been developed. Embryogenic tissue was induced on B5 (Gamborg) basal medium supplemented with 2.25-9.0 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 500 mg l casein hydrolysate (CH), and 0.1 g l activated charcoal. Somatic embryos were induced on B5 medium containing various concentrations of benzyladenine (BA) (4.44, 6.66, and 8.88 M) and -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) (0, 0.54, and 1.61 M) plus 500 mg l CH. Ninety percent of normal somatic embryos were converted into plantlets directly on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium free of plant growth regulators. Shoots could be induced from abnormal somatic embryos on MS medium containing 4.44 M BA, 0.05 M NAA, and 500 mg l CH. Genotypic differences were found in the process of somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration. Histological analysis confirmed the process of somatic embryogenesis. Regenerated plantlets with well-developed roots were successfully acclimatized in greenhouse and all plants showed normal morphological characteristics.
4293944|Ananas comosus (L.) Merr. var. Smooth Cayenne plants when grown in vitro under different temperature regimes developed as CAM or as C
20461736|This study describes a reliable protocol for callus induction and rapid mass propagation of the ecologically important plant, Zygophyllum xanthoxylon (Bunge) Maxim. The optimum callus induction medium was Murashige and Skoog (MS) supplemented with 4.4 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP) and 2.7 M -naphthalene-acetic acid (NAA), on which the callus induction frequencies from different seedling explants were all 100%. However, seedling-derived callus did not form regenerated shoots. In order to achieve shoot multiplication, shoots were developed from cultured plumules, at an average of 3.1 shoots per explant, and the regenerated shoot tips were further multiplied by subculture. The best shoot multiplication from shoot tips was achieved on MS supplemented with 5.4 M NAA and 22.2 M BAP after 40 d of culture. Seventy-three percent of regenerated shoots formed roots when cultured on MS supplemented with 8.6 M IAA after 4 wk of culture. The plants that acclimatized successfully in sand flourished the following year, with normal morphology and growth characteristics.
4293413|The influence of carbon sources and polyethylene glycol combined with 0.45 and 0.9% (w/v) of gellan gum on the maturation of maritime pine somatic embryos was tested. The effect of the carbon source and polyethylene glycol varied widely between lines. One out of the five lines tested showed a striking response to polyethylene glycol (PEG) treatment; the addition of this osmoticum limited the embryonal-suspensor mass (ESM) proliferation while it enhanced the maturation rate. Conversely, the ESM proliferation was stimulated by PEG in the other lines without subsequent improvement of the maturation rate. The use of a high concentration of gellan gum (0.9%) improved the maturation of the five ESM lines. It was concluded that the most efficient culture medium to recover cotyledonary embryos from all lines is one supplemented with sucrose at 6% (w/v) and gellan gum at 0.9% (w/v) without PEG. The determining factor in the maturation of maritime pine somatic embryos is the genotype and/or the quality of ESM. The possible relationship between maturation performances and ESM morphology, particularly the suspensor organization, is discussed.
4292932| The frequency and quality of embryogenic response from cotyledons of immature zygotic soybean embryos varied with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) concentration in the culture medium. The frequency of variants among progeny of regenerated plants decreased with an increase of 2,4-D concentration. Teratogenic effects on embryo morphology and development were greatest at 22.5 M 2,4-D and decreased with increasing 2,4-D. At the lowest 2,4-D concentration tested, 22.5 M, morphologically abnormal, cotyledonary-stage somatic embryos were produced. Ten percent or less of these embryos converted to plants. Over the nine genotypes tested, 40% of the families derived from plants regenerated under a low 2,4-D concentration manifested heritable variation. In contrast, embryogeny was suppressed at the globular stage by the highest 2,4-D concentration tested, 200 M. Eighty to one-hundred percent of the embryos organized under this latter 2,4-D level converted to plants. Only 3% of the families from the progeny of plants regenerated under a high 2,4-D concentration exhibited heritable variation. 
4293044|Anthocyanin production of two lines of Vitis vinifera cell cultures, i.e., 5.4 and 13.1, which were obtained from the same starting material after 20 and 37 mo. of clonal selection, respectively, was investigated. Cell suspension cultures of lines 5.4 and 13.1 maintained an anthocyanin content of
20461538|Valeriana glechomifolia is an endemic species of southern Brazil, capable of accumulating, in all of its organs, the terpene derivatives known as valepotriates, the presumed sedative components of the roots of pharmaceutically used species of Valeriana. In vitro cultures of the plant were established and the accumulation of acevaltrate, didrovaltrate, and valtrate in callus, cell suspension, and untransformed root cultures was studied. Leaves of in natura plants and roots of micropropagated plantlets were used as the explants for callus induction and root culture establishment, respectively, on Gamborg B5 basal medium supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) alone or with kinetin (KIN). Culture growth and secondary metabolite yields were enhanced with 2,4-D (4.52 M) and KIN (0.93 M). Maximum valepotriate contents, quantified by HPLC, of acevaltrate (ACE) 2.6 mg g DW, valtrate (VAL) 10.2 mg g DW, and didrovaltrate (DID) 2.9 mg g DW were observed in root cultures after 7-8 wk of culture.
4293577|Plant biotechnology - especially in vitro regeneration and cell biology, DNA manipulation and biochemical engineering - is already changing the agricultural scene in three major areas: control of plant growth, protecting plants against biotic stress, and production of specialty foods, biochemicals and pharmaceuticals. Plant biotechnology faces several major challenges in the coming decades: alleviating the hazards of abiotic stress (especially salinity, drought, and extreme temperatures), improving pest control, maintenance and improvement of the environment, improvement of food quality and design of 'specialty food' using biochemical engineering, and production of biomaterials. Two parallel research approaches will most likely exist simultaneously in the near future: the transgenic approach (expression of unique genes and specific promoters and transcription factors), and the non-transgenic approach (genomics-assisted gene discovery, marker-assisted selection, efficient mutations, and clonal agriculture). Drought and salinity are the most serious threats to agriculture and to the environment in many parts of the world. Key molecular factors that are being used for genetic engineering of stress-tolerant plants include: over-expression of specific transcription factors, characterization of dehydrin proteins, over-production of osmoprotectants, expression of water channel proteins and ion transporters, expression and characterization of molecular chaperones, including a novel boiling-stable homo-oligomeric SP1 protein. Although molecular breeding is routine in agriculture, forest-tree species have been left far behind. However, the increasing demand for wood and its products and the reduction of available harvestable forests has recently led to the introduction of several molecular and biotechnological tools into forest-tree research and improvement. Among these are in vitro propagation, the identification of molecular markers, and genetic engineering for specific traits. Achievements today in plant biotechnology have already surpassed all previous expectations. The full realization and impact of the new developments depend not only on continued successful and innovative research and development activities, but also on a favorable regulatory climate and public acceptance. Plant scientists now have a central role in society.
20541017|Filipendula ulmaria (L.) Maxim (meadowsweet) is a medicinal plant that is claimed to have several biological activities, including anti-tumor, anti-carcinogenic, anti-oxidant, anti-coagulant, anti-ulcerogenic, anti-microbial, anti-arthritic, and immunomodulatory properties. This report describes, for the first time, an efficient plant regeneration system for F. ulmaria via adventitious shoot development from leaf, petiole, and root explants cultured on Murashige and Skoog's minimal organics medium containing different concentrations of thidiazuron (TDZ), benzyladenine, and kinetin either alone or in combination with different auxins. Relatively extensive/prolific shoot regeneration was observed in all three explant types with TDZ in combination with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Gibberellic acid (GA), TDZ, and IAA combinations were also tested. The best shoot proliferation was observed among root explants cultured on media supplemented with 0.45 M TDZ+2.85 M IAA+1.44 M GA. Regenerated shoots were transferred to rooting media containing different concentrations of either IAA, indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), naphthalene acetic acid, or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Most shoots developed roots on medium with 2.46 M IBA. Rooted explants were transferred to vermiculite in Magenta containers for a 2-wk acclimatization period and then finally to plastic pots containing potting soil. The plantlets in soil were kept in growth chambers for 2 wk before transferring to greenhouse conditions.
20064973|Proliferation of meristematic clusters of several plants in an inexpensive airlift bioreactor system, consisting of a disposable presterilized light transmittable plastic film vessel is described. The optimal shape, size, and structural function of the disposable plastic bioreactor are based on the bubble column and airlift glass bioreactors. The disposable bioreactors are designed in a conical configuration with a single inoculation and harvest port and multiple use dispensing and mixing accessories. Shearing damage and foaming problems known to exist in bioreactors due to the plant's rigid cell wall and size were greatly reduced in the disposable plastic bioreactors. The disposable bioreactors were used for propagule proliferation and growth, using meristem and bud clusters of potato, fern, banana, and gladiolus. The clusters' biomass increased five-to eightfold over a period of 26-30 d, depending on the species. The clusters were separated mechanically by a chopper made of a grid of knives. The chopped propagules were inoculated to agar medium for further growth and developed into transplantable plants. In the case of gladiolus and potato, corms and tubers developed in a sucrose-elevated storage organ induction medium, respectively, after the initial formation of small shoots. The plantlets and storage organs were transplanted to an acclimation greenhouse and continued to grow with a 95-100% survival, depending on the species. Plant development was followed for a period of 16 wk in fern and 12-14 wk in potato, banana, and gladiolus and normal shoot and leaf growth was observed. The feasibility of large-scale liquid cultures for plant micropropagation is discussed.
29736214|Somatic embryogenesis was achieved from leaves of Agave tequilana Weber cultivar azul utilizing MS medium supplemented with L2 vitamins and the addition of cytokinins: 6-benzylaminopurine (BA), 1-phenyl-3(1,2,3,-thiadiazol-5-yl)urea (TDZ), 6-(--dimethylamino)purine (2ip) and 6-furfurylaminopurine (KIN), combined with the auxin 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Differences among the six genotypes studied with regard to their embryogenic response in culture were found. Embryos produced by genotype S3 under a hormone regime of high cytokinin (44.4 to 66.6 M BA) compared to auxin (4.5 M 2,4-D) contained chlorophyll, whereas those produced when auxin was high compared to cytokinin (9.0 and 13.6 M 2,4-D and 1.3 and 4.0 M BA, respectively) were whitish and morphologically similar to their zygotic counterparts. Somatic embryos matured and germinated after transferring the embryogenic calli to maturation and germination medium without growth regulators and enriched with organic nitrogen. Microscopic observations demonstrated a unicellular origin for production of indirect somatic embryos.
40663788|The aim of this study was to investigate both a mass in vitro propagation system and the -ecdysone content in roots and aerial parts of Pfaffia glomerata and Pfaffia tuberosa. Nodal segments of two genotypes (BRA and JB-UFSM) of P. glomerata, originated from aseptically grown plants, were cultivated on hormone-free Murashige and Skoog medium. For the proliferation of P. tuberosa shoots, nodal segments, originated from aseptically grown plants, were either cultivated on hormone-free Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium or were supplemented with 1.0 M thidiazuron (TDZ); the elongation and rooting of these plants were carried out on MS medium without TDZ. Plantlets of both species were acclimatized and transferred to field conditions. The -ecdysone content in the plants was determined by high performance liquid chromatography. The BRA genotype showed a greater in vitro proliferation rate and -ecdysone content than that of the JB-UFSM genotype. The culture of nodal segments of P. tuberosa on medium with 1.0 M TDZ with subsequent subcultivation of shoots on hormone-free medium was shown to be a suitable method for micropropagation due to the high multiplication rate and good plant development. Both species showed good adaptation to ex vitro conditions. The -ecdysone content in micropropagated P. tuberosa was similar to that found in field-grown plants. For both species, the aerial parts accumulated higher -ecdysone content than roots. These results reveal that micropropagation is a successful, alternative method for rapid plant multiplication of both species of Brazilian ginseng. Furthermore, this study demonstrates that these two species have a potential for cultivation that is associated with high -ecdysone production.
40793223|The present work describes the plant regeneration via somatic embryogenesis in two wild cotton species belonging to G genome: Gossypium nelsonii Fryx and Gossypium australe F Muell. The role of plant hormones and carbohydrates was also evaluated for somatic embryogenesis and somatic embryo development. Normal plants were obtained from G. nelsonii Fryx; abnormal plants and somatic embryos were obtained from G. australe F Muell. The best medium for callus induction for these G genome wild cotton species was MSB 5 supplemented with 0.1 mg L KT and 0.1 mg L 2,4-D. For embryognie callus proliferation, the best medium used was MSB 5 supplemented with 0.2 mg L KT and 0.5 mg L IBA. The medium MSB 5 supplemented with 0.15 mg L KT and 0.5 mg L NAA was used successfully for root initiation and plant growth. In addition, adding CuSO and AgNO in the callus-inducing and proliferation medium resulted in a number of somatic embryos. Glucose and maltose, the carbon sources in somatic culture, were used for callus induction, but maltose worked even better than glucose for proliferation of embryognie callus and development of somatic embryos.
4293742| Baloskion tetraphyllum is a member of the Restionaceae and is an important species for the rehabilitation of disused mine sites and wetland areas, and is also highly prized as a cut flower. Its use for restoration of disturbed land is, however, severely limited, due to very poor propagation success by conventional methods. A study was conducted to evaluate the potential of somatic embryogenesis for the large-scale propagation of this species. A variety of auxins (at different concentrations) were investigated for their efficacy in stimulating somatic embryogenesis. Somatic embryos were successfully induced from excised coleoptiles of B. tetraphyllum on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (1/2MS) medium supplemented with 1 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic (2,4-D). To scale up the production, proliferation of secondary somatic embryos was achieved using primary somatic embryos as the tissue source on 1/2MS + 1 M 2,4-D resulting in a 30-fold increase in somatic embryo numbers. Almost all the somatic embryos developed into plants and were established ex vitro. The other auxins investigated, including p-chlorophenoxyacetic acid, indole-3-acetic acid, -naphthaleneacetic acid, and picloram, were not as effective as 2,4-D. The age of the explant material significantly influenced somatic embryogenesis with white, young coleoptiles (5-7d) producing 50% more somatic embryos than green, more mature (8-14 d) coleoptiles. The protocol developed for B. tetraphyllum has the potential to be commercially viable, with an estimated 22 000 somatic embryos produced from 1 g of plant material. This research may also have a positive impact on the propagation of other important Restionaceae species. 
20461629|Micropropagation is a technique to ensure a constant and uniform source of medicinal plants. In this report, we describe the micropropagation of Lepidium virginicum L. (Brassicaceae), a wild plant used as an antiamoebic in traditional Mexican medicine. In vitro-germinated seeds were cultured in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium to obtain pathogen-free cotyledons, hypocotyls, and apical bud (AB) explants. For induction of morphogenesis, the effect of cytokinins, benzyladenine (BA) and kinetin (KN), combined with auxin, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) was evaluated. The best rate of shoot proliferation was induced 15 d after culture on MS mineral medium supplemented with IAA:KN (0.57:13.94 M) from AB explants. Maximum shoot elongation was achieved without plant growth regulators. The effect of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) (14.76 M) was evaluated for in vitro root induction; 60 d after culture all the shoots had developed roots. All rooted plants were successfully transferred to pots and 100% acclimatized in ex vitro conditions. The methanol extracts from the micropropagated active explants of L. virginicum showed and IC antiprotozoal value between 141.90 and 268.53 g ml.
4293561|An efficient regeneration and transformation system was developed for two elite aspen hybrid clones (Populus canescens x P. grandidentada and P. tremuloides x P. davidiana). Callus was induced from in vitro leaf explants on modified Murashige and Skoog medium (MSA) and woody plant medium (WPM) containing four different combinations of cytokinins and auxins. Callus tissues regenerated into shoots on WPM medium supplemented with
23016595|Seed responses to temperature are often essential to the study of germination ecology, but the ecological role of temperature in orchid seed germination remains uncertain. The response of orchid seeds to cold stratification have been studied, but the exact physiological role remains unclear. No studies exist that compare the effects of either cold stratification or temperature on germination among distant populations of the same species. In two separate experiments, the role of temperature (25, 22/11, 27/15, 29/ 19, 33/24C) and chilling at 10C on in vitro seed germination were investigated using distant populations of Calopogon tuberosus var. tuberosus. Cooler temperatures promoted germination of Michigan seeds; warmer temperatures promoted germination of South Carolina and north central Florida seeds. South Florida seed germination was highest under both warm and cool temperatures. More advanced seedling development generally occurred at higher temperatures with the exception of south Florida seedlings, in which the warmest temperature suppressed development. Fluctuating diurnal temperatures were more beneficial for germination compared to constant temperatures. Cold stratification had a positive effect on germination among all populations, but South Carolina seeds required the longest chilling treatments to obtain maximum germination. Results from the cold stratification experiment indicate that a physiological dormancy is present, but the degree of dormancy varies across the species range. The variable responses among populations may indicate ecotypic differentiation.
25623027|In this study, we have demonstrated that Zoysia japonica callus induced from mature seeds can produce high frequencies of plant regeneration and somatic embryogenesis, even following a prolonged period of subculturing. Initial callus cultures were induced from mature seeds of Japanese lawngrass (Z. japonica Steud.) incubated on a medium contianing major N medium salts, minor Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium salts, and modified MS medium organic elements supplemented with 3 mg L 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 0.01-0.02 mg L 6-benzyladenine. Compact callus were selected and subcultured monthly on a medium containing 2 mg L 2,4-D, 0.5 mg L kinetin, 500 mg L casein hydrolysate, 500 mg L proline, and 500 mg L myoinositol. Callus maintained in vitro for 18 mo could be induced to regenerate plantlets with a frequency of >90%. By contrast, 36-mo-old callus cultures failed to produce normal shoot regeneration. However, the addition of CuSO to the subculture media maintained >90% regeneration frequencies in such long-term callus cultures. Histological observations revealed that plant regeneration occurred both through somatic embryogenesis and organogenesis pathways. The ability to sustainable regeneration in long-term callus cultures will be valuable to the program of genetic transformation and somaclonal variant selection.
29736191|Rapid propagation technology was established and optimized in vitro for Chrysanthemum cinerariifolium (Trev.) Vis., an important botanical insecticide plant with a huge international market. A large number of buds could be induced directly from epicotyl and hypocotyl explants on Murashige T; Skoog F. J. Plant. Physiol. 15: 473-479; (1962) medium [Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium] supplemented with 0.3 mg l benzyladenine (BA) and 0.3 mg l -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Root induction and development could be observed within 15 d after inoculation on 1/2 MS medium supplemented with 0.2 mg l indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and 0.1 mg l rooting powder (ABT). Furthermore, a polyploid breeding study in vitro was reported to obtain superior breeding lines with high yield and good quality. Autotetraploid lines of C. cinerariifolium were obtained by colchicine treatments and identified by root-tip chromosome determination and stoma observation. The chromosome number of the autotetraploid plantlet was 2N=4x=36. Obtained autotetraploid lines will be of important genetic and breeding value and be used for further selection and plant breeding.
20461576|In vitro plantlet regeneration was obtained from cultured cotyledon and young leaf explants of five Indian chile pepper cultivars (Capsicum annuum L. cvs. Gujarat-1, Gujarat-2, Guntur-4, Selection-49, and Jwala). Adventitious shoot buds (ASB) were regenerated directly from cotyledon and young leaf explants in all the five cultivars on media containing benzyladenine (BA) alone or in combination with 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Regeneration frequency was highly influenced by cultivar explant type, media combination and their interactions, except the interaction between cultivar and explant, for number of ASB per explant. Percent contribution of individual source suggested that selection of explant type followed by medium combination and cultivars was essential for obtaining high-frequency ASB induction. Across different cultivars the young leaf explant was found to be the most responsive explant, while Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing BA alone (17.8, 26.6, and 35.5 M) was found to be the best medium for the production of maximum number of ASB. Between the two explants, shoot elongation was observed with ASB obtained from young leaf explants on MS medium containing BA (2.2 and 4.4 M) and gibberellic acid (GA) (1.4, 2.9, 4.3, and 5.8 M). The MS medium fortified with 4.4 M BA + 2.9 M GA was optimum for shoot elongation. Elongated shoots were rooted on liquid MS medium supplemented with 2.9 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and successfully established ex vitro.
4293178|Protoplast-derived, transformed maize plants were evaluated by Southern analysis for the presence of the aph IV gene which codes for resistance to the antibiotic, hygromycin B. This gene was used as a selectable marker for the transformation of maize protoplasts. Southern analysis was performed with fluorescein-labeled probe DNA. A new method for labeling molecular weight markers with
20064802|Many botanic gardens now have tissue culture laboratories for the micropropagation of plants that are difficult to propagate by conventional horticultural techniques. In many cases the work centers on rare and endangered species. Examples of the use of different techniques including micropropagation, in vitro seed germination, dual culture with symbiotic fungi, and regeneration from callus are discussed with reference to their application to plant germplasm conservation.
23255668|An efficient in vitro transformation and plant regeneration protocol was developed for Terminalia bellerica using cotyledonary node cultures. High-frequency shoot bud proliferation was obtained on medium with 6-benzyladenine. Significant improvements in plant regeneration occurred using elevated levels of CuSO 4 and CoCl 2 . Rooting occurred on a half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium containing indole-3-butyric acid. The rooted plants were acclimatized and transferred to field conditions. The genetic fidelity of the regenerated plants was confirmed using randomly amplified polymorphic DNA analysis. An Agrobacterium-mediated genetic transformation protocol was developed for Terminalia by varying several factors which influence T-DNA delivery. Southern blot analysis of regenerated plants confirmed selectable marker gene integration in transgenic plants. This transformation protocol can be utilized for further genetic manipulation of T. bellerica.
4292975|Rapid regeneration of multiple shoots of Paulownia fortunei was obtained from the petiolar ends of leaf expiants from in vitro grown shoots. The optimal shoot-inducing treatment was Murashige-Skoog medium supplemented with
20065029|The 'Carabao' or 'Manila Super' mango (Mangifera indica L.), a virtually neglected fruit before the advent of KNO flower induction in the early 1970s, is now the third leading Philippine export fruit after banana and pineapple. To apply biotechnology for improvement, a reliable embryogenesis and regeneration protocol is required. We have developed a protocol for somatic embryogenesis and plantlet regeneration in mango: eight strains of 'Carabao' and two unidentified varieties, PHL 12384 and PHL 12378. Over 40 batches of nucellar explants from immature fruits (0.75-5.0 cm long) were cultured in vitro from April 1999 to April 2000. Two media were used, MMSE, Mango Medium for Somatic Embryo Induction, Proliferation and Germination and MMPR, Mango Medium for Plantlet Regeneration. These are now routinely used. The protocol is reproducible in 14 other varieties of mango. Shifting the base medium from Gamborg's B5 medium to our own formulation, BP medium (Barba and Patea's formulation) effectively controlled browning. Browning has limited the successful in vitro culture of many woody species including the mango.
4293174|Microalgae are a highly diverse group of unicellular organisms comprising the eukaryotic protists and the prokaryotic cyanobacteria or blue-green algae. The microalgae have a unique environmental status; being virtually ubiquitous in euphotic aquatic niches, they can occupy extreme habitats ranging from tropical coral reefs to the polar regions, and they contribute to half of the globe's photosynthetic activity. Furthermore, they form the basis of the food chain for more than 70% of the world's biomass. Microalgae are a valuable environmental and biotechnological resource, and the aim of this review is to explore the use of in vitro technologies in the conservation and sustainable exploitation of this remarkable group of organisms. The first part of the review evaluates the importance of in vitro methods in the maintenance and conservation of microalgae and describes the central role of culture collections in applied algal research. The second part explores the application of microalgal in vitro technologies, particularly in the context of the aquaculture and biotechnology industries. Emphasis is placed upon the exploitation of economically important algal products including aquaculture feed, biomass production for the health care sector, green fertilizers, pigments, vitamins, antioxidants, and antimicrobial agents. The contribution that microalgae can make to environmental research is also appraised; for example, they have an important role as indicator organisms in environmental impact assessments. Similarly, designated culture collection strains of microalgae are used for ecotoxicity testing. Throughout the review, emphasis is placed on the application of in vitro techniques for the continued advancement of microalgal research. The paper concludes by assessing future perspectives for the novel application of microalgae and their products.
4293586|A procedure has been outlined for plant regeneration of an important medicinal shrub, Holarrhena antidysenterica, through shoot segment-derived callus. Explants used for callus induction were shoot segments derived from 14-d-old axenic plants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
4293884|Effects of genotype and explant orientation on shoot regeneration from cotyledonary explants of tomato were studied using 10 commercially important cultivars. The explant orientation affected shoot regeneration in all the tested genotypes. Cotyledons placed in abaxial (lower surface facing down) orientation consistently produced better shoot regenerative response and produced greater numbers and taller shoots compared to those inoculated in adaxial (upper surface facing down) orientation. Genotypic variation in terms of shoot regeneration response, number of shoots, and shoot height was apparent. Wounding of cotyledonary explants increased shoot regeneration response. However, shoot height was much lower in shoots regenerated from wounded explants compared to those that originated from intact cotyledons. Shoots produced from wounded cotyledons were abnormal in their form and structure.
4293418| An efficient method was established for high-frequency embryogenic callus induction and plant regeneration from 3-, 4-, 5- and 7-d-old coleoptile segments of Indica rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Kasturi). Compact and friable callus developed from the cut ends and also on the entire length of the coleoptile segments cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium (1962) supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D, 4.50-18.0 M), kinetin (2.32 M) and sucrose (3%, w/v). High frequency embryogenic callus induction and somatic embryo development was achieved when embryogenic calluses were transferred to MS medium supplemented with 2.25 M 2,4-D, 2.32 M kinetin, 490 M L-tryptophan and 3% (w/v) sucrose. Plant regeneration was achieved by transferring clumps of embryogenic callus onto MS medium containing 2.85 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), 17.77 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 3% (w/v) sucrose. Histological observations of embryogenic calluses revealed the presence of somatic embryos and also plant regeneration via multiple shoot bud formation. Three-, 4- and 5-d-old coleoptile segments showed a significantly (P < 0.05) higher frequency of plant regeneration and mean number of plantlets per explant in comparison to 7-d-old coleoptile segments. The highest frequency (73.5%) of plant regeneration and mean number of plantlets (11.9  1.0) was obtained from 4-d-old coleoptile segments. Regenerated shoots were rooted on MS basal medium containing 4.92 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and plants were successfully transferred to soil and grown to maturity. 
4293102|Transgenic sorghum plants (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench, cv. SRN39) were obtained by microprojectile-mediated DNA delivery (Bio-Rad PDS 1000/He Biolistic Delivery System) to explants derived from immature inflorescences. Explants were precultured on medium supplemented with 2.5 mg/l (
23326878|Hoffmannseggella cinnabarina has not been found in the wild for the last 70 yr in the State of So Paulo and, therefore, wild populations of this native orchid are thought to be extinct. This investigation studied seed storage at a low temperature, in vitro germination, and seedling development of H. cinnabarina in order to establish an optimized protocol for propagation, and thus assure species conservation. Seeds of different ages were incubated on Knudson C (KC), Murashige and Skoog, and Vacin and Went media with or without 1 M of N 6 -benzyladenine (BA) and exposed to either 12 or 16 h of light (30 molm -2 s -1 at 262C). Seed surface sterilization was deleterious to 3-mo-old seeds and severely reduced the viability of the 4-mo-old seeds. More mature seeds were not affected by the sterilization procedure. In general, the germination of 4-, 5-, 6-, and 7-mo-old seeds increased when BA was added to the culture medium especially under 16 h of light. Germination rates were highest with 8- and 9-mo-old seeds, and application of BA failed to enhance germination rates further. Developmental studies revealed that this cytokinin reduced seed and protocorm mortality rates; however, protocorm development was negatively affected in its presence. Seedling development was more pronounced when KC medium with 16 h of light was used. Long-term seed storage at 4C did not provide promising results. The protocol described in this study proved to be efficient and relevant to in vitro seed germination and initial development of H. cinnabarina, and thus will contribute to conservation of this orchid species.
4293453|The effects of different factors on the control and reversion of hyperhydricity during the in vitro propagation of Prunus armeniaca were studied. Treatments that decreased the hyperhydricity but did not affect micropropagation rates were the use of the bottom cooling system for 1 or 2 wk and agargel as gelling agent in 'Helena', whereas the best results were obtained with the bottom cooling system for 2 wk and the use of 0.8% agar as gelling agent in 'Lorna'. Hyperhydric shoots reverted to normal after keeping them for 3 wk in the bottom cooling system.
20461534|Prolific shoot regeneration was achieved in mungbean Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek from 3-d-old in vitro cotyledonary node and hypocotyl explants from seedlings derived from mature seeds on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with thidiazuron (TDZ) (0.9 M). An initial exposure to TDZ for 20 d and three successive transfers to fresh medium with reduced thidiazuron levels (0.09 M) resulted in the regeneration of 104 shoots/explant from the cotyledon and 30 shoots/explant from the hypocotyl. Thidiazuron-associated abnormalities such as short compact shoots, fasciation and leaf growth in the form of rosettes were observed in shoots regenerated from hypocotyl explants. Both axillary and adventitious shoot formation from the explants were confirmed by histology. Through repetitive cycles of regeneration in the presence of TDZ, the number of shoots that could be obtained from the two explant classes within 80 d was significantly higher than with previous reports in mungbean.
20461554|In vitro seedlings of Lilium  formolongi Hort. cvs. Norikula, RaiZen No. 1, RaiZen No. 3, RaiZen Early, and Bailansa were used to induce callus by variously modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) media, using protocols for flask culture and bioreactor culture. Green embryogenic callus proliferated from roots near the base of bulblets of five varieties on media containing 0.53-5.3 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), and 28 cell lines were obtained by subcultures on the same medium. For flask culture, the fresh weight (FW) of embryogenic cell clumps doubled every 4 wk on MS basal salts supplemented with 0.53 M NAA and 30 g l sucrose. The maximum frequency of somatic embryos that developed into plantlets was 76.67  17% when plated onto solid MS basal medium without plant growth regulators (PGRs). Among the treatments using four types of bioreactors, the best cell growth and regeneration rate (74  0.14%) of somatic embryos was in a modified 2-1 bioreactor. Cells incubated in the other three bioreactors turned brown and died. Histological study revealed that regeneration was by somatic embryogenesis. The regenerants showed normal growth and flowering after 8-9 mo. in the field. A cell line of cv. Norikula has been subcultured in MS basal salts containing 0.53 M NAA every 2 mo. for 6 yr. The cell aggregates became more synchronous and many typical embryogenic cells with dense cytoplasm were observed under a light microscope. The long-term embryogenic cells plated on MS basal medium still gave rise to numerous somatic embryos and converted into plantlets.
20064852|In recent years attempts have been made to supplement traditional breeding for the production of salt-tolerant plants with variability existing in cell culture. The potential causes suggested as an explanation for the limited success of the in vitro approach include: a) lack, or loss during selection, of regeneration capability; b) the development of epigenetically adapted cells; c) lack of correlation between the mechanisms of tolerance operating in cultured cells and mechanisms that operate in cells in the intact plant; and d) multigenicity of salt tolerance. The recent successful production of healthy, fertile, and genetically stable salt-tolerant regenerants from cells obtained from highly morphogenic explants which are selected early in culture (using one-step or short-term strategies) for salt tolerance, together with the demonstration that salt-sensitive plants can become tolerant by mutations in one or few genes, suggest that some of the potential limitations can be overcome and that some of them may not exist at all.
4293511| Bulbs and aerial parts of the Nepalese plant Allium wallichii are widely used for medicinal purposes and as a spice. Due to overharvesting the natural populations of the species have been increasingly reduced and the domestication of the species should be considered. For the purpose of the production of plantlets suitable for field culture, a micropropagation procedure based on multiple shoot culture has been established. Multiplication factors of 4.6 on average were possible on MS medium supplemented with 20 M zeatin. After rooting on MS medium with 10 M indolebutyric acid, plantlets were acclimatized to greenhouse conditions and transferred to the field with good success. 
4293351| Efficient plant regeneration systems via somatic embryogenesis have been developed for Acacia farnesiana and Acacia schaffneri [Leguminosae (Mimosoideae)]. The protocol used in this study consisted of placing immature zygotic embryos of these species in Murashige and Skoog semi-solid basal medium supplemented with 9.05 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 4.65 M kinetin to induce callus. Some parts of the callus were used for direct embryo differentiation and others for establishment of cell suspension cultures. In the first case, somatic embryos were produced on semi-solid differentiation media without growth regulators or with abscisic acid (ABA). The higher number of somatic embryos, 345 and 198 embryos per g callus in A. farnesiana and A. schaffneri, respectively, was obtained in media without growth regulators, but adding ABA increased the percentage of embryos that reached more advanced differentiation stages. The production of somatic embryos was achieved starting from cell suspensions only when these suspensions were plated into the semi-solid differentiation medium. Somatic embryos germinated on medium containing 217 M adenine sulfate with efficiencies of 69% in A. farnesiana and 47% in A. schaffneri. Some somatic embryos that developed into plantlets were acclimatized in the greenhouse, and they grew into normal plants. 
23016700|Scopolia parviflora adventitious roots were metabolically engineered by co-expression of the two gene putrescine N-methyl transferase (PMT) and hyoscyamine-6-hydroxylase (H6H) cDNAs with the aid of Agrobacterium rhizogenes. The transformed roots developed into morphologically distinct S. parviflora PMT1 (SpPMT1), S. parviflora PMT1 (SpPMT2), and S. parviflora H6H (SpH6H) transgenic hairy root lines. Consequent to the introduction of these key enzyme genes, the production of the alkaloids hyoscyamine
20461671|A highly reproducible Agrobacterium-mediated transformation system was developed for the wetland monocot Juncus accuminatus. Three Agrobacterium tumefaciens binary plasmid vectors, LBA4404/pTOK233, EHA105/pCAMBIA1201, and EHA105/pCAMBIA1301 were used. All vectors contained the 35SCaMV promoter driven, intron containing, -glucuronidase (gus), and hygromycin phosphotransferase (hptII) genes within their T-DNA. After 48 h of cocultivation, 21-d-old seedling derived calli were placed on medium containing timentin at 400 mg l, to eliminate the bacteria. Calli were selected on MS medium containing 40 or 80 mg l hygromycin, for 3 mo. Resistant calli were regenerated and rooted on MS medium containing hygromycin, 5 mg l (22.2 M) of 6-benzylamino-purine (BA) and 0.1 mg l (0.54 M) of alphanaphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), respectively. Seventy-one transgenic cell culture lines were obtained and 39 plant lines were established in the greenhouse. All the plants were fertile, phenotypically normal, and set viable seed. Both transient and stable expression of the gus gene were demonstrated by histochemical GUS assays of resistant calli, transgenic leaf, root, inflorescence, seeds, and whole plants. The integration of gus and hptII genes were confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and Southern analysis of both F and F progenies. The integrated genes segregated to the subsequent generation in Mendelian pattern. To our knowledge, this is the first report of the generation of transgenic J. accuminatus plants.
4293866| Yew cell suspension culture is used as an alternative source of paclitaxel, an anti-cancer drug. To optimize the initiation protocol, highly dormant yew seeds were germinated in vitro and the seedlings used to establish callus culture. The best sources of explant for callus initiation and growth were seedling stems and roots, and the most successful medium was modified B5 medium containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and kinetin. Calluses were friable and suitable for establishing cell suspension cultures, which were maintained for over 3 yr. Flow cytometric analysis of nuclear DNA content revealed that 2-yr-old cell suspension cultures consisted predominantly of putative euploid and aneuploid cells coexisting as sub-populations. Additional measurements performed 3 and 7 mo. later revealed further genomic instability, with a tendency towards a higher proportion of cells with elevated nuclear DNA content. In a selected cell line, which showed significant taxane production, the addition of 100 M jasmonic acid strongly enhanced total taxane production and slightly inhibited growth while no effect on nuclear DNA content was noted. 
20540999|Pinus pinaster (Ait.) somatic embryogenesis (SE) has been developed during the last decade, and its application in tree improvement programs is underway. Nevertheless, a few more or less important problems still exist, which have an impact on the efficiency of specific SE stages. One phenomenon, which had been observed in embryogenic tissue (embryonal mass, EM) initiated from immature seed, has been the loss of the ability to produce mature somatic embryos after the tissue had been cultured for several months. In an attempt to get insight into the differences between young cultures of EM (3-mo-old since the first subculture) of P. pinaster that produced mature somatic embryos and the same lines of significantly increased age (18-mo-old, aged EM) that stopped producing mature somatic embryos, we analyzed in both types of materials the levels of endogenous hormones, polyamines, the global DNA methylation, and associated methylation patterns. In addition, we included in the analysis secondary EM induced from mature somatic embryos. The analysis showed that the two tested genotypes displayed inconsistent hormonal and polyamine profiles in EM cultures of a similar phenotype and that it might be difficult to attribute one specific profile to a specific culture phenotype among genotypes. Experiments were also undertaken to determine if the global DNA methylation and/or the resulting methylation pattern could be manipulated by treatment of the cultures with a hypomethylating drug 5-azacytidine (5-azaC). An aged EM was exposed to different concentrations and durations of 5-azaC, and its response in culture was established by fresh mass increases and somatic embryo maturation potential. All of the analyses are new in maritime pine, and thus, they provide the first data on the biochemistry of EM in this species related to embryogenic potential.
4293444|Agar and activated charcoal (AC) are commonly used in tissue culture. However, their deeper actions and functions are largely unknown. This experiment investigated the effect of agar and AC, singly and jointly, on gibberellin (GA) uptake by corn shoots. Corn seeds were germinated on Murashige and Skoog medium (MS). Shoots excised from 1-wk-old seedlings were cultured on liquid (
23016696|Effects of polyamines on the development of embryonal-suspensor masses (ESMs) and the formation of somatic embryos were examined in an effort to improve the frequency of somatic embryogenesis in Picea glehnii. Exogenous spermidine at 100 and 300 M promoted the elongation of suspensors and the formation of somatic embryos. Exogenous putrescine at 100 M increased the number of somatic embryos and decreased the time required for formation of somatic embryos. Thus, exogenous polyamines improved the maturation capacity of ESMs and promoted the formation of somatic embryos in P. glehnii. Light microscopy revealed that ESMs with high maturation capacity consisted of the three following cells: round or oval cells, elongated cells, and protean cells. These components might be related to the capacity for formation of somatic embryos.
4293493| Embryogenic calluses were induced from 73% of Phalaenopsis shoot-tip explants excised from flower stalk buds by culturing for 7 mo. on New Dogashima Medium (NDM) containing 0.5 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), 4.4 M 6-benzylaminopurine and 29.2 mM sucrose. The sucrose concentration was increased to 58.4 mM 4 mo. after initiation of the callus culture. These calluses were successfully subcultured as cell suspension cultures in liquid NDM supplemented with 5.4 M NAA and 58.4 mM sucrose. By simply reducing the sucrose concentration to 29.2 mM, the cells grew into plantlets through a developmental process similar to that of Phalaenopsis seedlings. The occurrence of somaclonal variants was less than 10% in six out of eight genotypes examined. These results suggest that the embryogenic callus and cell suspension culture could be utilized as the materials for micropropagation and breeding of Phalaenopsis orchids. 
4293696| We have developed efficient methods for plant regeneration, via both embryogenesis and organogenesis, of Smooth Cayenne pineapple, Ananas comosus(L.) Merr. Leaf bases and core (stem) sections of in vitro shoots, produced from culture of crown tip meristem, were used as explants for plant regeneration as follows: (1) Leaf base and core section explants cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 41 M 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid (picloram, P) or thidiazuron (T)/P combinations produced embryogenic tissues. Different types of embryogenic tissues (friable emryogenic tissue, embryogenic cell cluster, and chunky embryogenic tissue) have been developed with varying properties in terms of growth rate and state of development. The embryogenic tissues regenerated shoots upon culture on MS medium containing 13 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 1 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) followed by culture on MS medium containing 4 M BA. (2) Crown tip meristems cultured on MS medium containing 13 M BA followed by leaf explants cultured on MS medium with 27 M NAA and 1 M BA produced shoots via direct organogenesis. (3) Explants cultured on MS medium containing 5 M T and 0.5 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) produced nodular globular structures, which produced shoots upon culture on MS medium containing 1 M BA and 1 M gibberellic acid. Shoots obtained from all of the above methods were rooted in half-strength MS medium containing 3 M NAA and 2.5 M IBA. Plants were transferred to the greenhouse or shipped to Costa Rica for field trials. Somatic embryo-derived plants exhibited 21% spininess, and organogenic-derived plants exhibited 5% spininess in the field trials. 
4293914|Dendrobium candidum Wall. Ex Lindl. is an important species used in the formulation of Shih-hu, a Chinese traditional medicine. An efficient protocol for in vitro propagation of D. candidum using the axenic nodal segments of the shoots, originated from the in vitro germinated seedlings, was developed. The seeds from 120-d-old capsules after pollination were first germinated on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with
23016611|Suaeda salsa calluses cultured in darkness for 28 d were transferred to Murashige and Skoog (MS) media containing various growth regulators under white light conditions for 10 d to investigate cell growth, betacyanin accumulation, and expression of dopa-4,5-dioxygenase (DODA). Callus growth was markedly promoted when 0.2 mgL 1 2,4-D and 0.5 mgL 1 6-BA were added to the MS medium. Surprisingly, of the auxins tested, IAA had no effect on betacyanin content, but 2,4-D strongly decreased betacyanin content. Betacyanin content was positively correlated with 6-BA concentrations in the range of 0.1 2.0 mgL 1 . DODA mRNA levels were consistent with the response of betacyanin content to exogenous growth regulators. These results suggest that betacyanin metabolism in S. salsa calluses is regulated under white light conditions by growth regulators through the regulation of genes such as DODA that are involved in betacyanin synthesis.
4293515| A protocol has been developed that leads to the development of complete plantlets of Coleus forskohlii within 35-40 d by culturing stem tip explants in MS medium containing 0.57 M indole-3-acetic acid and 0.46 M kinetin through direct multiplication at the rate of 12.5 shoots per explant. About 100% shoots rooted and micropropagated plants were successfully established in soil after hardening with a high survival rate. The significance of the present micropropagation protocol of C. forskohlii is the formulation of growth regulators which effected very fast multiplication of the plant (time reduced to one-third of the hitherto known methods). 
23016591|The Brazilian biomes (Amazon, Atlantic Forest, Cerrado, Caatinga, Pantanal, and Pampa) comprise one of the highest levels of plant diversity in the world; however, non-sustainable practices, deforestation, and land use have resulted in significant losses and fragmentation of the native forests. These ecosystems are now threatened and protection of their native plants through ex situ conservation is an urgent necessity. Cryopreservation and in vitro conservation are complementary options for securing and protecting Brazil's native plant species because their potential economic value is critically important to develop strategies that will (1) support their sustainable utilization, (2) protect against the over-exploitation of species growing in natural habitats, and (3) conserve the genetic diversity of germplasm from species of different provenances. Biotechnological approaches will help to address future economic and environmental demands placed upon already at-risk species. Conserving seed germplasm ex situ provides an additional safeguard against the risks (e.g., loss due to disease, climate change) of field conservation. Moreover, seed banks and cryobanks permit the long-term conservation of a wider genetic base; this offsets the labor and space intensive costs of conserving in the active growing state. This paper is a compilation of the current status of strategies applied for conserving Brazilian native plant species.
4292978| Carbendazim is the fungitoxic ingredient of different fungicides. In our experiments it was used as a supplement to stage II (multiplication) media for the micropropagation of Cordyline terminalis and Prunus avium. The product can be autoclaved without any loss of activity and there is no degradation of the product over a normal culture period of 32 days. With C. terminalis and P. avium no phytotoxic effect was revealed up to 160 g/ml. For C. terminalis shoot height was reduced and the number of shoots smaller than 15 mm increased significantly. 
20064881|Chile pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) plants were regenerated from cotyledon explants in vitro in four major stages: bud induction, bud enlargement, shoot elongation, and root development. Bud induction medium contained 0.5 mg/L (2.9 M) indole-3-acetic acid and 2 mg/L (8.9 M) N-benzyladenine. Bud enlargement occurred, and an occasional shoot appeared when medium with 2 mg/L (6 M) gibberellic acid, 2 mg/L (8.9 M) N-benzyladenine, and 5 mg/L (29.4 M) silver nitrate was used. Most shoots elongated after placement on a third medium without plant growth regulators or on fresh plates of bud enlargement medium. Incubations were for 2, 2, and 4 weeks, respectively, at 28.5 C and continuous light. Treatment with silver nitrate was necessary for multiple shoot production and elongation to occur in the third culture stage and was most effective when present in the second-stage medium but not in the bud induction medium. Sixteen to 26% of the shoots rooted in medium with 1 mg/L (5.4 M) 1-naphthaleneacetic acid after 1 month. Additional shoots transferred to a second rooting medium with 0.1 or 1.0 mg/L (0.54 or 5.4 M) 1-naphthaleneacetic acid developed roots, increasing the overall rooting efficiency to 70-72%. Most rooted shoots grew well and produced viable seeds when grown in the greenhouse. Other cytokinins tested for plant regeneration were zeatin and thidiazuron. Zeatin induced few shoots and fewer well-developed plants. Thidiazuron induced multiple shoots 4 months after culture began, but many were small and did not elongate further. Phytagar tissue culture grade proved superior to other agars tested, increasing bud induction frequency from 0-33% to 80-93% and eliminating explant hyperhydricity.
42568440|We describe an efficient protocol for callus induction from adult tissues of Prunus persica (L.) Batsch. Three different commercial peach genotypes, Early May, Zise May, and UFO-3, plus three other genotypes from hybrid crosses performed in February 2006, PS108, PS208, and PS708, were used in the study. Thirteen expiant treatments were tested using nine different plant parts. Murashige and Skoog and woody plant medium salts were assayed with several concentrations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), kinetin (KN), and thidiazuron, and two different photoperiods were tested, a 16-h photoperiod or continuous darkness. In terms of the quantitative response, two parameters were assessed: the number of d to callus induction and relative callus growth recorded after 30 d. Woody plant medium supplemented with 2,4-D and KN significantly increased the rates of callus induction in the majority of treatments. And no significant differences among the P. persica genotypes were found. The expiants derived from stem and calyx produced up to 85 and 96% callus induction, respectively. The protocol described here could be used for efficient callus induction in a range of Prunus spp.
29736161|This study reports a protocol for plant regeneration from cultured expalnts of green gram [Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek] via somatic embryogenesis. Somatic embryos were induced from mature cotyledons of var. TAP-7 and Pusa Baisaki when cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium fortifield with different concentrations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid singly or in combination with 2.22-8.88 M N-benzylaminopurine (BAP) or 2.32-9.38 M kinetin. Th type and concentration of auxin and plant genotype influenced the frequency of somatic embryogenesis. NAA was the most effective auxin for somatic embryo induction. The well-developed, cotyledonary shaped embryos of var. TAP-7 germinated into plantlets as a frequency of 56.6% on MS medium supplemented with 1.88 M abscisic acid and 6.66M BAP. Regenerated plants were transferred to soil and grown to maturity with 90% survival. The protocol described here offers a good potenial for genetic improvement using gene transfer techniques and the production of synthetic seeds of V. radiata.
41318715|Spilanthes maurtiana DC, (Compositae), a East African medicinal herb containing pharmaceutically promising secondary metabolites, has successfully been raised in vitro. We have developed a clonal propagation protocol that uses juvenile plants as starting material. The addition of benzylaminopurine (BA) (1.0 M) and naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) (0.1M) to the culture medium resulted in maximum shooting response with minimal callusing. Shoots rooted best in vitro in MS medium supplemented with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA; 0.2 M), and plants that had already developed roots showed better growth, with maximum survival rate, in the greenhouse after an initial hardening.
25623030|Pandanus amaryllifolius Roxb. has been identified as a rich source of principal basmati aroma compound 2 acetyl-1-pyrroline (2AP). An easy and efficient protocol for clonal propagation of P. amaryllifolius Roxb. using lateral buds as an explant has been developed and the in vitro-raised seedlings were used to study the lower epidermal papillae development. The principal aroma compound 2AP along with other aroma compounds are stored in the lower epidermis papillae of leaf. The developmental pattern of these papillae was traced out using scanning electron microscopy. It was observed that stomata act as the site of initiation for development of the papillae followed by their lateral spread across the epidermal cells. During development, the first papillae bulged out as a protrusion of the lower epidermis that further metamorphosed into well-grown papillae. These developments are well-correlated with 2AP contents, in which the in vitro-raised seedlings had less 2AP contents (66.99 ppb) than the mother plant (96.88 ppb).
4293161|A reproducible and effective biolistic method for transforming papaya (Carica papaya L.) was developed with a transformation-regeneration system that targeted a thin layer of embryogenic tissue. The key factors in this protocol included: 1) spreading of young somatic embryo tissue that arose directly from excised immature zygotic embryos, followed by another spreading of the actively growing embryogenic tissue 3 d before biolistic transformation; 2) removal of kanamycin selection from all subsequent steps after kanamycin-resistant clusters were first isolated from induction media containing kanamycin; 3) transfer of embryos with finger-like extensions to maturation medium; and 4) transferring explants from germination to the root development medium only after the explants had elongating root initials, had at least two green true leaves, and were about 0.5 to 1.0 cm tall. A total of 83 transgenic papaya lines expressing the nontranslatable coat protein gene of papaya ringspot virus (PRSV) were obtained from somatic embryo clusters that originated from 63 immature zygotic embryos. The transformation efficiency was very high: 100% of the bombarded plates produced transgenic plants. This also represents an average of 55 transgenic lines per gram fresh weight, or 1.3 transgenic lines per embryo cluster that was spread. We validated this procedure in our laboratory by visiting researchers who did four independent projects to transform seven papaya cultivars with coat protein gene constructs of PRSV strains from four different countries. The method is described in detail and should be useful for the routine transformation and regeneration of papaya.
4293477|Occurrence of somatic embryogenesis in in vitro cultures of Calamus merrillii and Calamus subinermis, two major large-caned rattan species, was scientifically demonstrated for the first time. Tissue responsiveness varied markedly according to the species and the type of primary explants used when initiated on
23016750|The changes in lipid peroxidation and the involvement of the antioxidant system in relation to salt stress tolerance were investigated in the callus of Acanthophyllum glandulosum and Acanthophyllum sordidum. The callus was subjected to NaCl stress (50 200 mM) for 40 d. The callus of A. glandulosum was less sensitive to NaCl stress than that of A. sordidum. Increasing concentrations of NaCl from 50 to 200 mM correlated to increased proline content in A. glandulosum. Total protein content was higher in extracts of A. glandulosum than in extracts of A. sordidum under both control and salinity treatments. Compared with A. sordidum, lipid peroxidation and H2O2 content were lower and the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), guaiacol peroxidase (GPX), ascorbate peroxidase, and glutathione reductase were higher in A. glandulosum under salt stress. Activity staining of antioxidant enzymes separated by native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) revealed that callus of A. sordidum had five Fe-SOD isoforms and one Mn-SOD isoform, all of which were reduced by salinity. In A. glandulosum, two Mn-SOD, three Fe-SOD, and one Cu/ Zn-SOD isoforms were detected. Out of these six SOD isoforms, expression of the Mn-SOD and Fe-SOD isoforms was enhanced at 100 mM and higher NaCl concentrations. Two and six GPX isoforms were detected in A. sordidum and A. glandulosum, respectively. Expression of the single CAT isoform in A. sordidum was preferentially reduced by salinity. In A. glandulosum, the two CAT isoforms showed differential down regulation under NaCl stress, with the CAT2 isoform detected only under control condition. These results suggest that A. glandulosum callus is better protected against salinity-induced oxidative damage by maintaining higher activities of antioxidant enzymes than the callus of A. sordidum.
41496508|Traditional breeding methods based on inbreeding are difficult to implement in the case of Sinapis alba (white mustard) because this plant displays high levels of self-incompatibility. More rapid progress in breeding could be possible if biotechnological methods and in vitro cultures were used. However, white mustard is not readily amenable to biotechnological treatment. Seeds of traditional S. alba cultivars (e.g., Nakielska) are characterized by high levels of glucosinolates and erucic acid. However, a new Polish variety of white mustard (Bamberka) possesses low erucic acid content in the oil. The main goal of the study was elaboration of a plant regeneration system via in vitro culture of hypocotyl and cotyledon expiants from low and high erucic acid-containing white mustard cultivars. In these experiments, a simple system for in vitro regeneration of white mustard was developed, with the aim to promote maximum formation of shoots within a short period of time. Traditional and improved cultivars of S. alba showed comparable capacity for shoot development from hypocotyl-derived and cotyledon-derived expiants. The two types of cultivars were characterized by essentially equivalent shoot regeneration responses, being slightly higher in hypocotyl than the cotyledonary explants. A greater influence on shoot regeneration from hypocotyl expiants was observed on medium supplemented with 4.4 mol 6-benzylaminopurine, 0.57 mol indole-3-acetic acid, and a low concentration of kinetin (4.6 mol). This technique will allow for rapid generation of sufficient plant material for further use in a variety of white mustard breeding projects.
4293682|Temporary immersion bioreactors are an efficient tool for plant mass propagation because they increase multiplication rate and plant quality. Little knowledge is available on the ecosystem and physiological behavior of plantlets when using this new culture technique. In order to evaluate the effects of the conditions on physiological change of pineapple plantlets, a factorial experiment was conducted, where axillary clusters were cultured under two levels of photosynthetic photon flux (PPF):
4293258| The effects of exogenous applications of ascorbic acid on white spruce somatic embryogenesis were examined. Increasing concentrations of ascorbate (1 M to 100 M) in the germination medium enhanced somatic embryo conversion in a linear fashion. At the optimal ascorbate level (100 M) the number of embryos able to undergo normal conversion, i.e., emergence of both root and shoot, increased from 34% (control) to 58%. The effect of ascorbate had a more pronounced effect on shoot growth than on root emergence; and at 100 M ascorbate, the percentage of embryos able to produce new leaf primordia increased from 47% (control) to 79%. Root emergence increased slightly from 64% in the control embryos to 74% in the presence of ascorbic acid. The ascorbate-treated embryos were characterized by an enlarged apical region, presumably due to a larger number of leaf primordia produced, and by dark green leaves. When allowed to grow further, these embryos were able to develop into normal plantlets. 
4293375|Eucalyptus camaldulensis can be micropropagated through so-called meristematic agglomerates (MAs). MAs (4-6 mm diameter) are dense shoot clusters initiated by the outgrowth of numerous successive buds. Their reddish nature is associated with an increase in their endogenous cytokinin level during the exponential phase of growth. A simultaneous decrease in the auxin level favors a high cytokinin/auxin ratio. A low level of polyamines occurs at the time of the lowest level of auxins. Slow hormone release by activated charcoal plays a role in this very prolific organogenesis.
4293891| An efficient system for the regeneration of plants from protoplasts was developed in Alstroemeria. Friable embryogenic callus (FEC) proved to be the best source for protoplast isolation and culture when compared with leaf tissue and compact embryogenic callus. Protoplast isolation was most efficient when FEC was cultured under vacuum for 5 min in an enzyme solution consisting of 4% cellulase, 0.5% Driselase and 0.2% Macerozyme, followed by culture for 12 -16 h in the dark at 24C. Cell wall formation and colony formation were better in a liquid medium than on a semi-solid agarose medium. Micro-calluses were formed after 4 wk of culture. Ninety percent of the micro-calluses developed into FEC after 12 wk of culture on proliferation medium. FEC cultures produced somatic embryos on a regeneration medium and half of these somatic embryos developed shoots. Protoplast-derived plants showed more somaclonal variation than vegetatively propagated control plants. 
20461678|Net photosynthetic rates (
20541015|An efficient system to regenerate shoots on excised leaves of greenhouse-grown wild lowbush blueberry (Vaccinium angustifolium Ait.) was developed in vitro. The effect of thidiazuron (TDZ) on adventitious bud and shoot formation from apical, medial, and basal segments of the leaves was tested. Leaf cultures produced multiple buds and shoots with or without an intermediary callus phase on 2.3-4.5 M TDZ within 6 wk of culture initiation. The greatest shoot regeneration came from young expanding basal leaf segments positioned with the adaxial side touching the culture medium and maintained for 2 wk in darkness. Callus development and shoot regeneration depended not only on the polarity of the explants but also on the genotype of the clone that supplied the explant material. TDZ-initiated cultures were transferred to medium containing 2.3-4.6 M zeatin and produced usable shoots after one additional subculture. Elongated shoots were dipped in 39.4 mM indole-3-butyric acid powder and planted on a peat:perlite soilless medium at a ratio of 3:2 (v/v), which yielded an 80-90% rooting efficiency. The plantlets were acclimatized and eventually established in the greenhouse with 75-85% survival.
4293341|Rapid in vitro propagation of Limonium wrightii (Hance) Ktze. (Plumbaginaceae), an endangered medicinal plant, was achieved by culturing the shoot-tip (primary and lateral), leaf- and inflorescence-node Explants. MS (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) medium supplemented with
20064939|Low molecular weight nitrogenous impurity compounds as well as raffinose are negative quality factors that interfere with efficient processing of sugarbeet (Beta vulgaris L.) for sucrose. In order to identify nutrient media for cell selection of biochemical mutants or transgenics that might have reduced levels of these processing impurities, the ability of 10 endogenous compounds to serve as sole nitrogen or carbon source for suspension plating and subculture callus growth was evaluated. The most productive concentrations of nitrate, ammonium, L-glutamine, L-glutamate, urea, and L-proline as sole nitrogen sources supported plating callus growth at 106, 159, 233, 167, 80, and 52%, respectively, as well as the historical 60 mM mix of nitrate and ammonium in Murashige-Skoog medium. Glycine betaine and choline did not support growth. D(+) Raffinose and D(+) galactose supported plating callus growth only 67 and 25%, respectively, as well as sucrose as sole carbohydrate source. No callus growth occurred on glutamine, glutamate, or glycine betaine as the sole carbon or carbon plus nitrogen source. Platings on either nitrate or ammonium as sole nitrogen source did not differ in sensitivity to the nitrate uptake inhibitor phenylglyoxal, suggesting that phenylglyoxal lacks the specificity for use in selection for mutants of nitrate uptake. The ability of raffinose to be used as the carbon source, and glutamine or glutamate as the nitrogen source, may preclude their use for selection of genetic variants accumulating less of these processing impurities. However, mutants or transgenics able to utilize either glutamine, glutamate, or glycine betaine might be selectable on media containing any one of these as carbon, nitrogen, or carbon plus nitrogen source, respectively, that is incapable of supporting wild-type cell growth.
20541035|The use and production of biofuels has risen dramatically in recent yr. Bioethanol comprises 85% of total global biofuels production, with benefits including reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and promotion of energy independence and rural economic development. Ethanol is primarily made from corn grain in the USA and sugarcane juice in Brazil. However, ethanol production using current technologies will ultimately be limited by land availability, government policy, and alternative uses for these agricultural products. Biomass feedstocks are an enormous and renewable source of fermentable sugars that could potentially provide a significant proportion of transport fuels globally. A major technical challenge in making cellulosic ethanol economically viable is the need to lower the costs of the enzymes needed to convert biomass to fermentable sugars. The expression of cellulases and hemicellulases in crop plants and their integration with existing ethanol production systems are key technologies under development that will significantly improve the process economics of cellulosic ethanol production.
23016609|Somatic embryogenesis was developed as a method of mass propagation for Lepidosperma drummondii (Cyperaceae), a difficult to propagate but important species for post-mining restoration in a region of high plant biodiversity, in the southwest of Western Australia. Cultures were initiated from excised zygotic embryos, shoot cultures to rhizomes. Only zygotic embryos of L. drummondii developed somatic embryos, with half strength Murashige and Skoog basal medium (BM) and 1 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) being the most effective combination. The first culture cycle yielded a mean of 30 somatic embryos per excised zygotic embryo forming an embryo cluster. After a further 6 wk in culture (on fresh BM with 1 M 2,4-D), approximately 350 somatic embryos per starting embryo cluster were recorded. Following regular sub-culturing of primary somatic embryo clusters onto fresh media (every 4 wk), more than 74,000 secondary somatic embryos were estimated to have been produced after eight subculture periods. This translates to between 1,000 and 2,000 somatic embryos produced from an estimated 45 mg of starting tissue per culture plate or potentially 22,000044,000 somatic embryos per gram of tissue. This is a significant improvement over all previous methods used to propagate L. drummondii, in which typical in vitro shoot multiplication rates are as low as 1.43 per 8 wk. This also compared favourably with published data and concurrent experiments undertaken in this study (as an extra control measure) on somatic embryo production for a related species Baloskion tetraphyllum (using the same BM with 1 M 2,4-D and coleoptile segments as explants). Various media combinations were investigated for efficacy in converting somatic embryos into plants with best results ranging from 86% to 100% conversion for B. tetraphyllum on BM without plant growth regulators. Development of L. drummondii somatic embryos into plants was not observed on BM without plant growth regulators. However, a best result of 39% conversion to plants was observed on BM with 1 M thidiazuron. This is the first report of successful development of somatic embryogenesis and conversion of somatic embryos into plants using thidiazuron for the Australian cyperale L. drummondii.
24596342|To improve root growth and production of bioactive compounds such as anthraquinones (AQ), phenolics, and flavonoids by adventitious root cultures of Morinda citrifolia, the effects of aeration rate, inoculum density, and Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium salt strengths were investigated using a balloon-type bubble bioreactor. The possible mechanisms underlying changes in activities of enzymic (superoxide dismutase, catalase, guaiacol peroxidase, ascorbate peroxidase) and nonenzymic (vitamin E) antioxidants, phenylalanine ammonia lyase, and stress levels (accumulation of hydrogen peroxide and proline, peroxidation of lipids) were also studied. Low aeration rate (0.05 vvm [air volume/culture volume/min]) accelerated accumulation of root fresh weight and dry weight (DW). High aeration rates (0.1 to 0.3 vvm) stimulated accumulation of AQ, phenolics, and flavonoids and reduced root growth. Low inoculum densities (5 and 10 g l) increased accumulation of those metabolites but inhibited root growth. Culture of adventitious roots with high concentrations of MS salts (1 and 1.5  MS) resulted in induction of oxidative stress that strongly inhibited root growth. Overall, an aeration rate of 0.05 vvm, 15 g l inoculum density, and half-strength (0.5) MS medium were optimal for enhancing accumulation of root dry biomass (4.38 g l), AQ (103.08 mg g DW), phenolics (54.81 mg g DW), and flavonoids (49.27 mg g DW).
29736177|Hardwood forests and plantations are an important economic resource for the forest products industry worldwide and to the international trade of lumber and logs. Hardwood trees are also planted for ecological reasons, for example, wildlife habitat, native woodland restoration, and riparian buffers. The demand for quality hardwood from tree plantations will continue to rise as the worldwide consumption of forest products increases. Tree improvement of temperate hardwoods has lagged behind that of coniferous species and hardwoods of the genera Populus and Eucalyptus. The development of marker systems has become an almost necessary complement to the classical breeding and improvement of hardwood tree populations for superior growth, form, and timber characteristics. Molecular markers are especially valuable for determining the reproductive biology and population structure of natural forests and plantations, and the identity of genes affecting quantitative traits. Clonal reproduction of commercially important hardwood tree species provides improved planting stock for use in progeny testing and production forestry. Development of in vitro and conventional vegetative propagation methods allows mass production of clones of mature, elite genotypes or genetically improved genotypes. Genetic modification of hardwood tree species could potentially produce trees with herbicide tolerance, disease and pest resistance, improved wood quality, and reproductive manipulations for commercial plantations. This review concentrates on recent advances in conventional breeding and selection, molecular marker application, in vitro culture, and genetic transformation, and discusses the future challenges and opportunities for valuable temperate (or "fine") hardwood tree improvement.
40793157|Glycyrrhizin is an important phytoconstituent of licorice which is widely used in the pharmaceutical and food industry. As the roots and leaves of Abrus precatorius also contain glycyrrhizin, it can be used as an alternative source of glycyrrhizin. In spite of extensive research work undertaken with cultures of Glycyrrhiza glabra, the glycyrrhizin production remains elusive. Successful production of glycyrrhizin in cell cultures of A. precatorius is being reported for the first time in our study. Cell cultures of A. precatorius L. were treated with the elicitors prepared from the fungi (Aspergillus niger and Rhizopus stolonifer), yeast extract, salicylic acid, ascorbic acid, and eugenol to induce and enhance the synthesis of glycyrrhizin. In the present study, an integrated yield enhancement strategy, developed by the addition of selected elicitor (A. niger and ascorbic acid) at optimized concentrations, resulted in 24.6 g/1 dry cell weight biomass and 53.62 mg/1 glycyrrhizin, which was 5.22 times higher in productivity in comparison to control cultures.
20064833|The levels of the water-soluble reductants ascorbic acid and glutathione and the activities of the enzymatic antioxidants superoxide dismutase, catalase, ascorbate peroxidase, monodehydroascorbate and dehydroascorbate reductases and glutathione reductase were determined in a fully habituated nonorganogenic sugarbeet callus line (considered a neoplasm) compared with a normal hormone-dependent callus of the same plant. Ascorbic acid was not recovered from either of the two calluses, irrespective of the technique used. Glutathione was titrated at a slightly higher level in the normal callus. Catalase activity was almost nonexistent in the habituated callus. The other enzymes (superoxide dismutase, glutathione reductase, monodehydroascorbate reductase, dehydroascorbate reductase, and ascorbate peroxidase) were found to have higher activities in the habituated callus. The results are interpreted as a higher protection of the neoplastic habituated cells against oxygen-free radicals and hydroperoxide-dependent oxidations. Such strong scavenging properties of the habituated cell line could explain previous results already reported, namely the stimulation of cell division at the expense of cell differentiation.
4293065|Leptines are natural glycoalkaloids found only in certain selections of the wild potato species Solarium chacoense. These rare glycoalkaloids have been identified to be phytochemical defensive agents against insect herbivores such as the Colorado potato beetle (CPB). In an attempt to introduce this CPB resistance into the cultivated potato S. tuberosum, interspecific somatic hybrid plants were developed between a dihaploid of S. tuberosum and a high leptine-producing germplasm selection of S. chacoense. The somatic hybrid was fused using protoplast electrofusion and regeneration techniques. Selection of interspecies fusion cell lines was based on hybrid vigor in protoplast-callus (p-callus) growth, on shoot regeneration from p-calli, and on characteristic appearance of anthocyanin pigment. This selection system was highly efficient and 12 of 13 fully regenerated plants were identified as somatic interspecies hybrids, as determined by the analyses of morphologic biochemical, and isozyme markers. In vitro insect bioassays demonstrated that the hybrids averaged a threefold reduction in leaf consumption by the CPB when compared to cultivated potatoes.
20540985|We have optimized conditions for efficient regeneration of the vegetatively propagated zoysia grass (Zoysia matrella L. Merr) cultivar "Konhee". Two explants, young inflorescences, and stem nodes, were used and they displayed different responses to combinations and concentrations of plant growth regulators in callusing, embryogenic callus formation, and regeneration. The highest callus initiation rate from young inflorescences was obtained on medium supplemented with 4.5 to 9.0 M 2,4-dicholorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4-D) and 0.44 M 6-benzyl amino purine (BA). When the BA concentration was lowered to 0.044 M, the highest percent embryogenic callus induction from young inflorescences was achieved. The highest callus initiation rate from stem nodes was obtained, when young inflorescences were cultured on MS medium supplemented with 4.5 to 9.0 M 2,4-D, 0.44 M BA, and 0.037 M abscisic acid (ABA). But embryogenic callus formation from the stem node was highest in the presence of 4.5 to 9.0 M 2,4-D, 0.044 M BA, and 0.037 M ABA. Addition of ABA significantly increased embryogenic callus formation from stem nodes, but not from young inflorescences. Regeneration percentage was variable in response to BA level, and inclusion of -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) and gibberellic acid (GA) further increased the regeneration percentage. The highest regeneration percentages obtained from the young inflorescences and stem nodes were 82% and 67%, respectively. This is the first report showing that plants can be regenerated from young inflorescences and stem nodes of vegetatively propagated zoysia grass.
4293770|Over the past 20 years, DNA-based biotechnologies have been applied to agricultural production and many crops with new and useful attributes have been cultivated in various countries. The adoption of this new technology by farmers has been swift, and benefits in terms of increased production per unit land and environmental benefits are becoming obvious. In forestry, the application of biotechnology is somewhat lagging behind and to date there are no commercial plantations with genetically modified trees. However, most tree species used in plantation forestry have been genetically transformed, and results demonstrate the successful and correct expression of new genes in these plants. At the same time, this new technology is being viewed with concern, very similar to the concerns voiced over the use of genetic engineering in agriculture. This paper discusses some of the issues involved for world forestry, with particular focus on future demand for timber and timber products and how modern biotechnology can contribute to meet the growing demand. Tree genetic engineering techniques will be outlined, and results reviewed for a number of species. Concerns over the use of this new technology will be described and analyzed in relation to scientific considerations.
4293714|An efficient regeneration protocol has been developed from leaf explants of Pluchea lanceolata, a medicinally important plant of the family Asteraceae. Nodular callus was initiated from young leaf segments cultured on Wood and Braun medium containing 2.0% sucrose (WB) supplemented with kinetin. On
4293545|The effect of long-term in vitro shoot culture on somatic embryogenesis in quince BA 29 was investigated. Three experiments were performed on leaves explanted at about 8-mo. intervals from the same culture stock and maintained under different light qualities. Embryo production was assessed either in terms of percentage of embryogenic leaves or number of embryos per leaf. By appropriate data processing both these responses were linearly related to photoequilibrium in each experiment. Statistical comparisons among the three experiments showed significant differences both in mean (computed over light qualities) and line slope values. In particular, with increasing shoot culture age, both percentage of embryogenic leaves and number of embryos per leaf progressively increased, while mean slope values decreased. The increase in mean values suggests a positive effect on somatic embryogenesis due to possible tissue rejuvenation when mother cultures were cultivated in vitro for longer periods. Slope decrease over time indicated the interactions between age of the in vitro culture and photoequilibrium. Thus, embryo production at different culture ages was consistently found to be highest at high photoequilibrium values; in contrast, if a low level of phytochrome was activated, embryogenesis in the youngest cultures was low or absent, but increased with the progressive tissue rejuvenation arising from long-term in vitro culture.
4293723|The influence of light quality on competence and determination for organogenesis was investigated using lettuce cotyledon explants. Lettuce seedlings from four genotypes were germinated in the dark or under white, red, or blue light. Cotyledon explants were excised and cultured on a shoot-inducing medium for 28 d under white light. Germination in the dark reduced shoot numbers, suggesting that light improves the competence of explants for organogenesis. When explants from seedlings germinated under white light were cultured under different light qualities, blue was found to inhibit shoot production while red light either promoted production or had no effect on shoot number compared to controls. Treatment with blue plus red light failed to overcome the inhibition by blue light. To ascertain the temporal responses of explants to light quality, they were cultured under red or blue light prior to transfer to the alternate treatment. Exposure to blue light within 7 d of excision permanently reduced explant competence for organogenesis. Exposure after this time had a minimal effect. These results suggest that both phytochrome and cryptochrome can regulate shoot production from lettuce cotyledon explants and blue light can only inhibit organogenesis, in lettuce, during a relatively small developmental window.
4293549| A method for adventitious shoot induction from petiole explants of Heracleum candicans is reported. Shoot buds were induced on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 4.4 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 1.1 M 2,4-dichlorophen-oxyacetic acid (2,4-D). A wound response in the presence of BA and 2,4-D at the time of culture was necessary for inducing shoot buds. The shoot bud regeneration was significantly influenced by size, type and orientation of explants on the culture medium. These shoot buds developed into 4-5 cm shoots upon transfer to a medium containing 1.1 M BA and 0.5 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The regenerated shoots formed rooted plantlets on MS medium supplemented with 4.9 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). About 15 plants were established in the field for further evaluation. 
4293599|Sodium chloride-tolerant plantlets of Dendrocalamus strictus were regenerated successfully from NaCl-tolerant embryogenic callus via somatic embryogenesis. The selection of embryogenic callus tolerant to 100 mM NaCl was made by exposing the callus to increasing (0-200 mM) concentrations of NaCl in Murashige and Skoog medium having 3% (w/v) sucrose, 0.8% (w/v) agar,
42568873|Bamboo varieties are very difficult to improve by traditional breeding methods. Here, we established an efficient plant-regeneration system for Dendrocalamus latiflorus (tropical giant bamboo) by anther culture. Culture conditions, especially the plant growth regulators required for callus induction and shoot differentiation, were optimized by orthogonal design. M8 medium supplemented with 5.37 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), 1.33 MN-benzyladenine (BA), 110.17 M phenylacetic acid (PAA), and a pretreatment time of 3 d produced the highest rate (5.08  0.61%) of callus induction. The maximum shoot differentiation rate reached 28.3  4.29% in M8 medium supplemented with 2.32 M kinetin (KT), 8.89 M BA, 1.08 M NAA, and 110.17 M PAA. The results of the ploidy level test showed that most of the regenerated plants were dodecaploid (96/100), a few were hexaploid (3/100), and one was triploid (1/100). The average chlorophyll content of dodecaploid lines was significantly higher than that of hexaploid lines. The present study provides an innovative method for bamboo ploidy breeding and a useful method for genetic improvement.
20461550|This study was carried out to evaluate the effects of purine synthesis inhibitor mizoribine, purine and pyrimidine synthesis inhibitors azaserine and acivicin, and surfactant Silwet L-77 on Agrobacterium-mediated transformation efficiency of embryogenic calluses from maize elite inbred lines Qi 319 and Ye 515. After transformation and three rounds of selection on 2.8 M chlorsulfuron, resistant calluses were obtained subsequently, and morphologically normal plantlets were regenerated from 80 to 90% of the resistant calluses treated with the compounds. There were no obvious discrepancies between the frequencies of plantlet regeneration and the ratio of PCR positive plantlets of calluses treated with different compounds. Results of PCR assay with primers for betA showed that 40.2% (103/256) of the regenerated plantlets were positive. The percentage of resistant calluses was 2-3-fold higher than the control after being treated with 0.19-0.27 mM mizoribine. The most suitable concentration of azaserin was 0.36 mM, which gave a 4-fold increase in the percentage of resistant calluses. Acivicin at 0.28-0.84 mM yielded a 3-5-fold increase in the percentage of resistant calluses, which is significantly better than the control. When the calluses were treated with 0.01 or 0.02% Silwet L-77, the percentages of resistant calluses were 34.89 and 25.60%, respectively. We concluded that purine synthesis inhibitors, purine and pyrimidine synthesis inhibitor and the surfactant Silwet L-77 at optimal concentrations significantly improved the Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of maize calluses.
20461620|An efficient seed germination system was developed for an endemic and endangered orchid of the prairies of Bogot, Colombia. The effects of three culture media [Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts (1962); Knudson C (KC) salts (1946); and Hydro-Coljap salts], activated charcoal [0 and 0.5% (w/v)], -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA; 0.0, 2.68 and 5.37 M), and four light regimes (white light, darkness, red light, and far-red light) on asymbiotic germination of Odontoglossum gloriosum, were studied. The best germination percentage and germination time was obtained on agar-solidified medium supplemented with Hydro-Coljap salts and 2.68 M NAA under red light with a 16-h photoperiod. The addition of activated charcoal did not stimulate either germination or the development of O. gloriosum seedlings. This study describes a single medium-based protocol able to achieve more than 330 000 seedlings within 40 wk, starting from a single capsule. This protocol is sufficient for both large-scale propagation and in vitro conservation of this threatened orchid.
20461544|To pursue the causal factors of ploidy variation in tissue culture of asparagus (Asparagus officinalis L.), ploidy status of stem explants and the calluses induced from these explants were examined using flow cytometry (FCM). The frequency of higher ploidy (&gt;8C) cells in the stem explants increased with increasing distance from the shoot apex. Calluses derived from sections far from the apex also showed higher ploidy distributions, and also higher ploidy (16C) in general than was observed in the explant tissue. Detailed studies using FCM and charge-coupled device (CCD)-equipped fluorescence microscopy showed that 16C cells appeared in the explant tissues within 1 wk of culture, possibly induced by the plant growth regulators (PGRs), especially 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), in the culture medium.
4293080| A tissue culture method was developed for the eradication of three important potato viruses, PVX, PVY, and PVS, from the Russet Norkotah variety and two of its strains (TXNS 112 and TXNS 278). The method combined the use of liquid medium, thermotherapy, and chemotherapy. Initially, virus-free plants were inoculated with PVX, PVY, and PVS and, after 10 d, tested quantitatively for virus titer by ELISA to determine the initial virus concentration. The apical tip and the roots were removed from the inoculated plants, and only stem sections from inoculated plants were cultured in liquid medium containing MS inorganic salts, vitamins, and ribavirin (40 M or 80 M). After 5 d, half of the plants were subjected to thermotherapy and half were kept at room temperature. At 6 wk, the uppermost node (5-7 mm) was removed and recultured, and plants were tested then and again after 6 wk using ELISA to identify the virus-free plants. Ribavirin alone eradicated the viruses from some plants; however, more virus-free plants were obtained when the treatments included heat. Additionally, the in vitro culture technique using liquid medium promoted rapid lateral shoot elongation and resulted in significantly faster plant production. Also this approach, which required less skilled labor, produced more plants than the meristem culture method for virus eradication. A detailed procedure for elimination of multiple viruses is described. This procedure resulted in production of more than 10% virus-free plants. 
4293820| An efficient and rapid micropropagation system was developed for a food and medicinally important endangered shrub, Decalepis hamiltonii ('swallow root'), through shoot multiplication. The influence of 2.5-7.5 M isopentenyladenine (2iP), 4.4-17.7 M 6-benzyladenine, 2.3-4.7 M kinetin, 2.8-6.8 M thidiazuron, and 2.3-11.4 M zeatin alone and in combination with 0.3-0.9 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) on in vitro multiple shoot production was studied. The maximum number of multiple shoots (6.5  0.4) was induced from shoot tips cultured on agar-based Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 4.9 M 2iP. But, both zeatin (9.1 M) and kinetin (4.7 M) in combination with IAA (0.6 M) were able to produce a maximum of 5.0  0.4 and 5.1  0.4 multiple shoots, respectively. Further elongation of shoots and adventitious shoot formation was obtained on medium containing 2.5 M 2iP and 0.3 M gibberellic acid. Elongated shoots were separated and rooted on MS medium supplemented with 9.8 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and various phenolic compounds within 5-6wk. Phloroglucinol and salicylic acid interaction with IBA stimulated in vitro rooting of shoots. Successful field transfer was achieved in rooted plantlets. 
4293163|Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek, popularly known as mungdaal in India, is an important source of protein for supplementing the vegetarian diet in all the states of India. There are various varieties of mungbean. Depending upon the flavor and aroma, these are classified into two groups: (a) the good aromatic variety or Sonamung, and (b) the other, without any significant aroma, the Tilmung. In the present investigation, we attempted to propagate a good aromatic variety of mungbean (which is becoming nearly extinct) by in vitro shoot-tip multiplication. The best hormone combination in B5 medium was 0.2 mg of
4292938|Habituated sugarbeet callus and cell suspension cultures derived therefrom, compared to hormone-dependent normal cultures, exhibit a shorter linear growth phase, although they divide actively. Microscopic observations indicate deficiencies in cell expansion and absence of cell differentiation. Cell expansion apparently is interrupted by a cell "budding" process. Some of the cells seem to be empty due to ballooning out of the protoplasm and the bursting of the cell membrane by defective cell wall development. A low amount of cellulose was confirmed by microspectrophotometric estimation. Such cultures exhibit all the characteristics of vitrified tissue.
4293585|While the in vitro clonal propagation of peat mosses (Sphagnaceae) in bioreactors has been established since the late 1980s, it has never been possible to regenerate Sphagnum species from isolated protoplasts, which is a key step towards the production of closely defined genetically modified clones. The present study describes an efficient protocol for protoplast isolation and regeneration of Sphagnum fallax. Protoplast survival rates of over 50% and regeneration rates of up to 20% were achieved by using excised capitulum buds as starting material and by co-cultivating Sphagnum protoplasts with protoplasts from a chlorophyll-deficient Solanum hybrid clone. Besides the effects of nutrient components and differential osmotic readjustment of the regenerant cell clusters, the interference of unique Sphagnum phenolics, sphagnum acid and hydroxybutenolide, with protoplast isolation efficiency is demonstrated.
4293112|Dogwood anthracnose, caused by the fungus Discuta destructiva Redlin, is a severe disease of flowering dogwood (Cornus florida L.) and Pacific dogwood (C. nuttallii Aud.). Disease control is inadequate in nurseries and landscapes and absent in the forest, and resistant cultivars are not commercially available. The ability to select tissues insensitive to culture filtrates from D. destructiva in vitro offers a novel and important approach for the selection of dogwood genotypes that are resistant to or tolerant of this devastating fungus. Embryo-derived dogwood callus cultures were established on Murashige and Skoog medium amended with benzyladenine (BA) and either 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or naphthalene-acetic acid (NAA). Selection for insensitivity to D. destructiva metabolites was done by placement of individual cultures on media amended with progressively higher concentrations of a partially purified culture filtrate (PPCF) containing low-molecular-weight compounds. Following this selection process, cultures were challenged in a dose-response format with PPCF to determine whether the sensitivity of the callus to the culture filtrate had changed. During the selection period, the fresh weight of callus grown on medium containing 2,4-D and amended with PPCF was always less than that of callus grown on medium amended with the same concentration of potato-dextrose broth (PDB, negative control). Fresh weight of callus was greater on medium containing NAA amended with PPCF than on medium with the same concentration of PDB. Callus selected in the presence of NAA showed decreased sensitivity to toxic metabolites at higher concentrations of culture filtrate. The in vitro system described may assist in the identification of disease-resistant germplasm important to the long-term survival of flowering dogwood.
4293448|Young leaf segments from plants growing both in vivo and in vitro were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with auxins [naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D)], cytokinins [kinetin (KN) and
4293799|Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers were used to verify the clonal fidelity of two micropropagated Drosera species, D. anglica and D. binata, which were regenerated by adventitious budding from leaf explants and shoot tips, respectively. Twenty arbitrary decamers were used to screen 15 randomly selected plantlets of each species. No genetic variation was detected among D. binata regenerants, whereas a 0.08% polymorphism frequency was estimated for D. anglica plantlets. These results indicate that the regeneration of plants through shoot-tip culture is a low-risk method for generating genetic variability, whereas material regenerated through leaf explants requires further verification.
4293911|A protocol was developed for high frequency somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration from cotyledon and hypocotyl explants of Eruca sativa. Explants grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
20064987|Pinus radiata is the most important softwood plantation species in Australia and New Zealand. The importance of this species in forestry has led to an increasing demand to improve the efficiency of selection time of the production population, which currently takes 13 yr by traditional methods. With the application of molecular biology techniques such as random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) the selection period can be reduced to 6 yr. In this study, the conditions for RAPD were optimized and the feasibility of this marker system was investigated with different families of Pinus radiata from Tasmania and South Australia. Best concentrations of Taq-polymerase (1 U), magnesium chloride (2 mM), and template DNA (20 ng) were selected to test different polymerase chain reaction (PCR) thermocycler profiles. Devey's et al. (1996) program was the most effective for production of clear RAPD bands. Best conditions were investigated to screen 10-12 bp arbitrary Bresatec and Operon primers. Both types were found useful at detecting genetic variation between families. Seventy percent and thirty percent of the selected Bresatec and Operon primers, respectively, produced polymorphic bands.
41496442|Asparagus racemosus is an important monocot medicinal plant that is in great demand for its steroidal saponins called shatavarins. This study was initiated to optimize the conditions for production of shatavarins in cell cultures of A. racemosus in a modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with six different combinations of growth regulators. Biomass accumulation was correlated with saponin production over a 30-d culture cycle. Biomass and saponin accumulation patterns were dependent on combinations of growth regulators and the pH of the medium. Maximum levels of saponin and biomass accumulation were recorded on day 25 of the culture cycle within a pH range of 3.4 to 5.6. Total saponin produced by the in vitro cultures was 20-fold higher than amounts produced by cultivated plants. Saponin accumulation was not a biomass-associated phenomenon; cultures which showed the highest biomass accumulation were not the highest saponin accumulators. Maximum biomass (28.30  0.29 g1) and maximum levels of shatavarin IV (11.48  0.61 mg g) accumulation was found using a medium containing 2.0 mg 1 2,4-D, 2 g1 casein hydrolysate and 0.005% pectinase. The highest levels of sarsapogenin, secreted and intracellular (4.02  0.09 mg g), accumulated using a medium containing 1.0 mg 1 NAA, 1.0 mg 1 2,4-D, 0.5 mg 1 BAP, 2 g1 casein hydrolysate and 0.005% pectinase, after 25 d. Shatavarins were secreted into the medium and can be isolated easily for further purification.
4293862|Somatic embryo (bipolar) or shoot (monopolar) morphogenesis in mesophyll cells of Euphorbia nivulia Buch.-Ham in vitro was dependent on the type of auxin supplementing Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing benzyladenine. Direct in vitro morphogenesis, i.e., organogenesis, and somatic embryogenesis were significantly influenced by seasonal growth of the donor plant, explant position (proximal, mid, and distal), and light. Explants collected in March/April were superior to July/August material. Proximal explants underwent morphogenesis more readily than mid- and tip-derived explants. Incubation in the light favored morphogenesis while darkness was inhibitory. Kinetin (Kn) was also inhibitory to morphogenesis. MS medium enriched with different levels of
20461701|Browning and necrosis of transformed cells/tissues, and difficulty to regenerate transgenic plants from the transformed cells/tissues (recalcitrance) are common in Agrobacterium-mediated transformation process in many plant species. In addition, most crop transformation methods that use NPTII selection produce a significant number of nontransgenic shoots, called "shoot escapes" even under stringent selection conditions. These common problems of plant transformation, (browning and necrosis of transformed cells/tissues, recalcitrance, and the occurrence of shoot escapes) severely reduces transformation efficiency. Recent research indicates that reactive oxygen species (ROS) such as superoxide radical ( $\text{O}_{2}^{-}$ ), the hydrogen peroxide (HO), the hydroxyl radical (OH), and the peroxyl radical (RO) may be playing an important role in tissue browning and necrosis during transformation. This review examines the role of ROS in in vitro recalcitrance and genetic transformation and the opportunities to improve transformation efficiency using antioxidants.
20064982|Yellowish compact callus, induced from cowpea hypocotyls on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (1962) containing 0.2 mg/l(0.93 M) kinetin and 0.4 mg/l (1.81 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), was subcultured on MS medium containing cytokinin alone, auxin alone, or auxins plus cytokinins in order to determine the effect of cytokinins on root organogenesis in callus cultures. The callus actively proliferated on the same medium but did not show any organogenic activity macroscopically as well as microscopically. On medium with N-benzyladenine (BA) and 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), the yellowish compact callus first changed to pale green compact callus and then many green spots appeared on its surface under light culture. But the yellowish compact callus remained yellowish and white spots appeared on its surface in dark culture. These spots gradually became white nodular structures. Adventitious root formation from the nodular structures occurred not only on the same medium, but also on medium with either auxin or cytokinin but not both. Yellowish compact callus on medium with auxin alone was transformed to yellowish friable callus, which did not develop adventitious roots. The yellowish friable callus could gain rhizogenic activity only after morphological modification to pale green compact callus on medium with auxin plus cytokinin. The modified callus did not form adventitious roots on medium with auxins but only with cytokinins. Therefore, it is suggested that cytokinins have stimulating effects on root formation from callus that previously did not show rhizogenic activity on medium with auxins alone. In addition, the rhizogenic potential of cowpea callus was discriminated from that of leaf explants, which formed adventitious roots directly on medium with auxin alone.
20064964|Two stocks of shoots growing in vitro, obtained from either seedlings or adult plants, were used to study the effects of material origin, the number of previous subcultures on the establishment medium, the explant type, and the macronutrients on shoot multiplication and elongation in Myrtus communis L., always in the presence of 4.4 M benzyladenine (BA). Shoot proliferation was influenced mainly by stock origin, with higher responses from the adult material than from the seedling material, and by the number of subcultures, with the largest rates of multiplication and elongation in the first subculture. In the first subculture, the adult material was characterized by high rates of shoot multiplication and shoot elongation, and some shoots were hyperhydric. On the other hand, in the first subculture the seedling material was characterized by lower rates of shoot multiplication and elongation, and some shoots were affected by apical necrosis. In the third and the fifth subcultures, shoot multiplication and elongation declined in both materials, and hyperhydricity or apical necrosis were never found, although higher multiplication and elongation were consistently found for the adult material. The influence of the studied sources of variation is discussed in relation to shoot multiplication and elongation.
4293119| Callus was initiated from in vitro-grown plants of Gladiolus cultivars 'Jenny Lee' and 'Florida Flame.' The age of callus used for regeneration of plants was either 9 mo. old or 8 yr old from 'Jenny Lee,' and 4 mo. old from 'Florida Flame.' Regeneration medium consisted of Murashige and Skoog's basal salts medium supplemented with 2.0 mg/1 (9.3 M) kinetin. This medium was supplemented with various concentrations of either bialaphos (Meiji Seika, Tokyo, Japan) or phosphin-othricin (Hoechst-Roussell, Frankfurt, Germany). Bialaphos was more effective than phosphinothricin at stimulating plant regeneration. Plants regenerated from 8-yr-old callus of 'Jenny Lee' only when the regeneration medium was supplemented with 0.10 mg/1 bialaphos. A bialaphos concentration of 0.01 mg/1 stimulated regeneration from 9-mo.-old callus of cultivar 'Jenny Lee' and 4-mo.-old callus of 'Florida Flame.' 
4293883|Leaf segments of the orchid sp. Phalaenopsis 'Little Steve' were used as explants testing the effects of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D; 0.45, 2.26,
4293634|An in vitro propagation protocol has been developed using nodal explants from a mature 'elite' tree of Acacia sinuata. Tissue browning was circumvented by soaking surface-disinfected explants in a solution of antioxidant (
4293652|An improved protocol for shoot regeneration from hypocotyl segments of seedlings from open-pollinated seeds of lingonberry (Vaccinium vitis-idaea L.) cultivars, 'Ida', 'Splendor', and 'Erntesegen', and a native clone from Newfoundland was developed. The effect of thidiazuron (TDZ) on adventitious bud and shoot formation from apical, central, and basal segments of the hypocotyl was tested. Highly regenerative callus was obtained from hypocotyl segments on modified Murashige and Skoog (MMS) medium containing
20065020|Plant morphogenesis in vitro can be achieved via two pathways, somatic embryogenesis or organogenesis. Relationships between the culture medium and explant leading to morphogenesis are complex and, despite extensive study, remain poorly understood. Primarily the composition and ratio of plant growth regulators are manipulated to optimize the quality and numbers of embryos or organs initiated. However, many species and varieties do not respond to this classical approach and require further optimization by the variation of other chemical or physical factors. Mineral nutrients form a significant component of culture media but are often overlooked as possible morphogenic elicitors. The combination of minerals for a particular plant species and developmental pathway are usually determined by the empirical manipulation of one or a combination of existing published formulations. Often only one medium type is used for the duration of culture even though this formulation may not be optimal for the different stages of explant growth and development. Furthermore, mineral studies have often focused on growth rather than morphogenesis with very little known of the relationships between mineral uptake and morphogenesis. This article examines the present knowledge of the main effects that mineral nutrients have on plant morphogenesis in vitro. In particular, the dynamics of nitrogen, phosphorus, and calcium supply during development are discussed.
4292933|Larix occidentalis Nutt. can be micropropagated using whole excised mature embryos. The basal medium for induction (over 70% response) was half-strength Quoirin and LePoivre salts with Schenk and Hildebrandt organics and
40793221|During the process of lateral organ development after plant decapitation, cell division and differentiation occur in a balanced manner initiated by specific signaling, which triggers the reentrance into the cell cycle. Here, we investigated short-term variations in the content of some endogenous signals, such as auxin, cytokinins (Cks), and other mitogenic stimuli (sucrose and glutamate), which are likely correlated with the cell cycle reactivation in the axillary bud primordium of pineapple nodal segments. Transcript levels of cell cycle-associated genes, CycD2; 1, and histone H2A were analyzed. Nodal segments containing the quiescent axillary meristem cells were cultivated in vitro during 24 h after the apex removal and de-rooting. From the moment of stem apex and root removal, decapitated nodal segment (DNS) expiants showed a lower indol-3-acetic acid (IAA) concentration than control expiants, and soon after, an increase of endogenous sucrose and iP-type Cks were detected. The decrease of IAA may be the primary signal for cell cycle control early in Gl phase, leading to the upregulation of CycD2; 1 gene in the first h. Later, the iP-type Cks and sucrose could have triggered the progression to S-phase since there was an increase in H2A expression at the eighth h. DNS expiants revealed substantial increase in Z-type Cks and glutamate from the 12th h, suggesting that these mitogens could also operate in promoting pineapple cell cycle progression. We emphasize that the use of non-synchronized tissue rather than synchronous cell suspension culture makes it more difficult to interpret the results of a dynamic cell division process. However, pineapple nodal segments cultivated in vitro may serve as an interesting model to shed light on apical dominance release and the reentrance of quiescent axillary meristem cells into the cell cycle.
23016592|This paper highlights recent advances and improved scientific understanding of conservation technologies through selected case studies on threatened plant species indigenous to Eastern Australia. This includes investigations into seed desiccation, storage responses and cryopreservation in rainforest species, particularly the socio-economically important Australian native Citrus spp., Davidsonia spp. (Davidson's plum) and Syzygium spp. This work also (1) increases our understanding of ecological correlates of seed desiccation sensitivity for predictive use and (2) improves restoration practice through better understanding of seed storage and germination requirements. The use of in vitro conservation technologies in support of conservation actions for endangered species is outlined in case studies on Wollemia nobilis (Wollemi pine), epiphytic and terrestrial orchid species, and an endangered fern species.
29736216|In vitro regeneration through somatic embryogenesis as well as organogenesis using cotyledon of a woody medicinal legume, Cassia angustifolia is reported. The cotyledons dissected from semi-mature seeds, if inoculated on Murashige and Skoog's medium (MS) supplemented with auxin alone or in combination with cytokinin, produced direct and indirect somatic embryos. A maximum of 14.362.26 somatic embryos per 20 mg of explants including callus were produced in 70% cultures on MS medium with 2.5 M benzyladenine (BA) + 10 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Although the percentage of embryogenic cultures was higher (83.33%) at 10 M 2,4-D + 1 M BA, the average number of somatic embryos was much less (7.60.85) at this level, whereas at 2.5 M BA and 5 M 2,4-D, there was a simultaneous formation of both somatic embryos and shoots. The somatic embryos, although started germinating on the same medium, developed into full plantlets only if transferred to MS basal with 2% sucrose. Cytokinins alone did not induce somatic embryogenesis, but formed multiple shoots. Five micromolar BA proved optimum for recurrently inducing shoots in the competent callus with a maximum average of 12.042.10 shoots and shoot length of 2.260.03 cm. Nearly 91.6% shoots (2-2.5 cm in size) organized an average of 5.120.58 roots on half strength MS + 10 M indole-3-butyric acid. All the plantlets have been transferred successfully to soil. Types of auxin and its interaction with cytokinin significantly influenced somatic embryogenesis.
20064830|This study compares the development of shoot apical meristems of white spruce somatic and zygotic embryos during germination. In mature somatic embryos, the functional part of the shoot apical meristem was bi-layered. After partial drying, a normal shoot meristem was formed from these two cell layers during germination. Other cells within the meristem were vacuolated and separated by intercellular air spaces. In the absence of the partial drying treatment, somatic embryos enlarged in size primarily due to vacuolation of cells and the formation of large intercellular air spaces. A majority of these somatic embryos failed to form a functional shoot apical meristem. Compared with somatic embryos, the shoot apical meristem of a mature zygotic embryo was well organized with a densely cytoplasmic apical layer. The cells within the meristem were tightly packed. Judging from the cell profiles during germination, all cells within the meristem of the zygotic embryo took part in the formation of the vegetative shoot apical meristem.
20461669|Trehalose, a nonreducing disaccharide of glucose, is one of the most effective osmoprotectants. Several strategies leading to its accumulation have been envisaged in both model and crop plants using genes of bacterial, yeast and, more recently, plant origin. Significant levels of trehalose accumulation have been shown to cause abiotic stress tolerance in transgenic plants. In this review, we describe the most biologically relevant features of trehalose: chemical and biological properties; occurrence and metabolism in organisms with special reference to plants; protective role in stabilizing molecules; physiological role in plants with special reference to carbohydrate metabolism. The emphasis of this review, however, will be on manipulation of trehalose metabolism to improve abiotic stress tolerance in plants.
20461717|Callus selection (CS) and the flamingo-bill explant (FB) methods were evaluated for efficacy in transformation for celery. Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains EHA105 and GV3101, each with the bar gene under the promoters NOS (pGPTV-BAR) or 35S (pDHB321.1), were used. Leaf explants were inoculated and co-cultivated for 2 d in the dark. Calluses emerged on the explants on callus medium (C), Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium + 2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) (2.3 M) + kinetin (2.8 M) + timentin (300 mgl). Calluses 4- to 6-wk-old were selected for glufosinate (GS) resistance by a two step method. First, calluses were transferred to C medium + GS 0.35, 0.5, 1, 2, 5, or 10 mgl; calluses formed only with 0, 0.35 and 0.5 mgl GS. All growing calluses from 0 and 0.35 mgl and a few from 0.5 mgl, were divided and placed back on C + GS 0.35-0.5 mgl for another 5-6 wk. Second, tolerant clones were again divided and placed on C + GS 1-50 mgl. When cultivar XP85 was inoculated with both strains, using pGPTVBAR, 19 glufosinate resistant (GR) callus clones were selected, but shoots regenerated only for strain EHA105 inoculations. When both of the strains (each with pDHB321.1) were inoculated on cv. XP166, 3 and 12 GR calluses occurred for EHA105 and GV3101, respectively. Using CS, a total of 34 GR callus clones were selected, and shoots were regenerated from over 50% of them on Gamborg B5 medium + 6-(, -dimethylallylamino) purine 2ip (4.9 M) + naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA; 1.6 M) and rooted on MS in 5-6 mo total time. Conversely, using FB with inoculation by GV3101/pDHB321.1 on cv. XP166 yielded putative transgenic celery plants confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in just 6 wk. Transformation of the bar gene into celery was confirmed by PCR for 5 and 6 CS and FB lines, respectively. Southern blot analyses indicated 1-2 copies in CS lines and 1 copy in FB lines. Herbicide assays on whole plants with 100 and 300 mgl glufosinate indicated a range of low to high tolerance for lines derived by both methods. The bar gene was found to be Mendelian inherited in one self-fertile CS derived line.
41432836|Somatic embryogenesis can be induced in the leaves of cork oak (Quercus suber L.) trees. The use of this propagation system in multivarietal forestry requires the mass production of cloned plants at low cost. Investigations were made into the influence of three types of Erlenmeyer flask and three orbiting speeds (60, 110, and 160 rpm) on oxygen transfer rate (K L a), the shear force index (SFI), biomass production, and the proliferation of embryogenie clumps (EMCs) in cultures during the proliferation phase. K L a varied between 0.11 and 1.47 h without biomass production being limited by oxygen availability. The EMCs grew even in hypoxic conditions, although the suppression of gaseous exchange strongly reduced biomass production. Cultures with different levels of hydrodynamic stress and SFI values (1.4 10 -8.8. 10 cm min) were obtained. Proliferation rates of EMCs increased with agitation rate and the SFI. The largest number of EMCs was obtained in baffled flasks agitated at 160 rpm (K L a of 1.47 h , and SFI of 8.8.10 cm min) with mild hydrodynamic stress enhancing growth. Biomass production increased with agitation and hydrodynamic stress, but only when the SFI value was below 5-10 cm min . The greatest biomass production was obtained in smooth 100 ml flasks agitated at 160 rpm. The differentiation of embryos was favoured by the lowest K L a (0.11 h) and SFI (1.4010 cm min) values, achieved using these flasks when agitated at 60 rpm.
4293121|Artificial symbiosis was established between diazotrophic Azomonas insignis and strawberry (Fragaria X ananassa). The partnership was created by in vitro techniques through callus induction and organogenesis. Suitable micropropagation [M3 = Murashige and Skoog (1962) (MS) basal medium supplemented with
4293895|Heterotrophic plantlets obtained by in vitro propagation are biochemically different compared to autotrophic plantlets. When heterotrophic plantlets are transferred to ex vitro conditions, higher irradiance levels are generally applied. Irradiance levels higher than those used in vitro lead to oxidative stress symptoms that can be counteracted by CO
20541022|From a preliminary experiment on 98 Chinese soybean varieties, 12 varieties with somatic embryogenesis frequency ranging from 0.0% to 85.7% were selected for further study in order to enhance the efficiency of somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration. The effects of different mannitol concentrations, abscisic acid (ABA) concentrations, and embryo explant ages (sizes) were investigated. Significant differences in somatic embryogenesis were found among the 12 soybean varieties, with initiation frequencies varying from 22.1% to 89.0% under suitable mannitol concentration, and with N25281, N25263, and N06499 having the highest somatic embryogenic capacity. The results showed that all three factors were relevant for raising rates of callus initiation and somatic embryogenesis, but with differential responses among the genotypes. The treatment of 3.0% (w/v) mannitol, 5 mg l ABA, and a 4- to 5-mm-sized explant was found to be optimal for somatic embryogenesis, generating the highest explant-based regeneration rate at 83.0%. The greatest average number of plantlets regenerated per explant (1.35) was observed in N25281. The above results provide a basis for efficient regeneration of soybean and are informative for the development of genetic transformation systems in Chinese soybean germplasm.
20461672|Papaya (Carica papaya L.) production is affected by low temperatures that occur periodically in the subtropics. The C-repeat binding factor (CBF) gene family is known to induce the cold acclimation pathway in Arabidopsis thaliana. Embryogenic papaya cultures were induced from hypocotyls of "Sunrise Solo" zygotic embryos on semisolid induction medium. The CBF 1/CBF 3 genes along with the neomycin phosphotransferase (NPT II) gene were placed under the control of the CaMV 35 S promoter and introduced into a binary vector pGA 643. Embryogenic cultures were transformed with Agrobacterium strain GV 3101 harboring pGA 643. After selection of transformed embryogenic cultures for resistance to 300 mg l kanamycin, somatic embryo development was initiated and transgenic plants were regenerated. The presence of the CBF transgenes in regenerated plants was confirmed by Southern blot hybridization. The papaya and the related cold-tolerant Vasconcella genomes were probed for the presence of cold inducible sequences using polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Possible cold inducible sequences were present in the Vasconcella genome but were absent in the Carica genome.
4293841|Immature zygotic embryo has been the widely used explant source to develop embryogenic callus lines, cell suspensions and protoplasts for transformation of cereal crops including maize, wheat, rice, oat, barley, sorghum, and millet. However, the lack of competence of immature embryos in certain elite lines is still a barrier to routine production of transgenic cereal crops in certain commercial cultivars. In addition, a great deal of effort is required to produce immature embryos, manipulate cultures of immature embryos or their cell suspensions, and cryopreserve cultures for further use. In addition, undifferentiated cells may have reduced regenerability after a few months of in vitro culture. Alternative explants and regeneration systems for efficient transformation of cereal crops are needed to avoid or reduce the above limitations. During the past decade, scientists have successfully manipulated the shoot apical meristems from seedlings of maize, oat, sorghum, millet, wheat, and barley in an effort to develop a less genotype-dependent and efficient cereal regeneration system that can be maintained in vitro for long periods of time without the need for cryopreservation. Furthermore, apical meristem regeneration systems were used to stably transform maize, wheat, rice, oat, barley, sorghum, and millet.
4293370|Petiolar and distal cotyledonary segments (PCS and DCS) of Albizia chinensis were cultured on Murashige and Skoog's (MS; 1962) medium and induced to form adventitious shoot buds in the presence of either cytokinins 6-benzylamino purine (BAP), kinetin (KN) or thidiazuron (TDZ). Superiority of BAP in inducing shoot bud and differentiation was observed. PCS was more morphogenic to shoot bud differentiation than DCS. TDZ was highly effective in inducing shoot buds, but arrested shoot growth, while KN produced more callus during differentiation of shoots. Rapid and high rate of shoot multiplication per explant was achieved through subculture in MS medium containing BAP (
4293523|Physiological and biochemical responses of micropropagated tea plants grown under field conditions were investigated in comparison to vegetatively propagated (VP) plants. No significant variation was observed between tissue culture raised (TC) and VP plants in terms of photosynthetic carbon assimilation rate. However, clones showed significant variation among themselves. Carbon assimilation studies carried out with a radiotracer technique revealed that 'Assam' cultivar UPASI-27 assimilated a higher amount of labeled carbon dioxide followed by UPASI-3. However, UPASI-27 was marginally better than UPASI-3 in terms of mobilization of assimilates to the growing sinks. Both, UPASI-3 and UPASI-27 reassimilated higher quantities of photosynthates followed by BSB-1 and UPASI-26. Though there was a marginal variation in photosynthetic pigments of TC and VP plants, it was not statistically significant. Similarly, no significant variations were observed in certain substrates (polyphenols, catechins and amino acids) and enzymes (polyphenol oxidase, peroxidase and phenylalanine ammonia-lyase) except protease involved in the formation of quality constituents of made tea. However, clonal variation was evident with respect to photosynthetic pigments, substrates/enzymes. Under soil moisture stress, no significant variation was observed between VP and TC plants in terms of proline accumulation.
4293629| One easy-to-root and one difficult-to-root species of the ornamental plant Grevillea were investigated for rooting potential in relation to peroxidase activity. In vitro-grown shoot segments of both species started to root 30 d after transplanting to rooting medium containing indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), however, fewer roots were found on fewer segments of the difficult-to-root species G. petrophioides compared to the easy-to-root species G. rondeau. Total peroxidase (POX) activity was measured during the rooting process. G. petrophioides showed higher total POX activity at the time point of adventitious root formation than G. rondeau. Isoelectric focusing electrophoresis showed that G. rondeau contained more acidic isoforms than G. petrophioides, but the basic isoforms were more prominent in the difficult-to-root species, especially at the time point of lateral root emergence. In addition, the ability of different hormones to induce POX activity in upper and lower stem segments of both species was tested. Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), IBA and -naphthaleneacetic acid induced POX activity in the upper stem segments of G. rondeau, whereas the same hormones led to the induction of POX activity in the lower stem segments of G. petrophioides. Similar to the results obtained with Grevillea, the difficult-to-root variety of Protea showed higher POX activity, especially in the middle stem part and the leaves. Feeding of radiolabeled IAA to the Grevillea stem segments resulted in the synthesis of three different compounds in both species. After 1 h incubation no differences were found in the uptake of IAA and the appearance of other labeled compounds. However, after 2 and 4 h incubation IAA uptake was faster in the easy-to-root species and IAA was also metabolized to a higher extent in G. rondeau. Three metabolites were found, tentatively identified as IAA-aspartate, IBA, and an IBA conjugate. 
20461548|Since the 1960s, numerous studies on sugarcane plant regeneration have been reported. Essentially, successful culture and regeneration of plants from protoplasts, cells, callus, and various tissue and organs, have been achieved in this crop. Although plant regeneration from callus cultures had been reported since the 1960s, definitive proof of somatic embryo development was not available until 1983. Since then, considerable progress has been made in understanding and refining somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration in sugarcane, for which development of an efficient embryogenic system was critical for the application of transgenic technology. Recent research in Australia and South Africa has led to the development of direct somatic embryogenic systems, which may improve transgenesis in sugarcane.
42568796|A simple and efficient protocol for direct somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration of kohlrabi (Brassica oleracea var. gongylodes) was developed. Somatic embryos were induced from immature zygotic embryos at different developmental stages cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 0, 0.5, 1.0, or 1.5 mg/1 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Zygotic embryos at the early cotyledonary stage, which were cultured for 4 wk on plant growth regulator-free (PGR-free) medium, displayed the highest percentage of somatic embryogenesis (80.7%). Embryogenic tissue could be subcultured on the same medium for over 1 yr. Embryogenic lines derived from early cotyledonary stage zygotic embryos displayed the highest intensity of secondary embryogenesis (highest mean number of new somatic embryos per responsive somatic embryo explant). Histological analyses confirmed the direct origin of the secondary somatic embryos. Prolonged culturing of embryognie tissue on PGR-free medium led to somatic embryo development into plantlets that were successfully acclimated in the greenhouse with a survival rate of 72.5%. Flow cytometry analysis showed no ploidy variation in 96.7% of the acclimated plants.
20065018|In the past 15 years tremendous progress has been made towards the development of systems for the induction and development of somatic embryos of coniferous species. Since the first report in 1985, several species have been induced to produce somatic embryos. This has been rendered possible by the development of rational media and improvement of culture conditions, which have resulted in increased embryo quality and higher conversion frequency. Understanding the physiological and biochemical events occurring during in vivo embryogenesis has been fundamental in the design of new protocols for improving the somatic embryogenic process. Specifically, the inclusions of abscisic acid (ABA) and osmotic agents, such as polyethylene glycol (PEG), have been shown to be necessary for the functional development of somatic embryos. In the past few years, physiological and biochemical investigations have been useful in increasing our knowledge on the mode of action of ABA and PEG during embryo development. In comparison with the flowering plants, our understanding on the molecular mechanisms regulating the embryogenic process in coniferous species is still very limited. The application of new molecular techniques is therefore fundamental towards this end. The emphasis of this review is on recent information dealing with the maturation of conifer somatic embryos.
4293363|The commercial multiplication of a large number of diverse plant species represents one of the major success stories of utilizing tissue culture technology profitably. Micropropagation has now become a multibillion dollar industry, practised all over the world. Of the various methods used to micropropagate plants, somatic embryogenesis and enhanced axillary branching have become the principal methods of multiplication. Long-term benefits of this enterprise, however, lie in the production of clonally uniform plants. The concept of genetic uniformity among micropropagated plants derived through organized meristems was exploded by several convincing reports of the incidence of somaclonal variation at morphological, cytological (chromosome number and structure), cytochemical (genome size), biochemical (proteins and isozymes), and molecular (nuclear and organellar genomes) levels. Somaclonal variation is not limited to any particular group of plants; it has been reported, for example, in ornamentals, plantation crops, vegetable and food crops, forest species and fruit trees. The upsurge of these reports, facilitated to a large extent by the technical developments made in molecular biology, is a matter of great concern for any micropropagation system. The economic consequences of somaclonal variation can be enormous in forest trees and woody plants, as they have long life cycles. Therefore, somaclonal variation has to be dispensed with if large-scale micropropagation of diverse plant species is to become not only successful but also accepted by end-users. In the light of the various factors (genotype, ploidy level, in vitro culture age, explant and culture type, etc.) that lead to somaclonal variation of divergent genetic changes at the cellular and molecular levels, genetic analysis of micropropagated plants using a multidisciplinary approach, especially at the DNA sequence level, initially and at various cultural stages, is essential. The results obtained at early multiplication stages from these tests could help in modifying the protocol/s for obtaining genetically true-to-type plants, and ultimate usage by entrepreneurs without any ambiguity.
4293591|Leptadenia reticulata (Retz.) Wight. & Arn., an important herbal medicinal plant, belongs to the family Asclepiadaceae. This plant has been known for its medicinal uses since 4500 BC. Presently this is an endangered species. There is a need for applying non-conventional methods of propagation for conservation and sustainable utilization of biodiversity of Leptadenia reticulata. We developed a micropropagation method for mass multiplication of L. reticulata. Explants harvested from greenhouse-maintained and field-grown plants were used to establish cultures of L. reticulata. The nodal shoot segments were surface-sterilized and cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium along with additives (
4293392| Embryogenic callus was induced from primary leaves of Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp. in MS medium (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Greenish-white, friable embryogenic calluses were used to establish suspension cultures. A shaking speed of 90 rpm and 0.4 ml packed cell volume per 25 ml medium were found to be optimal for maintaining suspension cultures. Globular, heart-shaped and torpedo-shaped embryos were developed in suspension culture containing 4.52 M 2,4-D. Maturation of cotyledonary-stage somatic embryos was achieved on 0.05 M 2,4-D, 5 M abscisic acid and 3% mannitol. Twenty-two percent of the embryos were converted into plants and survived; survival in the field was 8-10%. 
4293909| We report a protocol for somatic embryogenesis and plantlet regeneration of Buchanania lanzan Spreng (Family - Anacardiaceae), which is a tropical fruit tree widely distributed in the dry forests of India. Calluses were initiated from immature zygotic embryos cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with various combinations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 6-benzyladenine (BA) and/or 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The highest frequency (60%) of somatic embryo induction was obtained in cultures grown on MS medium fortified with 4.53 M 2,4-D, 5.32 M NAA and 4.48 M BA. The medium supplemented with 15 M abscisic acid (ABA) was most effective for maturation and germination of somatic embryos. This is the first report on somatic embryogenesis in B. lanzan, which may be helpful for in vitro propagation, ex situ conservation and genetic manipulation of this species. 
20461675|Breeding efforts to obtain more nutritious maize materials aimed at alleviating dietary deficiencies in developing countries have resulted in an improved maize germplasm known as quality protein maize (QPM). Quality protein maize has higher contents of tryptophan, lysine, and leucine than common maize, but suffers from some major agronomic drawbacks found in common inbred maize lines, such as susceptibility to insect pests and fungal and bacterial diseases and herbicide sensitivity. The development of a reproducible and efficient protocol for tissue culture of QPM is expected to solve some of these deficiencies. In this work, we have evaluated different formulations for in vitro induction of morphogenic responses in three QPM lines developed by the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT): CML (CIMMYT maize line)-145, CML-176, and CML-186. Only CML-176 and CML-186 have proven to be responsive to the in vitro conditions considered in this work, with CML-176 showing the highest efficiency in regenerable callus formation and growth. N6C1 medium was found to be efficient for in vitro culture of QPM, whereas no plants could be regenerated by using MPC medium. From CML-176 embyogenic calli cultured on N6C1 medium, we were able to regenerate up to 0.3 plants per 500 mg fresh weight (FW) callus. Further modifications in this experimental protocol, including the replacement of 3,6-dichloro-o-anisic acid with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and modification of the N6C1 vitamin balance, significantly increased the regeneration response of the induced calli, with up to 16.8 and 9.3 plants recovered per 500 mg FW callus for CML-176 and CML-186, respectively.
4293395|The extraction, fractionation, and chromatographic separation of a series of proanthocyanidin monomers and oligomers were facilitated using a flavonoid-rich cell culture of Vaccinium pahalae Skottsberg as the donor tissue. The cell cultures, after exposure to light, readily accumulated anthocyanin pigments and other flavonoids in relatively large amounts, with minimal concurrent production of pectins, enzymes, and complex sugars produced in field-grown Vaccinium berries. The absence of these interfering compounds greatly simplified the isolation and purification of proanthocyanidins and other phenolic compounds from cell cultures, primarily using vacuum chromatography. Subsequently, the structures and molecular weights of several individual compounds and the general composition of unresolved fractions were established with
4292929|Vitrification-Hyperhydrous shoot development, effects the survival and quality of several micropropagated plants ex-vitro. The leaves which are the immediate organ to be affected, exhibit abnormal morphology and physiology. Leaf malfunction is apparently a stress response to very rich media and high relative humidity. The understanding of the underlying mechanism of vitrification and its control in vitro can contribute to a more efficient micropropagation. Vitrification was found to be associated with elevated ethylene production which was related to hypolignification and poor cell wall development. Liquid and low agar media induced callose formation along with reduced and disoriented cellulose biosynthesis, manifested also in non-functioning guard cells. Malfunctioning stomata, in addition to defective cuticle contributed to increased transpiration and desiccation of in vitro formed leaves. The activity of various enzymes, associated with cell wall synthesis, was low and total proteins in normal leaves was higher than in vitreous ones. Various measures were found to reduce vitrification; lowered matrix and water potential in the medium, reduction in RH, low NH
29736156|A method was developed for plant regeneration from alginate-encapsulated shoot tips of Phyllanthus amarus. Shoot tips excised from in vitro proliferated shoots were encapsulated in calcium alginate beads. The best gel complexation was achieved using 3% sodium alginate and 75 mM CaCl2HO. Maximum percentage response for conversion of encapsulated shoot tips into plantlets was 90% after 5 wk of culture on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium without plant growth regulator. The regrowth ability of encapsulated shoot tips was affected by the concentration of sodium alginate, storage duration, and the presence or absence of MS nutrients in calcium alginate beads. Plantlets with well-developed shoot and roots were transferred to pots containing an autoclaved mixture of soilrite and peat moss (1:1). The conversion of encapsulated shoot tips into plantlets also occurred when calcium alginate beads were directly sown in autoclaved soilrite moistened with 1/4-MS salts. Encapsulation of vegetative propagules in calcium alginate beads can be used as an alternative to synthetic seeds derived from somatic embryos.
20064844|Ripe and immature seeds of Orchis papilionacea (method I and II, respectively) cultured on modified double strength Curtis medium were assayed for minituber production. Ripe seed germination both on solid and in liquid medium was low and the protocorms obtained developed into white calluses. Germination increased from, 9 to 33% when immature seed suspension culture was used. Protocorms obtained in suspension culture under light developed into minitubers, whereas those obtained on solid media developed into callus. A 30 s ultrasonication of immature seeds 1 wk after suspension, culture initiation further enhanced germination and minituber production. Minitubers had to be transferred and embedded in solid regeneration medium for normal growth.
4293471| Mature seed-derived callus from an elite Chinese japonica rice cv. Ewan 5 was cotransformed with two plasmids, pWRG1515 and pRSSGNA1, containing the selectable marker hygromycin phosphotransferase gene (hpt), the reporter -glucuronidase gene (gusA) and the snowdrop (Galanthus nivalis) lectin gene (gna) via particle bombardment. Thirty-five independent transgenic rice plants were regenerated from 177 bombarded calluses. Eighty-three percent of the transgenic plants contained all three genes, as revealed by Southern blot analysis. Western blot analysis revealed that 23 out of 29 gna-containing transgenic plants expressed Galanthus nivalis agglutinin (GNA) (79%) at various levels with the highest expression being approximately 0.5% of total soluble protein. Genetic analysis confirmed Mendelian segregation of all three transgenes (gna, hpt and gusA) in the R2 progeny. Amongst the R2 generation, two independent homozygous lines were identified that expressed all three transgenes. Insect bioassay and feeding tests showed that these homozygous lines had significant inhibition to rice brown planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens, BPH) by decreasing the survival, overall fecundity of BPH, retarding development, and decreasing the feeding of BPH. These BPH-resistant lines have been incorporated into a rice insect resistance breeding program. This is the first report that homozygous transgenic rice lines expressing GNA, developed by genetic transformation and through genetic analysis-based selection, conferred enhanced resistance to BPH. 
20064888|Arachis hypogaea L., peanut, has been a difficult species to manipulate in tissue culture. Lack of a reliable and quick regeneration method for peanuts has proven to be one of the hindrances in the application of transformation protocols to the crop. A protocol to initiate shoot apex elongation and rooting of these shoots is described. This protocol was successful with two peanut cultivars. Shoot apices were isolated from germinated seedlings and placed on Murashige and Skoog salts containing N-benzyladenine for shoot initiation. Once shoot elongation occurred, the explant was transferred to a rooting medium containing Murashige and Skoog salts and only one plant growth regulator, -naphthalene acetic acid. In as few as 3 weeks, the explants began to root and could be transferred to soil. Forty-five percent of explants isolated from germinating peanut seeds would root on this medium. Elongation and rooting of the shoot apices were not hindered by the addition of an antibiotic to the medium, indicating that the regeneration method could be useful in Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation protocols.
4293735| Creeping bentgrass is a very important turfgrass species used extensively on golf course greens, fairways, and tees. One of the challenges of creeping bentgrass management is the control of grassy weeds, most of which respond to herbicides in a similar manner to that of creeping bentgrass. As part of a weed management program for golf courses, Roundup-tolerant creeping bentgrass will be simple to employ and more effective in controlling problem weeds than currently available methods. The goal of this research was to evaluate fitness-related reproductive traits in four transgenic creeping bentgrass events modified to express a Roundup-tolerant gene, cp4 epsps, to determine if these creeping bentgrass events had gained an unexpected reproductive fitness advantage. We compared transgenic events ASR333, ASR801 with their non-transformed tissue culture line, C99056L and transgenic events ASR365, ASR368 with their non-transformed tissue culture line, B99061R. Populations of plants from three conventional cultivars were also included for comparison to determine whether significant variations, if present in transgenic events, were novel to the non-transformed organism, Agrostis stolonifera L. Our results showed that none of the four transgenic events surveyed were significantly different from the respective non-transformed tissue culture line plants for the following characteristics: first heading date, anthesis duration, inflorescence length, number of florets per inflorescence, pollen size, and seed-set capacity through open-pollination. One of the transgenic events, ASR333, needed significantly more days for anthesis initiation than the non-transformed tissue culture line, C99056L; while another transgenic event, ASR801, exhibited significantly shorter pollen longevity than plants of the tissue culture line, C99056L. However, ASR801 was not significantly different from the conventional cultivars 'Penn A-4' and 'Penncross' for pollen longevity. Plants of both transgenic events ASR365 and ASR368 did not differ significantly from plants of the tissue culture line, B99061R, for all characters measured. 
4293547| Shoot cultures of the paper shell almond (Prunus dulcis Mill.) cultivars 'Ne Plus Ultra' and 'Nonpareil' were subcultured for 4 wk at 4C on growth regulator-free basal medium under low light conditions. Elongated shoots were excised and their response to a range of rooting treatments determined. Various concentrations of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and -naphthaleneacetic acid were compared over a range of incubation periods to determine the optimum auxin for root formation. In addition, the effect of shoot base shading, phloroglucinol (PG), and basal salt composition were examined. The treatment resulting in the best rooting of both cultivars was shoot insertion for 12 h into water-agar (0.6% w/v) with 1.0 mM IBA, followed by 2 wk in basal medium without auxin but with 100.0 M PG. Explants were maintained under dark conditions for 3 d at the start of the treatment period, then exposed to light. Extending the darkening period did not improve rooting ability. Whilst half-strength Murashige and Skoog basal medium was suitable for rooting 'Ne Plus Ultra' shoots, full-strength Almehdi and Parfitt medium resulted in the best rooting of 'Nonpareil'. Under these conditions, 60.0% of explants developed adventitious roots. 
20171612|Exploiting plants as biological bioreactors for production and delivery of edible oral subunit vaccines is a promising application of biotechnology. Efforts to enhance expression levels of transgenes coding for antigenic proteins by exploiting promoters, targeting sequences, and enhancer elements have produced rather low quantities of the antigen in plant tissues, but enough to induce immune responses in feeding studies. This review will cover components of various gene constructs used in developing plant-based vaccines against a myriad of viral and bacterial diseases. Specifically, it will focus on sequences that are involved in targeting the antigen to mucosal tissues of the intestinal tract, thus enhancing the immunogenicity of the plant-based vaccine as well as those components that result in higher accumulation of the protein within the plant.
4293495|A protocol has been developed for differentiation of shoot buds directly from leaf segments of white marigold (Tagetes erecta L.). Leaf segments were taken from in vitro-proliferated shoots of white marigold established in aseptic culture from shoot tips of field-grown plants. Gibberellic acid (GA) played a significant role in the induction of shoot buds as well as in suppressing callus formation. Shoot buds were induced directly in Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium supplemented with
20064814|The study of the formation of pollen in plants has been the focus of extensive morphologic and cytologic observations. This complex developmental process requires the coordinated activity of both gametophytic and sporophytic tissues. The events that occur during microspore development represent a carefully orchestrated program of physiologic, biochemical, and genetic activities. Genes expressed specifically in pollen or in sporophytic tissues that support pollen development have only recently been identified and described. In the present paper we describe several genes expressed during pollen development in the important oil seed species Brassica napus (oil seed rape/canola). The characterization of three gene families expressed during microspore development is reviewed which provides a basis for comparison with other genes expressed during pollen maturation. The potential value of these genes for the development of novel plant breeding strategies and hybrid seed production is discussed.
42568882|Calotropis gigantea (L.) Ait., belonging to the family Asclepiadaceae, is a source of many cardiac glycosides (CGs) and their steroidal moieties (genins). These CGs have been reported to have anti-proliferative activity on tumor cell lines and are potential targets for cancer chemotherapy. However, the abundance of CGs in wild plants is particularly restricted and it is difficult to isolate the desired compound in required quantities. This study is the first attempt to standardize the induction and proliferation of callus from various expiants of C. gigantea specifically for the production of CGs. Callus growth was accompanied by CG measurement using high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Murashige and Skoog (MS) and modified Murashige and Skoog (MMS) media were optimized with various combinations and concentrations of auxin and cytokinin for induction and growth of calli from a range of expiant sources. While leaves and stem expiants resulted in greatest callus induction, MMS medium was found to be optimal. However, no CG was produced from callus grown on this medium. In contrast, the induction and proliferation of callus on MS medium were optimum at primary stages, but growth slowed during the third subculture. Therefore, calli were transferred to MMS medium to promote callus proliferation and production of CGs. As a result, three CGs and two genins were biosynthesized. Furthermore, the callus induction data in MS medium indicated that among different auxins, 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid was the best for callus induction compared to 1-naphthylacetic acid and indole-3-acetic acid. The data also revealed that the cytokinin/auxin ratio was critical rather than their independent presence for the induction of callus. Thus, the in vitro biosynthesis of targeted CGs may offer an alternative pathway for new source of antiproliferative agents in required quantities.
4293703|St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum L.) is a medicinal plant used in the treatment of neurological disorders and has been recently shown to have anticancer potential. The principle medicinal components of St. John's wort are hypericin, pseudohypericin, and hyperforin. One of the problems associated with medicinal plant preparations including St. John's wort is the extreme variability in the phytochemical content, mostly due to environmental variability, and biotic and abiotic contamination during cropping. The current study was undertaken to transplant St. John's wort plants from in vitro bioreactors in a closed controlled environment system (CCES) with CO
4293076| Direct somatic embryo formation and plantlet regeneration was achieved from immature leaflets of chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.). Optimal somatic embryogenesis was obtained when immature leaflets were exposed to media supplemented with 15 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) for 7 d, to 2000 M 2,4-D for 3 d, and to 50 M 2,4-D for 10 d, followed by transfer onto Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium. Exposure of explants to high 2,4-D levels (200-2000 M) for 3 d produced bottle-shaped embryos, while exposure to low 2,4-D levels (<50 M) and 50-2000 M for 10 d produced spherical-shaped embryos. Two percent of embryos converted into plants upon culture on MS medium containing 15 M gibberellic acid and 1 M 3-indolebutyric acid. All regenerated plants were phenotypically normal. 
4293408|Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) is a powerful tool for visualizing the chromosomal location of targeted sequences and has been applied in many areas, including karyotyping, breeding and characterization of genes introduced into the plant genome. A simple, routine and sensitive FISH procedure was developed for localizing single copy genes in rice (Oryza saliva L.) metaphase chromosomes. We used digoxygenin-labeled endogenous or T-DNA sequences as small as 5.6 kb to probe corresponding endogenous sequences or the T-DNA insert in denatured rice metaphase chromosomes prepared from root meristem tissue. The hybridized probe sequence was labeled with cy3-conjugated anti-mouse IgG and visualized using fluorescence microscopy. Single copy and multiple copy introduced T-DNA sequences, as well as endogenous sequences, were localized on the chromosomes. The FISH protocol was effectively used to screen the chromosomal location of introduced T-DNA and number of integration loci in rice.
4293330| As a general group, long-lived perennial plants probably present the most challenging obstacles to the researcher, breeder or propagator utilizing microculture as a tool. These challenges appear during all stages of the microculture process, but are probably most resplendent during the stabilization phase. What may be particularly frustrating is that much of this 'recalcitrance' is genetically driven and is thus difficult to control by environmental and nutritional manipulations in microculture. Perennials have complex seasonal cycles and life cycles, which complicate control of their growth in microculture. As shoot cultures have provided useful tools for overcoming these limitations, the inability to establish stabilized shoot cultures is a major form of recalcitrance. Plants having seasonal growth dynamics dominated by strong episodic or determinant shoot growth are some of the most recalcitrant species because stabilized shoot cultures cannot be readily generated. In some cases, episodic growth may be tied closely to phase state and can thus be controlled by manipulating phase; nevertheless, adequate controls have not been identified for many problematic plants. Another trait contributing to recalcitrance of perennials is the relatively slow growth rate in microculture. Slow growth complicates such procedures as selection of transformed tissues. The high phenolic content of many perennial tissues can interfere with the efficacy of transgenic traits such as -glucuronidase. Developmentally determined growth characteristics such as plagiotropism may persist through all stages of microculture and complicate the recovery of commercially useful micropropagules. Although some technical approaches can occasionally circumvent immediate microculture limitations, general solutions await the development of a deeper understanding of physiological bases of such genetically predetermined phenomena. 
42568820|Slow growth storage has been achieved for Castanea sativa (cv. 'Montemarano') shoot cultures over a duration of 48 mo at a temperature of 8C, where 82% of expiants survived and were able to resume normal growth after transfer to standard culture conditions at 23C. The evaluation of the chlorophyll content of leaves also showed no differences between material stored for 48 mo and control material subcultured at 23C. With a storage temperature of 4C, the survival of shoots was significantly lower at approximately 56% after 12 mo, and no plants recovered after 24-mo storage. The presence of 6-benzyladenine 0.44 M in the culture medium proved to be necessary for the recovery of healthy shoots, while pre-treatments with different concentrations of abscisic acid did not significantly influence the survival of shoots following storage conditions. A low level of light during slow growth storage resulted in positive effects on the rate of shoot survival over the longest preservation periods.
20064831|Protoplasts were isolated from cotyledons of 1- to 1.5-mo.-old seedlings of Chamaecyparis obtusa using 1% driselase or 0.25% pectolyase Y-23 in combination with 1% cellulase RS in 0.6 M mannitol solution. Cell division and colony formation were induced efficiently in liquid Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium containing 0.6 M mannitol and 10 to 30 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid or 1 M of naphthaleneacetic acid at the cell density of 1 to
41432842|The mango, a virtually neglected fruit before the advent of nitrate-induced flowering, is now the third leading export finit in the Philippines, with the 'Carabao' mango being the only variety exported. Delay or control of ripening, as well as the ability to program market availability, would further increase the value of mango.Prolonging its shelf life and improving other characteristics can be achieved through biotechnology, requiring a reliable tissue culture regeneration protocol, and a successful transfer-to-soil system. Between 2004 and 2008, immature fruits were collected and cultured in vitro. Primary somatic embryo (SE) induction ranged from 16-100% depending on the strain, collection time, and tree source. A single SE was required to initiate SE proliferation. When subcultured, the SEs proliferated, germinated, and produced plantlets.Initial shoot formation was 8-64%, while succeeding true leaf formation was reduced to 0-36%. In some cultures, abscission and browning were observed, but gas chromatography assays ruled out ethylene as the cause. Regenerated plants survived transfer to soil, but at low percentages. While it took 1 y to develop the tissue culture protocol, it took 3 y to develop the technique for successful transfer of plantlets to soil, and to the field. This is the first report, of a polyembryonic mango, variety Carabao, for which successful tissue culture and field transplantation systems were developed. The technology is equally important as a way to rapidly propagate uniform rootstocks of superior 'Carabao' strains or other varieties, for generation of variability, genetic transformation, and for germplasm conservation and exchange.
4293555|In vitro banana (Musa spp.) shoots were cultured under photomixotrophic (
20064917|Side shoots excised from underground dormant buds of Cynara scolymus L. were used as primary explants to establish in vitro cultures. A 3  3 factorial experiment with all possible combinations of three concentrations (0.5, 1.0, 2.0 mg/liter or 2.22, 4.44, 8.88 M) of N-benzyladenine (BA) and three concentrations (0, 0.1, 0.2 mg/liter or 0, 0.54, 1.07 M) of 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) was used to determine the optimum growth regulator combination for shoot multiplication. The highest rate of axillary shoots was induced on Murashige and Skoog agar medium supplemented with 0 mg NAA/liter and 1.0 mg BA/liter (4.44 M). Other cytokinins tested (kinetin, zeatin, and 2-isopentenyl-adenine were less effective than BA in inducing axillary shoot growth. Up to 60% of elongated microshoots rooted after 5 weeks on 1/2 MS agar medium supplemented with 2 mg/liter (11.42 M) indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Seventy percent of rooted plantlets were transferred successfully into soil. Plants are under evaluation for their genetic uniformity and clonal fidelity.
4293445|Regeneration of adventitious shoots from the medicinal plant Nothapodytes foetida (Weight) Sleumer Syn. Mappia foetida (family Icacinaceae) has been achieved using different seedling explants. Direct regeneration of shoot buds was observed in Murashige and Skoog's (MS) basal medium supplemented with various concentrations of thidiazuron. The optimum levels of thidiazuron concentrations were
20064949|A culture medium that can efficiently produce mature somatic embryos was developed for loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.). The medium contained maltose as a carbohydrate source and polyethylene glycol as an osmoticum. This medium formulation significantly enhanced embryo maturation efficiency compared to a medium with only maltose, or with sucrose combined with polyethylene glycol. Maltose at 4% and polyethylene glycol at 6% resulted in the highest embryo maturation efficiency; an average of around 100 cotyledonary embryos were produced from 1 g of embryogenic tissue. These results suggested that previous ineffective embryo maturation in loblolly pine may be due to the lack of the proper combination of osmoticum and carbohydrate source. This embryo maturation method also improved morphology of cotyledonary embryos of loblolly pine.
29736190|Agrobacterium rhizogenes is the etiological agent for hairy-root disease (also known as root-mat disease). This bacterium induces the neoplastic growth of plant cells that differentiate to form "hairy roots." Morphologically, A. rhizogenes-induced hairy roots are very similar in structure to wild-type roots with a few notable exceptions: Root hairs are longer, more numerous, and root systems are more branched and exhibit an agravitropic phenotype. Hairy roots are induced by the incorporation of a bacterial-derived segment of DNA transferred (T-DNA) into the chromosome of the plant cell. The expression of genes encoded within the T-DNA promotes the development and production of roots at the site of infection on most dicotyledonous plants. A key characteristic of hairy roots is their ability to grow quickly in the absence of exogenous plant growth regulators. As a result, hairy roots are widely used as a transgenic tool for the production of metabolites and for the study of gene function in plants. Researchers have utilized this tool to study root development and root-biotic interactions, to overexpress proteins and secondary metabolites, to detoxify environmental pollutants, and to increase drought tolerance. In this review, we provide an up-to-date overview of the current knowledge of how A. rhizogenes induces root formation, on the new uses for A. rhizogenes in tissue culture and composite plant production (wild-type shoots with transgenic roots), and the recent development of a disarmed version of A. rhizogenes for stable transgenic plant production.
20064948|Thirteen soybean genotypes representing maturity groups IV-VI were compared for organogenic responses on three media cultured under two lighting conditions with hypocotyl sections excised from 7-d-old seedlings. All soybean lines responded by producing adventitious shoots on the acropetal end of the hypocotyl explants, confirming genotype-independence of shoot initiation. Media containing 6-benzyladenine (BA; 5.0-10 M) induced the greatest numbers of shoots. Histological studies confirmed the adventitious nature of arising shoots by indicative formation of meristematic zones and shoot primordia from parenchymatous tissues of central pith and plumular trace regions of the hypocotyl. Incompletely excised cotyledonary buds also contributed to shoot initiation. Degrees of responses were media-dependent and varied with regard to genotype. Centennial, Epps, and Lyon gave the greatest individual responses. Between cultivars (across all treatments), the regeneration potential (percentage of explants producing meristem-like structures or shoot primordia) 4 wk after initiation ranged from 47 to 75%. Four wk later, regenerative ability (number of shoots produced per responding explant) and regeneration efficiency (number of shoots produced per explant plated) yielded 1.4-7.1 and 1.0-5.0 shoots, respectively. The optimized protocol included initiation on a medium containing 5.0 M BA for 4 wk, then transfer onto a shoot elongation medium (0.36 M BA) for 4 wk. For 11 genotypes tested, 66-100% of excised shoots produced roots after 4 wk on media containing 12.5-29.2 M indole-3-butyric acid. Of 109 regenerants transplanted to soil, 94% survived and no sterility has been observed on those mature enough to flower.
20171604| Suspension cultures initiated from calluses derived from seedling leaf explants of Acacia sinuata (Lour.) Merr. produced somatic embryos. Embryogenic callus was induced on semisolid MS (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) medium supplemented with 4.52 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 2.22 M 6-benzylaminopurine. A high frequency of somatic embryos was induced in MS liquid medium supplemented with 4.52 M 2,4-D and 10% coconut water. Further studies on ontogeny of somatic embryos showed that the cells destined to become somatic embryos divided into spherical proembryos. Subsequent development led to the formation of globular, heart-, torpedo-shaped and cotyledonary-stage embryos. The conversion of somatic embryos occurred on auxin-free MS medium. Effects of various auxins, cytokinins, carbohydrates and amino acids in enhancing production of somatic embryos were studied. MS medium supplemented with 87.64 mM sucrose and 342.46 M glutamine promoted higher somatic embryo production whereas cytokinin had no effect and led to recallusing of embryos. About 8-10% of embryos converted into plants. 
20540991|Mutations were induced in tissue-cultured wasabi (Wasabia japonica Matsumura) by treating in vitro-derived shoot tips with either -rays or X-rays at 0, 10, 20, 40 or 80 Gy. Doses of up to 40 Gy of either - or X-ray treatments resulted in a survival rate of more than 60% in culture after 3 mo. The use of - or X-rays at doses between 10 Gy and 40 Gy to induce mutation in W. japonica resulted in an alteration of the growth and allyl isothiocyanate (AITC) content of multiple shoots after 3 mo. in culture on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 5 M N-benzyladenine (BA). Putative mutants from the 40 Gy treatments of either - or X-rays exhibited a reduction in shoot weight, number, and height, whereas treatments of either -rays or X-rays at 10 Gy and 20 Gy doses showed no significant differences in shoot growth. All shoots treated with 80 Gy were either necrotic or irregenerable, while those treated with 40 Gy produced deformed leaves, from both types of ionizing radiation. Concentrations of AITC were measured by the use of gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The accumulation of AITC was shown to decrease when doses increased in both - and X-ray treatments, compared with the controls. Positive responses were solely occurred at 18 mo. after transfer of in vitro rooted shoots to the shade house. The survival rate, rhizome weight and AITC content of plants derived from shoots treated with 20 Gy or 40 Gy of either -rays or X-rays were significantly greater than those of the controls.
29736198|Two efficient regeneration systems were developed in Cunninghamia lanceolata, the most important conifer for industrial wood production in China. Cotyledons and hypocotyls derived from greenhouse-grown seedlings were used as initial explants in our research. A high frequency (95.11.84%) of adventitious buds were initiated directly from cotyledons cultured on Douglas-fir cotyledon revised (DCR) medium supplemented with 1 mg l benzyladenine (BA), 0.1 mg l -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), and 0.004 mg l thidiazuron (TDZ) with a maximum mean number of adventitious buds per cotyledon explant of 3.760.08. In contrast, a high percentage (93.730.55%) of adventitious buds regenerated via callus produced from hypocotyls cultured on DCR medium supplemented with plant growth regulators with a maximum number of adventitious buds per explant (16.710.34). Adventitious buds elongated on DCR medium supplemented with 0.2 mg l BA and 0.02 mg l NAA. After liquid pretreatment with 50 mg l indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), over 95% of the shoots successfully rooted on  DCR medium supplemented with 0.3 mg l IBA. The innovated systems reported in this study will be useful tools for future genetic manipulation of C. lanceolata and may be adapted for large-scale propagation in other conifers.
20171636| An efficient system for in vitro micropropagation of Solanum laciniatum Ait. has been established. Shoot induction on leaf explants was most successful on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 10 M N-benzyladenine (BA) and 1 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). BA (13 M) was optimal for further shoot multiplication, and rooting of separated shoots was achieved on medium without plant growth regulators. At each subculture, 20-25 shoots were obtained on each explant, from which six to eight were suitable for separation and further rooting. Leaf explants grown in vitro were successfully infected by Agrobacterium rhizogenes ATCC 15834. The established hairy root culture was, on the basis of dry weight, more productive when grown on half-strength MS medium than on full-strength MS (3% sucrose) and full-strength MS (6% sucrose) medium. The amount of solasodine-containing glycoalkaloids in hairy roots as measured by a colorimetric method was 0.3-1% of dry weight, which is higher than in the shoot culture (0.5% of dry weight) and lower than in leaves of in vivo-grown plants (1.1-1.4% of dry weight). The amount of solasodine-containing glycoalkaloids in leaves of in vivo-grown plants of S. laciniatum was similar to the related species Solanum aviculare Forst. Both species are morphologically similar, therefore we effectively distinguished them by flow cytometry. The genome size of S. laciniatum was determined as 4.03 pg and the genome size of S. aviculare as 1.69 pg. 
4293855|Tissue culture and plant regeneration protocols for the salt marsh plants Juncus roemerianus Scheele and Juncus gerardi Loisel. were developed. J. roemerianus callus was induced from mature seeds cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
4293066|An efficient and easy method for genetic characterization of plant somatic hybrids is proposed. In a first qualitative approach, four somatic hybrids and their parental species (Nicotiana tabacum and N. plumbaginifolia) were characterized by DNA fingerprinting and Random Amplification of Polymorphic DNA (RAPD). After this, a quantitative estimation of the degree of parental contribution to the hybrids was carried out by means of a slot-blot analysis. Both qualitative methods, showed one hybrid identical to N. tabacum, two almost identical to N. plumbaginifolia, and a fourth similar to this parental species, but with some N. tabacum admixture. The quantitative method, for the same hybrids, gave 83%, 7%, 7%, and 37% N. tabacum DNA contribution, respectively.
20461622|In vitro plant cultures tend to get contaminated easily with bacteria and fungi because they are grown for long times in sugar-rich media. Contamination of bioreactors is particularly problematic as larger volumes entail larger losses. To study the movement and develop subsequent control of contaminants in the mist bioreactor, the spore-forming microbes Penicillium chrysogenum and Bacillus subtilis were deliberately inoculated into three possible locations in the reactor: the growth chamber (GC), the medium reservoir (R), or the mist-generating chamber (MG). Compared to inoculation into either R or MG regions, the growth of P. chrysogenum inoculated into the GC required 3 more days (c. 60% more time) to move throughout the rest of the reactor. In contrast, regardless of where B. subtilis was inoculated (GC, R, or MG), it took 7 d to contaminate the entire system. The movement of filamentous fungi and bacteria seems to follow the same route of contamination throughout this reactor. Once visibly present in the reactor, neither contaminant was controllable by addition of the biocide, Plant Preservative Mixture (PPM). Both microbes were completely inhibited if PPM was added to the MG at the time of inoculation and then again 2-d post-inoculation of plants. Reactors were run for 3 wk. Plants remained free of contamination. These results will prove useful in the implementation of large-scale in vitro culture systems.
23321168|Vegetatively propagated plantlets of six rose cultivars were induced to flower in vitro on media containing full-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) inorganic salts, Gamborg's B5 organic elements with 400 mg l-1 myo-inositol, and different phytohormone combinations of 6-benzyladenine (BA) with -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA); thidiazuron (TDZ) with NAA; and zeatin (ZT) with NAA. The most efficient flower bud induction (49.1% and 44.1%) was obtained on media supplemented with 0.5 mg l-1 (2.27 M) TDZ and 0.1 mg l-1 (0.54 M) NAA or 0.5 mg l-1 (2.28 M) ZT and 0.1 mg l-1 (0.54 M) NAA for cultivar Orange Parade. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) showed that in vitro flower bud induction occurred mostly between 15 and 30 d in induction medium through the normal flower development processes. With TDZ and ZT as the best choice for flower induction in all six cultivars tested, different rose cultivars varied in their responses to phytohormone treatments. Our study also revealed that the total time from original culture and subculture time before flower induction were two very important factors for in vitro flower induction. Plantlets 156561 d from original culture and subcultured for 45 d were the best for flower induction.
4293816|In vitro propagation of Quassia amara L. (Simaroubaceae) was attempted using mature and juvenile explants. Attempts to establish in vitro culture using leaf and internode explants from a plant more than 15 yr old were unsuccessful due to severe phenolic exudation. Plant regeneration through direct and indirect somatic embryogenesis was established from cotyledon explants. Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with
4293021|A micropropagation system was developed for Acacia mearnsii De Wild., which is the principal source of the world's tanbark and an excellent firewood. Shoot tips 5-mm long from 3-wk-old seedlings germinated in vitro served as explants. The seeds were germinated on hormone-free MS medium and the shoot tips were cultured on three-fourth-strength MS medium supplemented with combinations of auxins [indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and
20064870|Single node stem segments from in vitro potato shoots cultured in liquid medium in the presence of ancymidol (23.4 M) developed into bud clusters in either shaken flasks or bioreactor cultures. Buds on the clusters developed tubers after subculture to a tuber induction medium with 23.2 M kinetin, 19.5 M ancymidol, and 6-8% sucrose. The number of tubers per cluster and their size were higher in agar induction medium on top of which a second layer of liquid medium was added, than in liquid shake or bioreactor cultures. The highest increase in tuber size (i.e., 720 mg fresh weight after 7 weeks), was obtained in agar cultures flushed twice with liquid tuber induction medium. The potential of bioreactor cultures for potato bud proliferation and enhanced tuber development in double layer agar-liquid cultures is discussed.
20064935|The present study is an attempt to exploit somaclonal variation for the varietal improvement of pigeonpea [Cajanus cajan (L) Millsp.]. The pigeompea plants were regenerated from cotyledon explants, and their progeny was screened for variability. The regenerated R1 plants exhibited a spectrum of alterations in floral morphology and architecture that were absent in the control population. The field-sown R2 plants segregated for traits such as flower color, leaf shape, seed size, color and strophiolation, flowering habit, and fertility. Tissue culture produced different mutational events resulting in both dominant and recessive alleles. Significant variation was observed for plant height, seed mass, and damage due to the insect pest Helicoverpa armigera. The R3 plants, obtained from seed of R2 generation selected for traits such as white seed coat, strophiolation, reduced plant height, seed mass and low damage due to Helicoverpa, maintained the traits when compared with the seed-derived control populations. The results indicate a definite gene for white seed coat and the possibility of additional genes for pest tolerance and high seed mass in an adapted background.
20461677|High frequency plantlet regeneration was achieved in cotyledonary nodes of Aegle marmelos. Cotyledonary nodes from 1 mo. old in vitro grown seedlings of A. marmelos were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with benzyl adenine (BA) (0-8.8 M), kinetin (KIN) (0-9.4 M), and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) (0-1.14 M) either alone or in combinations. The highest regenerative response was observed on medium containing 6.6 M BA+1.14 M IAA where approximately 86.6% of the cultures responded with an average shoot numbers of 487.5 per explant in 7-wk time. Cultures maintained on KIN-supplemented medium showed very poor response. In vitro responded shoots were transferred to root induction medium consisting of half-strength MS supplemented with auxins IAA, indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), or -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA). Rooting was best in medium supplemented with 14.7 M IBA. Rooted plantlets were acclimatized and transferred to the field with 80% survival rate.
20461577|An efficient plant regeneration protocol for rapidly propagating Rhodiola fastigiata (Hk. f. et Thoms.) S.H.FU, a traditional Chinese medicinal plant, was developed. Shoot organogenesis occurred from the leaf explants inoculated on medium with appropriate supplements of plant growth regulators. Up to 5.3 shoots formed per leaf explant cultured on a medium containing 13.32 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 0.54 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Regenerated shoots formed complete plantlets on a medium containing 1.48 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), and mature plants were established, acclimatized, and thrived in greenhouse conditions. The regeneration protocol developed in this study provides a basis for germplasm conservation and for further investigation of medicinally active constituents of the elite Chinese medicinal plant.
42568435|Repeated attempts to genetically transform Pinus radiata embryonal masses through cocultivation with Agrobacterium tumefaciens on MSG medium were unproductive due to Agrobacterium overgrowth. Timentin at either 200 or 400 mg1- was ineffective in inhibiting bacterial growth after cocultivation. In this study, the causes of the abundant bacterial growth were investigated by comparing MSG medium with two other media (mLVand DCR) commonly used in conifer somatic embryogenesis. Statistical analysis of the growth data (optical density and number of cell-forming units) showed that bacterium grew significantly more on MSG than on mLV or DCR during the 48-h cocultivation. This enhanced growth was attributed to the higher concentration of L-glutamine in MSG. Lowering the concentration of L-glutamine in MSG to 0.5 gl- resulted in similar growth of Agrobacterium compared with the other two media. MSG was also superior for the growth of radiata pine cells, with a statistically significant difference after 14 d of culture. Hence, to avoid bacterial overgrowth during and after cocultivation, a two-medium protocol was developed in which cocultivation was carried out on mLV, followed by 5 d on mLV with 400 mgl- Timentin. Selection for transformed cells and further control of bacterial growth was then performed using MSG with Timentin and Geneticin. By sequential application of these two media, 2,096 cell colonies were selected; of these, 94 were analyzed and 49 were transgenic. These results highlight yet another factor that might be critical for the success of transformation experiments but has not been sufficiently studied until now: the growth dynamics and ability to eliminate A. tumefaciens on various plant tissue culture media.
40981337|The ability to screen the functionality of gene constructs in a transient system of appropriate tissues informs the researcher of the potential success of stable transformation. For this purpose, we developed a transient system to test the functionality of endosperm-preferred promoters in maize. Two endosperm-preferred promoters from rice (a globulin and a glutelin promoter) were employed. Ears of Zea mays L. were harvested at 17 d after pollination, surface sterilized and the endosperm excised. Using Agrobacterium tumefaciens co-cultivation and sonication, transient expression of the target genes was detected after 4 and 5 d. We demonstrate expression of CBH I and CHB II (both exo-cellulases) up to 1.7% TSP, under the rice globulin and glutelin promoters.
23326875|Limitations to large-scale propagation of purple pitahaya (Hylocereus costaricensis [F.A.C. Weber] Britton & Rose), a potential source of betalains for the food industry, can be overcome through utilization of in vitro culture technologies. In this work, successful in vitro propagation from areoles of adult purple pitahaya plants is reported. Factors affecting culture initiation, bud sprouting and growth, shoot multiplication, rooting, and acclimatization were studied. Best results for culture initiation were obtained from the central region of new joints by disinfection of large (57 cm in length) explants that were subsequently divided. Explants were sequentially treated with Extran alkaline detergent for 10 min, followed by immersion in 70 % (v/v) ethanol for 1530 s, a mixture of the fungicide Benomyl and the bactericide Agrymicin (2 gl -1 each) for 30 min, and disinfection in sodium hypochlorite (1.0 %w/v) for 15 min. Culture of sectioned individual areoles, without removing thorns, on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 15 or 30 M N 6 -benzylaminopurine (BAP) for 3 mo with monthly subcultures, followed by transfer to the same medium with reduced BAP (02 M), induced bud sprouting in over 80 % of explants, adequate growth of the shoots, with production of lateral shoots, and spontaneous rooting within 160 d. These plants were successfully acclimatized in vermiculite and peat moss (1:1), or perlite and peat moss (2:1) in the greenhouse, with over 90 % survival rate. One hundred percent of the in vitro-derived plants were successfully transferred to the field. Furthermore, these plants showed higher survival rates, larger height and increase in stem diameter than equivalent plants from the same genotype, derived from stem segments (the common clonal propagation system utilized for this species) that were simultaneously planted.
4293672|Electroporation conditions were optimized for the transfection of protoplasts isolated from an embryogenic cell line of sweet orange [Citrus sinensis (L.) Osbeck cv. Hamlin]. Electric field strength (
4293613|Three auxin-type herbicides, namely 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), (4-chlorophenoxy)acetic acid 2-(dimethylamino)ethyl ester (centrophenoxine), and quinolinecarboxylic acid (quinclorac) induced direct somatic embryogenesis in seed-derived zygotic embryo explants of sweet pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) when added to Murashige and Skoog medium with 200 mM sucrose. Optimum concentrations for embryogenesis induction were 0.40-0.45 mM and 1.15-1.30 mM for 2,4-D and centrophenoxine, respectively (in the presence of
20461758|The effects of the herbicide isoxaflutole (IFT) on tissue growth and the detection of green fluorescent protein (GFP) in transgenic embryogenic soybean tissues were evaluated using image analysis. The inclusion of this "bleaching" herbicide at 3 or 10 mg l in a standard soybean embryo proliferation medium resulted in a change in tissue color from green to non-pigmented over the course of a 4-wk experiment. Although the loss in pigmentation was observed in transgenic and non-transformed control tissues, tissue growth remained unaffected. GFP expression in three different transgenic soybean clones, representing low to moderate GFP expression levels, was easily detected and quantified using image analysis following culture of the tissues on an IFT-containing medium. Quantification of GFP in tissues from the same clones cultured in the absence of IFT, however, was difficult using image analysis. After transfer of transgenic embryogenic tissue from a medium containing IFT to a medium without IFT, the growth of pigment-containing tissue resumed. The bleaching effects from this herbicide appear to be reversible and make IFT and possibly other bleaching herbicides useful in the analysis of GFP expression in tissues, where interference from chlorophyll is problematic.
20064919|Portions (1.0-1.5 cm long) of terminal shoots from selected mature trees Olea europaea L. cv. Arbequina, micrografted in one phase onto in vitro juvenile shoots, resulted in the restoration of shoot-bud proliferation and rooting competence. Although higher in vitro survival rates were obtained after a second repeated micrografting, the reinvigoration ratio of the regenerated shoots, indicated by proliferation and rooting ability, was not improved after two phases of micrografting. Thus, one-phase micrograft allows for a successful micropropagation system for olive trees. The cuttings obtained from successive pruning of plants produced through micrografting and growth in soil showed complete restoration of rooting competence, with rooting percentages similar to those of juvenile microshoots.
40981326|Tabebuia donnell-smithii is a tropical tree species that is highly important as a forest crop due to both environmental and economic benefits. Wood from these trees is in high demand, achieving up to three times the price of wood from Pinus species. Commercial plantations of this species help to reduce the pressure on natural populations; however, plantations are few in number due to the lack of domesticated varieties and the relative unavailability of seeds. Therefore, there is an urgent need for a reliable source of plantlets suitable for commercial production. In the present work, we report the clonal propagation of T. donnell-smithii from twigs collected from elite trees. Emerging axillary shoots were used as a source of expiants. Fungal contamination was a persistent problem but was partially overcome by brief exposure to low concentrations of chlorine. The stem fragments that were used as an expiant source were cultured in woody plant medium containing 30 M zeatin. This was the best condition for inducing adventitious shoot proliferation, producing 2.8 shoots per expiant. Coconut water had an additional positive effect, increasing the number of shoots per expiant by a factor of up to 3.6. The shoots were rooted in medium containing 20 M indole-3-butyric acid. Ninety-four percent of the rooted plants survived the transfer to soil.
29736196|A method was developed to initiate multiple shoots from mature nodal explants of Sida cordifolia Linn. High frequency of regeneration was achieved on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2.0 mg l 6-benzylaminopurine, 0.5 mg l -naphthalene acidic acid, 1.0 mg l adenine sulfate, and 10% (v/v) coconut milk. Multiple shoots were initiated within 21 d and the above media was capable of inducing the formation of more than 20 shoots from each explant. Regenerated shoots were successfully rooted on half-strength MS medium supplemented with 2.0 mg l indole-3-butyric acid and 3% (w/v) sucrose. Rooted plantlets were established in soil. The regenerated plantlets showed no morphological differences from the parent material. This protocol could be useful for germplasm conservation, cultivation, and genetic improvement of S. cordifolia.
20461739|Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis of 24 in vitro regenerated rye plants was performed in order to evaluate the somaclonal variation rate in this species and to identify rye genomic regions where mutations are preferentially promoted by in vitro culture processes. Regenerated plants were obtained from cell lines derived from immature embryos and plants were regenerated by somatic embryogenesis. Twenty-three regenerants showed variation when compared against sibling plants obtained from the same cell line. A total number of 887 AFLP markers were scored, and 8.8% identified the same polymorphism in plants obtained independently from different cell lines, revealing putative mutational hot spots. Using controlled crossings and analysis of the corresponding progenies, we were able to verify the genetic stability in the next generation for only five of these polymorphisms. The nucleotide sequence of the AFLP amplicon of four of the polymorphic markers was obtained, but only the sequence of two markers was clearly identified in the databases. The sequence of marker A1-303 was identified as part of a tandemly repeated sequence, the 120-bp family, which is located at telomeric regions and is widely distributed among rye chromosomes. The marker A5-375 showed high similarity with regions of Angela retrotransposons.
20171639| The effects of NaCl and CaCl on shoot regeneration from quince (Cydonia oblonga BA L29 clone) leaves were investigated. Caulogenesis was induced on in vitro-grown leaves treated for 2 d in liquid Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 11.3 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and cultured on MS gelled medium supplemented with 4.5 M thidiazuron and 0.5 M naphthaleneacetic acid. Three experiments were performed: in the first, we compared the effects of NaCl at 0, 25, 50, 100, and 200 mM in factorial combination with 3, 9, and 27 mM CaCl. In the second, NaCl was tested at 0, 5, 10, 20, 40, and 80 mM with CaCl at 0.3, 1.0, and 3.0 mM. The third experiment was carried out with the same experimental design as the second one but replacing NaCl with NaSO. Shoot regeneration was evaluated after 50 d of culturing: 25 in darkness and 25 in white light. In the first experiment, shoot regeneration was very poor and was observed only at the lower salt concentrations. In the second experiment, the percentages of caulogenic leaves were much higher, but decreased with increasing NaCl concentration. The more pronounced negative effect of the highest NaCl concentrations appeared to be partly mitigated by CaCl at 1 and 3 mM. The presence of 3 mM CaCl, in the experiment with NaSO, appeared to be even more effective in reducing the adverse effect of sodium stress on caulogenesis. This result was attributed to the lower Cl concentration in the growth medium, which resulted from replacing NaCl with NaSO. NaCl applied at low concentrations (5 and 10 mM) in combination with 3 mM CaCl exerted a favorable effect on adventitious shoot regeneration. As regards the Na and Ca interaction, when the Na/Ca ratio was below roughly 35 and 20, with NaCl and NaSO, respectively, at least 60% of leaves showed regenerating capacity, but optimal values of this ratio were not derived. 
40663786|Melaleuca alternifolia is cultivated for the production of an essential oil useful in the cosmetic and pharmaceutical industries. Despite the economic importance of this species, there is little knowledge about its in vitro propagation. The aim of this study was to establish an efficient protocol for micropropagation of M. alternifolia. With the goal of in vitro multiplication by axillary shoot proliferation, both solid and liquid MS and WPM media were tested with supplementation with BA at 0, 0.55, 1.11, 2.22, 3.33, and 4.44 M. The best result for shoot multiplication was obtained when either 0.55 M BA was added into solid MS medium or 1.11 M BA was added into liquid MS medium, with 5.6 and 11.8 shoots per expiant generated, respectively. On solid or liquid WPM medium supplemented with 0.55 M BA, the proliferation rates were 5.5 and 4.7, respectively. Three auxins (NAA, IAA, and IBA) were tested at 0.53 and 2.64 M during the rooting stage. Several sucrose concentrations (15, 30, and 45 g L) were compared to a sucrose-free medium. Rooting performances on four culture media were then compared: MS, half-strength MS (MS/2), MS+activated charcoal (AC), and MS/2+ AC. The results showed that auxin addition to culture medium is not necessary for in vitro rooting. Rooted microcuttings from different culture media were acclimatized in a greenhouse, and the survival percentage was evaluated. All shoots cultured in an auxinfree MS medium supplemented with sucrose (30 g L) produced roots, and all plants survived during acclimatization. Activated charcoal added in rooting medium reduced rooting rates.
20461759|Leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula L.) is a perennial, invasive weed used as a model to study invasive plant behavior, because molecular tools (such as a deep expressed sequence tag database and deoxyribonucleic acid microarrays) have been developed for this species. However, the lack of effective in vitro regeneration and genetic transformation systems has hampered molecular approaches to study leafy spurge. In this study, we describe an efficient in vitro regeneration system. Three highly regenerative lines were selected by screening the in vitro regeneration capabilities of stem explants of 162 seedlings. The effects of various culture conditions on in vitro regeneration were then evaluated based on explant competence to form calluses and shoots. High rates of shoot regeneration can be obtained using a growth medium containing 1 woody plant basal medium and 1 Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal salts, 1 MS vitamins, 1.11 M 6-benzylaminopurine, 1.97 M indole-3-butyric acid, and 3% sucrose, pH 5.6-5.8. After 30 d culture, multiple shoots formed either directly from the stem or indirectly from the callus. This method is a requisite for the development of genetic transformation systems for leafy spurge and may be used to develop in vitro regeneration techniques for other species in the Euphorbiaceae.
4293540|The roots of higher plants comprise a metabolically active and largely unexplored biological frontier. Some of their prime features include the ability to synthesize a remarkably diverse group of secondary metabolites, and to adjust their metabolic activities in response to different abiotic and biotic stresses. This adjustment includes the ability to exude a wide array of micro- and macromolecules into the rhizosphere and to phytoremediate toxic metals, with the potential to affect and alter the relationships between plants and both beneficial and deleterious soil-borne pathogens. In the past, research on root biology has been hampered by the underground nature of roots and the lack of suitable experimental systems to study root-root and root-microbe communications. However, recent progress in growing roots in isolation with other elements of the rhizosphere has greatly facilitated the study of root-specific metabolism and contributed to our understanding of this organ.
29736207|Echinacea, better known as purple coneflower, has received a global attention because of its increasing medicinal value. There is enormous potential for the discovery of new medicinal compounds in this species and an immediate need for techniques to facilitate the production of high quality, chemically consistent plant material for drug development and clinical trials. In vitro tissue culture of Echinacea can play a vital role in the development of novel germplasm, rapid multiplication, and genetic modifications for an enhanced phytochemical production. Recent establishment of liquid culture techniques, large-scale bioreactors, and Agrobacterium-mediated transformation are changing the production parameters of the Echinacea species. This review provides an overview of the recent developments in in vitro technologies and challenges that remain in the Echinacea biotechnology.
20065001|Cotyledonary nodes, excised cotyledons, and hypocotyl segments of six varieties of Vigna mungo and V. radiata have been tested for their morphogenic potential on media containing a range of hormonal combinations including benzyladenine, kinetin, thidiazuron (TDZ), and zeatin. Multiple shoots developed on cotyledonary node explants in all varieties tested on basal medium containing cytokinin. Presence of both the cotyledons, either full or half, resulted in a maximum number of shoots produced. Shoot bud regeneration was achieved via meristem formation on excised cotyledons on Murashige-Skoog basal medium with B vitamins supplemented with TDZ. Mature plants had normal phenotypes. V. mungo var. PS1 and V. radiata var. Pusa105 were found to be the most responsive varieties for shoot regeneration. The histology of in vitro organogenesis was studied.
4293435|Biological nitrogen fixation is the most important process in which some prokaryotic organisms fix N
20461626|The photosynthetic and carbohydrate status of an easy-to-acclimatize (EK 16-3) and a difficult-to-acclimatize (EK 11-1) genotype of Uniola paniculata L. (sea oats), a native dune species of the southeastern US, were evaluated during in vitro culture and ex vitro acclimatization. Net photosynthetic rate was eight times greater for EK 16-3 than EK 11-1 plantlets after ex vitro transfer. In vitro-produced leaves were morphologically similar to ex vitro-produced leaves and exhibited similar photosynthetic competence. EK 11-1 plantlets exhibited greater transpiration rates at the time of ex vitro transfer than EK 16-3 plantlets. However, the small magnitude of this difference, although significant, indicated that control of water loss was probably not the main cause for poor acclimatization of EK 11-1 plantlets. Carbohydrate analysis in vitro revealed that EK 16-3 plantlets utilized leaf starch reserves more rapidly than EK 11-1 plantlets. Starch utilization correlated with the development of leaves with expanded leaf blades during in vitro rooting in EK 16-3 plantlets. After ex vitro transfer, both genotypes exhibited significant decreases of starch and soluble sugar content in shoots and roots. However, the higher photosynthetic ability of shoots in EK 16-3 resulted in greater accumulation of shoot soluble sugars than EK 11-1 after 2-wk ex vitro culture. After 6-wk in vitro rooting, there were significantly higher chlorophyll and soluble protein contents, ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (rubisco) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase activities in EK 16-3 than EK 11-1 shoots. These differences also correlated with the development of anatomical and morphological leaf features in EK 16-3 similar to those of greenhouse-produced leaves.
4293323|Pollen grains of the gymnosperm species Ephedra distachya and Pinus wallichiana germinated abundantly on the in vitro cultured placentae of the angiosperm species Nicotiana tabacum, Melandrium album and Allium moly. Some P. wallichiana pollen tubes entered the micropyles of M. album. Embryological observations of cross-pollinated M. album ovules 2 or 3 d after cross-pollination revealed the presence of pollen tube remnants within the embryo sacs. Karyological disturbances in the two- and three-celled proembryos and endosperm nuclei indicated their probable hybrid origin. In some crosses, gynogenetic haploid proembryos were also noticed.
29736186|The objective of this study was to determine if the growth of sweet orange (Citrus sinensis) (L.) Osbeck cv. 'Valencia') nonembryogenic callus could be regulated and controlled via the mineral nutrient components of the medium. The 14 salts comprising Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium were subdivided into five component groups. These five groups constituted the independent fators in the design. A five-dimensional hypervolume consituted the experimental design space. Design points were selected algorithmically by D-optimality criteria to sample of the design space. Growth of the callus at each design point was measured as % increase of fresh weight at 14 d. An analysis of variance was conducted and a response surface polynomial model generated. Model validation was conducted by mining the polynomial for design points to two rergions"MS-like" growth and MS+25% growth and comparing callus growth to predicted growth. Five of the eight selected MS-like points and three of the six MS+25% growth points validated, indicating regions within the design space where growth was equivalent to MS, but the salt combinations were substantially different from MS, and a smaller region where growth exceeded MS by greather that 25%. NHNO and Fe were identifed as important factors affecting callus growth. A second experiment was conducted were NHNO and Fe were varied, thus creating a two-dimensional slice through the region of greatest callus growth and provided increase resolution of the response.
4293159| -glucuronidase (GUS) expression driven with different promoter constructs was quantitatively and histologically compared in peanut leaf tissue following microprojectile bombardment. X-Gluc staining patterns varied with the construct used. Tissues bombarded with the pAC2GUS construct had larger foci and a greater percentage of area staining blue. pEmuGN exhibited the greatest numbers of blue spots compared to pAC2GUS and pTRA140. Histological evaluations of blue staining foci showed a diffusion gradient of blue precipitate from a central, prominently-staining cell outward to as many as seven cell layers. The intensity of X-gluc product in centrally-staining cells varied. Gold microprojectile particles were usually located within the three surface cell layers. Depending on the plasmid construct, 72-90% of the centrally-staining cells had at least one gold particle. However, the presence of GUS expression did not appear to require a microprojectile within the nucleus, which was observed in 37% or fewer of the centrally-staining cells. With the pAC2GUS construct, staining patterns varied with location within leaflets and had an "edge effect," i.e., blue spots were frequently larger at the margin versus central regions. This enhanced activity could be anticipated with an actin promoter in the more mitotically active marginal leaf cells. Total GUS activity as determined by fluorometric analyses was correlated with the percentage of X-gluc stained area. The pAC2GUS construct exhibited the highest total GUS activity among the three constructs. 
4293610| A procedure for the regeneration of 'paradise tree' (Melia azedarach, Meliaceae) plants from immature zygotic embryos via somatic embryogenesis was developed. Somatic embryos were induced from explants cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 0.45, 4.54, or 13.62 M thidiazuron. Histological examination revealed that somatic embryos were induced directly from the explants. Further development of somatic embryos was accomplished with Murashige and Skoog medium at quarter-strength with 3% sucrose. A large number of plants were regenerated from somatic embryos and successfully established in soil in a greenhouse. These plants are morphologically similar to those of seed-derived plants. This system may be beneficial for mass propagation as well as for genetic manipulation of the 'paradise tree'. 
4293828| Tylophora indica (Burm. f.) Merrill is a threatened medicinal climber distributed in the forests of northern and peninsular India. An efficient and reproducible protocol for high-frequency callus regeneration from immature leaf explants of T. indica was developed. Organogenic callus formation from immature leaf pieces was obtained by using Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 7 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 1.5 M 6-benzyladenine. On this medium 92% explants produced callus. The optimal hormone combination for plantlet regeneration was 8 M thidiazuron, at which shoot regeneration was obtained from 100% of the cultures, with an average of 66.7 shoots per culture. Histological studies of the regenerative callus revealed that shoot buds were originated from the outermost regions. For root formation, half-strength MS medium supplemented with 3 M indole-3-butyric acid was used. Plants were transferred to soil, where 92% survived after 3 mo. of acclimatization. 
20065037|Movement of pests to non-host crops due to resistance of their host plants is discussed. We report the simultaneous control of the European corn borer (Ostrinia nubilalis) and protection of transgenic rice (Oryza sativa) from the damages of this non-host pest. Indica rice Basmati 370 variety was genetically engineered via the Agrobacterium-mediated system for expression of Bacillus thuringiensis (cry1Ab and cry1Ac), hygromycin resistance (hpt) and -glucuronidase (gus) genes. Molecular analysis of R0 and R1 progeny plants confirmed the integration, transcription and translation of all transgenes, with a 100% cointegration of linked genes. Southern blot analysis revealed the integration of transgenes in the range of one to three copy numbers. Northern blots revealed the presence of intact, full-length transcripts of the cry1Ab and cry1Ac. The expression of Cry1Ab and Cry1Ac was estimated up to 0.1% of total soluble protein. Inheritance of the introduced genes to R1 progeny was found to be in agreement with the Mendelian ratio in most of the transgenic lines. Bioassays, feeding of R1 progeny, of four independent transgenic lines, showed high levels of resistance to the European corn borer. Transgenic lines showed 100% mortality 5 d after the infestation in the bioassay experiments.
41318704|The ability to create artificial gene-clusters for genetic transformation could facilitate the development of crops with multiple engineered traits, or with traits which result from the expression of multiple genes. A simple method to assemble artificial gene-clusters was developed by designing a multiple cloning site consisting of an array of homing endonuclease cleavage sites into a single vector. These enzymes are also known as intron-or intein-encoded endonucleases, and have very long recognition sequences, which makes them very rare cutters. The resulting vectors are pUGA for microprojectilemediated transformation, and pUGA2 for Agrooaciermm-mediated transformation. In addition, a series of unidirectional shuttle vectors containing various combinations of homing endonuclease restriction sites was constructed. Gene cassettes can be cloned into individual shuttles, and then transferred to either pUGA or pUGA2 to construct artificial gene-clusters. To test the feasibility of this approach, a six-gene cluster was constructed and transformed into soybean via microprojectile bombardment and into tobacco via Agrobacterium. The genes were assayed for expression in both the T and T generations for three independent transgenics. Up to five of the six genes were expressed. Additional changes to the construction of individual gene cassettes may improve the frequency with which all genes in the cluster are expressed.
4293142|Ethyl methane sulphonate (EMS) is a potential mutagen to induce lincomycin resistance in Capsicum annuum. Mutagenized cotyledons were cultured on shoot regenerating medium containing lincomycin (
42568798|Lilium candidum L., commonly known as the Madonna lily, is a wild Lilium species with medicinal properties and excellent potential as an ornamental crop, but one that has been scarcely investigated. The aim of this research was to study (1) tissue culture propagation of L. candidum bulblets, (2) early bulblet development, and (3) the effect of temperature and bulblet weight on bulblet and plant growth and meristem development. An investigation of the effect of explant type and temperature on in vitro bulblet propagation showed that scales were the most efficient expiants for in vitro propagation and that exposing the regenerating bulblets to 15C for 4 wk increased bulblet weight but reduced the number of bulblets produced. For bulblets planted in soil after 12 wk of exposure to 15C or 25C, the fastest growth was observed in the bulblets that had been exposed to 15C and that had a larger initial size. Histological examination showed that young in vitro-grown bulblets had a rudimentary meristem comprising few cells with no layer organization. After 12 wk of growth, all bulblets showed a layered meristem, regardless of bulblet size or exposure to 15C. However, an increased amount of leaf primordia was detected in larger bulblets. Furthermore, the histological examination revealed that in L. candidum, as opposed to other lily species, there had been no real "phase change" in the meristem and that the phase change from juvenile to vegetative adult occurred at a much later stage in L. candidum than in other species.
4293894|Shoot cultures of apple cv. Pinova were contaminated with faint pink pigmented yeast. Yeast isolates were identified as Rhodotorula slooffiae with standard physiological methods and molecular analysis. Growth of isolated yeasts was tested against different fungicides. The following fungicides inhibited the growth of yeast isolates, and were not phytotoxic to apple shoots at concentrations lower than the minimal phytotoxic concentrations (MPC): ProClin[REGISTERED TRADE MARK SIGN] 300, mancozeb, triforine, myclobutanil, thiabendazole, mancozeb + zoxamid, and silver nitrate. Some fungicides inhibited growth of yeasts, but were phytotoxic. These included miconazole, PPM[TRADE MARK SIGN], copper sulfate, potassium sorbate, and cycloheximide. Benomyl was not phytotoxic, but was effective o nly at high doses. Decontamination of shoots was achieved using a combination of two treatments. Shoots were first soaked in half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) liquid medium containing silver nitrate (
4292952| Embryogenic suspension culture tissue of soybean (Glycine max Merrill.) was bombarded with particles coated with plasmid DNAs encoding hygromycin resistance and -glucuronidase (GUS). One to two weeks after bombardment, embryogenic tissue was placed in a liquid proliferation medium containing hygromycin. Four to six weeks after bombardment, lobes of yellow-green, hygromycin-resistant tissue, which began as outgrowths on brown clumps of hygromycin-sensitive tissue, were isolated and cultured to give rise to clones of transgenic embryogenic material. In vivo GUS assays of hygromycin-resistant clones showed that the early outgrowths could be negative, sectored, or positive for GUS activity. Transgenic, fertile plants could be routinely produced from the proliferating transgenic embryogenic clones. Southern hybridization analyses confirmed stable transformation and indicated that both copy number and integration pattern of the introduced DNA varied among independently transformed clones. Hybridization analysis of DNA from progeny plants showed genetic linkage of multiple copies of introduced DNA. An average of three transgenic clones were obtained per bombardment making this procedure very suitable for transformation of soybean. 
20461683|Node and internode explants of Mallotus repandus were precultured on basal medium (BM: Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 3% sucrose and 0.55% Agargel) for 0-18 d before culture on shoot induction Medium (SIM: BM added with 4.44 M of benzylaminopurine) for 4 wk. The cultures were subsequently transferred to BM for 4 wk for shoot elongation. Node explants precultured on BM for 14 d before incubation on SIM were at an optimum for shoot regeneration with the response rate of 95%, compared to a 21% response for the control without preculture. Internode explants precultured on BM for 16 d responded with an optimal shoot formation response rate of 69%, whereas the control response rate was 6%. The maximum shoot regeneration rates were 3.10.3 and 2.70.4 shoots/responding explant in node and internode explants, respectively. This study demonstrates for the first time that shoot organogenesis can be induced from internode explants of M. repandus. Furthermore, the results suggest that the explants need to acquire competence before shoot organogenesis. Rooting was obtained by incubation of regenerated shoots on half-strength MS with 10.74 M of 1-naphthylacetic acid for a week before culture on half-strength MS for 4 wk. Regenerated plants were successfully transferred to soil.
4293877|The study of plant viruses and their interaction with the plant host has contributed greatly to our understanding of plant biology. The recent development of plant viruses as transient expression vectors has not only enhanced our understanding of virus biology and antiviral defense mechanisms in plants, but has also led to the use of plant viral-based vectors as tools for gene discovery and production of recombinant proteins in plants for control of human and animal diseases. An overview of the state-of-the-art of viral expression systems is presented, as well as examples from our laboratory on their use in identifying nuclear targeting motifs on viroid molecules and development of therapeutic proteins for control of animal diseases.
29736215|This is the first report where shoot regeneration in strawberry cultivar Chandler has been achieved simultaneously through both somatic embryogenesis and shoot bud formation. Direct somatic embryogenesis was observed in leaf discs which were cultured on medium containing MS salts + B vitamins + 2% glucose + 18.16 M thidiazuron (TDZ) and given both chilling and dark treatment for 2 wk at 42C followed by incubation at 252C under 16-h photoperiod for third wk. After 3 wk, these explants were then subcultured on medium containing MS salts + B vitamins + 2% glucose and incubated under 16-h photoperiod at 252C for further growth and development. Direct regeneration via de novo shoot bud formation was observed in leaf disks which were given dark treatment and were cultured on medium containing MS salts + B vitamins + 2% glucose supplemented with 9.08 M TDZ. There was a synergistic effect of photoperiod, dark, and chilling treatments on somatic embryogenesis, whereas chilling treatment had an inhibitory effect on shoot organogenesis.
20064817|A system for the regeneration of spinach (Spinacia oleracea L.) from mature dry seed explants has been established. The response of two commercial spinach cultivars, 'Grandstand' and 'Baker,' was examined. Callus proliferation was most prominent on MS medium supplemented with 9.3 M of 6-furfurylaminopurine (kinetin) and 3.39 M 2,4-dichlorophen-oxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Adventitious shoot formation was observed within 8 wk after callus was transferred onto regeneration medium. Shoot regeneration was best from callus induced on 9.3 M kinetic and 4.56 M 2,4-D. The regeneration medium contained 9.3 M kinetin, 0.045 M 2,4-D, and 2.89 M gibberellic acid (GA). Shoots were rooted on hormone-free medium, and plants grown in a greenhouse showed normal phenotype. This system is beneficial in rapid propagation of spinach plants, particularly when only a limited number of seeds are available.
25623038|A rapid and efficient regeneration procedure via direct organogenesis from mature embryo axes of ten land-races of bambara groundnut has been developed. Embryo axis cultured on hormone-free Murashige and Skoog (MS; Murashige and Skoog, Physiol Plant 15:473-497, 1962) medium produced only single plants, while multiple shoots were produced at the nodal and apical regions of explants within 3-4 wk of culture on MS medium plus B5vitamins (Gamborg et al., Exp Cell Res 50:151-158, 1968) and supplemented with cytokinins such as 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP), kinetin, zeatin, and thidiazuron alone or in combination with -naphthaleneacetic acid. BAP proved to be the most effective cytokinin tested in this study. The shootforming ability of embryo axis was influenced by BAP concentration, and optimal BAP concentration was determined. Vertical orientation of explants on the medium was significantly better than the horizontal position for shoot induction. Genotypes also showed significant differences in their regeneration in terms of percent response (28.773.83-77.7010.64%) as well as an average number of shoots per explant (5.44-12.63). Regenerated shoots elongated in the same medium and rooted upon transfer to full-strength MS medium devoid of growth regulators. Regenerated plants were successfully transferred to soil and all surviving plants were morphologically normal.
23016749|Inter-specific somatic hybrids of leaf mustard (Brassica juncea) and broccoli (Brassica oleracea) were established to introduce cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) and Verticillium dahliae Kleb. resistance from broccoli to leaf mustard. Protoplasts isolated from hypocotyls and cotyledons of inbred lines of leaf mustard and broccoli were fused using 40% (w/v) polyethelene glycol and then cultured in modified k8p medium supplemented with 0.2 mg/l 2,4-dichlorophenoxi-acetic acid, 0.5 mg/l 6-benzyladenine (BA), 0.1 mg/l naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), and 0.1 mg/l kinetin (Kin), and 0.4 M mannitol as osmoticum. At the eight- to ten-cell stage, divided cells were transferred to Kao's basal medium supplemented with 0.3 M sucrose as carbon source and 0.1% agarose, 2 mg/ l BA, 2 mg/l zeatin (ZEA), 1 mg/l NAA, and 0.5 mg/l Kin for callus proliferation. After 35 d, when small calli reached 23 mm in diameter, calli were transferred to regeneration medium containing 5 mg/l ZEA and 2 mg/l indole-3-acetic acid. The chromosome numbers of putative somatic hybrids varied from 46 to 54. A total of ten plants showed a 0.5-kb, CMS-specific band, while two regenerated plants showed a missing band similar to that of leaf mustard by polymerase chain reaction amplification using Ogura CMS-specific primers. Hybrid state was confirmed by random amplified polymorphic DNA analysis. Regenerated plants had normal petals and stamens, but only two plants produced pollen and set seed.
4293454|A protocol for in vitro shoot regeneration from cotyledon explants of Citrullus lanatus (Thunb.) Matsum. & Nakai cv. Sugar Baby is described. The cotyledons excised from 7-d-old aseptic seedlings showed the highest percentage of shoots on Murashige and
20171617| Hypocotyl explants of melon (Cucumis melo L.) are capable of regenerating multiple shoots on Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium, augmented with 4.4 M benzyladenine. Regeneration from the hypocotyl is much more rapid than the more commonly reported regeneration from cotyledonary explants, producing shoots within 2 wk compared to more than a month required for cotyledon explants. The rapid regeneration response depends on the presence of a fragment of the cotyledon remaining attached to the hypocotyl. Controls were performed to ensure that the regeneration was not due to the presence of the shoot apical bud of the melon seedling after explant production. Scanning electron microscopy revealed that microsurgery to remove the apical bud left no excess bud material. Regeneration from the proximal part of the hypocotyl was due to production of a new shoot apical meristem, observed by histology. The apical meristem can be produced before leaf primordia in regeneration from the hypocotyl, in contrast to the regeneration process from the melon cotyledon. 
41432833|Chrysanthemum is one of the most important commercial cut flowers in the world. Early-flowering cultivars are required to produce quality chrysanthemum flowers with a lower cost of production. To shorten the vegetative growth phase of chrysanthemum, three AP1-like genes from Asteraceae were constitutively overexpressed in 80 independent transgenic chrysanthemum lines. All lines were characterized by PCR and RT-PCR and demonstrated that overexpression of compositae AP1-homologs in transgenic chrysanthemum under long-day conditions had no effect on plant development compared to non-transgenic controls. Conversely, under short-day conditions, transgenic plants commenced bud initiation 2 wk earlier than non-transgenic chrysanthemum plants. Subsequently, transgenic chrysanthemum flowers showed color earlier and resulted in full opening of inflorescences 3 wk prior to non-transgenic control plants.These results open new possibilities for genetic improvement and breeding of chrysanthemum cultivars.
20064955|A rapid micropropagation system was established for Holostemma annulare (Roxb.) K. Schum., (H. ada-kodien R. Br. ex Schult; Asclepiadaceae), a rare medicinal plant. Shoot tips (0.5-0.8 cm) and terminal and basal nodes (1.0-1.5 cm) harvested from actively growing shoots of conventionally raised plants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with various concentrations of 6-benzyladenine (BA) and -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Multiple shoot formation (3.8) was observed in 68% of basal nodes cultured on medium with optimum concentration of 4.43 M BA and 0.54 M NAA after 8 wk. Terminal nodes were not suitable for inducing multiple shoots. Irrespective of the orientation (vertical/horizontal), all shoot tip explants responded with a single shoot in all the combinations of plant growth regulators tried. Effects of other cytokinins (kinetin and 2-isopentenyladenine) and auxins [indole-3-acetic acid and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA)] to enhance the regeneration potential of basal nodes were analyzed. Shoots were multiplied by subculture of basal nodes and stumps (the original explant tissue free of shoots, but with remnant axillary meristem and two or three protruding buds) in a reduced concentration of BA (2.21 M) and NAA (0.27 M). Liquid medium for multiplication was found to be ineffective due to a high degree of hyperhydricity. To make the multiplication process cost effective, culture bottles with polypropylene caps were used for multiplication. The best root induction (75%) and survival (80%) was achieved on 0.5 strength MS medium supplemented with 1.48 M IBA. Field-established plants had uniform growth habit traits in terms of height of plants and number, length, and weight of the tuberous roots.
20064984|Somatic embryogenesis in American ginseng (Panax quinquefolium L.) was investigated from three explant sources (root, leaf and epicotyl) with Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing different growth regulators. Mature roots and leaves obtained from 3- to 5-yr-old field-grown plants, and seedling leaves and epicotyls from plantlets grown in vitro, were evaluated. From root and epicotyl explants, callus development was optimal with 3,6-dichloro-o-anisic acid (dicamba) (9.0 M) and kinetin (KN) (5.0 M) as the growth regulators. When these calluses were transferred after 3 mo. to dicamba alone (9.0 M), somatic embryo formation was observed at an average frequency of 15.6% in root explants after an additional 3 mo., and 2% in epicotyl explants after an additional 6 mo. No plantlets were recovered because the embryos germinated to form shoots with no roots. From leaf explants, callus growth was optimal with -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) at 10.0 M and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) at 9.0 M. Somatic embryos developed on this medium, with the highest frequency (40%) obtained after 3 mo. from seedling-leaf explants. Calluses on mature leaves formed somatic embryos after 7 mo. with NAA/2,4-D at an average frequency of 30%. Transfer of these somatic embryos to 6-benzyladenine/gibberellic acid (4.4/2.9 M) promoted shoot development but no roots were observed. Up to 100% of germination was observed within 6 wk on half-strength MS salts containing activated charcoal (1%) and on NAA/2,4-D (5.0/4.5 M) with charcoal (1%). On the latter medium, somatic embryos enlarged and frequently gave rise to new somatic embryos after a brief callusing phase. The embryos germinated through a two-stage process, involving the elongation of the root followed by the formation of a shoot. The highest recovery of ginseng plantlets from germinated embryos was 61.0%. Following transfer to potting medium and maintenance under conditions of high humidity and low light intensity, the plantlets elongated and developed new leaves. A high percentage (50%) of these plants have been acclimatized to soil.
42568800|Nodal segment explants of Ilex paraguariensis, collected from greenhouse-grown plants, were found to contain endophytic bacteria. After culturing in bioreactors, 16 rRNA gene analyses and analytical profile index biochemical tests were used to identify these bacteria as Stenotrophomonas malthophilia. The presence of bacterial cells in the intercellular spaces of stem cortical parenchyma was detected in histological sections by scanning electron microscopy. A range of commercial isothiazolone biocides were tested for their ability to repress the growth of Gramnegative bacteria grown in liquid media during the micropropagation phase. The addition of 0.75 mll Delcide TG (5-chloro-2-methyl-4-isothiazolin-3-one + 2-methyl-4-isothiazolin-3-one, 1.05% and 0.45%, respectively) to the culture media resulted in 100% visibly clean cultures, with no suppression of shoot growth.
20171632| Cell suspensions were established from calluses with embryogenic structures obtained from young male flowers of the hybrid cultivar FHIA-21 (Musa sp. AAAB group). Different concentrations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid tested produced similar tendencies in all cases. In the subsequent phase, these cell suspensions then formed somatic embryos with best results at a cell density of 20%, forming 799.5  2.5 embryos from only 200 l of cell suspension. However, germination was best with embryos produced at 15% cell density. Plant recovery frequencies were as high as 81.5% in this case. Regenerated plants were taken to the acclimatization phase for conversion and future evaluation on somaclonal variation. 
4293794|Eighteen imbibition treatments with differing parameters of light conditions, temperature and duration were applied to jack pine seeds. After imbibition, embryos were excised and cultured in a liquid medium for 4 wk under continuous agitation. At the end of the culture period, the embryos were classified according to five categories: nodule-forming, callus-forming, nodule plus callus-forming, white (non-responsive), and necrotic. Our results showed variation in the in vitro responsiveness of the embryos for the three parameters of imbibition and interactions among them. Three statistical models were tested to analyze the data on nodule formation, and two of them showed that the interaction between time and temperature, and between time and the combined variable temperature/light, were significant, while the light and duration variables had a significant effect only as single factors. The different morphogenic responses observed might indicate specific metabolic requirements of the embryos for the different developmental pathways. Afterwards, nine imbibition treatments were selected to evaluate the effects of the three parameters on the cell cycle and absolute DNA amount per nucleus. Following imbibition the number of cells in the G0-G1 phase decreased compared to the cells in dry seed, while the number of cells increased in the G2 phase after all the treatments except one. The percentage of cells in the different cell cycle phases varied significantly among the treatments. DNA amount fluctuated from 35.5 to 40.37 pg per nucleus. Compared to dry seeds with 40.19 pg DNA per nucleus, embryos from four imbibition treatments showed a pronounced decrease in the DNA by 5.9-11.8%. This might indicate underreplication of DNA sequences and reflect DNA plasticity with regards to imbibition and environmental factors.
42568878|This study aimed to establish whether protocormlike bodies (PLBs) of hybrid Cymbidium Twilight Moon 'Day Light' could be cultured on paper bridges to remove tissue and medium browning and enhance growth. In addition, the effects of two antioxidants (ascorbic acid [AA] and -tocopherol [AT]) and activated charcoal (AC) on tissue and medium browning were evaluated. Half-PLBs were cultured on Whatman No. 1 paper bridges in 10 ml of medium containing AC, AA, or AT. The production and development of new PLBs was inferior to that on standard agar-based solid medium when half-PLBs were used. The addition of 1 g/l AC, 10 mg/l AA, or 25 mg/l AT did not affect the formation of new PLBs from half-PLBs, but tissue or medium browning was also not observed. Encapsulated PLBs developed from half-PLBs germinated on medium containing AC or antioxidants. This research provides a simple but effective chemical means, through the use of AC or antioxidants, of avoiding tissue or medium browning without negatively impacting the growth and productivity of orchid PLBs. The use of paper bridges, however, significantly reduced PLB-related growth and development parameters relative to agar-based medium.
20171629|To determine the degree of insect resistance in transgenic plants, different bioassays are used which typically use either whole plants or small pieces of leaves or stems of transgenic plants, following culture under greenhouse conditions. An in vitro insect-feeding bioassay is presented which permits the infestation of transgenic plantlets with newly hatched larvae from the striped stem borer. The bioassay consists of the germination of rice seeds in vitro using Murashige and Skoog medium in test tubes, and then infestation of each 3-4 cm long seedling with one neonate larva obtained from surface-sterilized eggs of Chilo suppressalis. The infested in vitro plantlets are kept in culture rooms at 25C for several days and then the seedling damage and the growth of the larvae are analyzed. Senia (japonica variety) homozygous transgenic rice plants were used for these experiments. The plants were transformed with either the cry1B or the maize proteinase inhibitor (mpi) genes. Both genes confer resistance to Chilo suppressalis. With non-transformed plants the larvae grew and developed normally, feeding on the small rice plantlets. In contrast, with cry1B plants, the neonate larvae died during the first days of the infestation. These plantlets recovered completely and developed similarly to the non-infested control plants. With transgenic plants transformed with the mpi gene, the neonate larvae did not die but grew more slowly compared with the controls. Thus, this in vitro insect-feeding bioassay is a rapid and easy method to detect the resistance of cry and mpi transgenic plants to stem borers such as Chilo suppressalis.
29736166|The in vitro culture responses from different explants of a race-specific resistant cultivar (Red Mexican) and a race-susceptible cultivar (Palmea) to halo-blight pathogen (Pseudomonas syringae pv. phaseolicola) were studied. Two kinds of filtrate obtained from a phaseolotoxin producer wild type and a non-producer mutant of P. syringae pv. phaseolicola race-7 were used. Callus formation of Red Mexican was significantly reduced in the presence of phaseolotoxin. Bud-shoot growth was more sensitive than callus formation to other metabolites present in the pathogen filtrate, but the presence of phaseolotoxin in the media showed a positive correlation between resistance to halo blight race-7 pathogen and bud-shoot growth. Our results indicate that differential in vitro responses are influenced by the plant genotype and by the metabolite composition and concentration of the filtrate.
4293510|Creeping bluestem (Schizachyrium scoparium (Michx.) Nash var. stoloniferum (Nash) J. Wipff) embryogenie callus growing on solid medium was used to establish a cell suspension culture in Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with
4293082|In order to identify the physiological and biochemical events leading to the negative effects of the presence of sucrose in culture medium on the photosynthetic capacity of plantlets cultivated in vitro, time course changes in photosynthesis, metabolite pool sizes, and ribulose-l,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (EC 4.1.1.39) activity were investigated in strawberry (Fragaria x ananassa Duch. cv. Kent) plantlets following their transfer to medium with or without sucrose. When the plantlets grown in medium without sucrose were transferred to a similar medium with
4293705|Degradative changes in tissue during protoplast isolation were a contributing factor to low protoplast yields in the salt-sensitive Grevillea arenaria (R. Brown) and the salt-tolerant Grevillea ilicifolia (R. Brown). Protein and malondialdehyde content decreased significantly during the protoplast isolation procedure. Acid and neutral proteases were identified, and high acid protease activities were correlated to low protoplast yields. Acid phosphatase, catalase, polyphenol oxidase and lipoxygenase activities increased in both Grevillea species with cell wall digestion. High activities of catalase and low levels of polyphenol oxidase were correlated with high protoplast yields. Levels of acid phosphatase and lipoxygenase were not good indicators of final protoplast yields. The addition of the anti-oxidant, reduced glutathione, and the acid protease inhibitor, pepstatin A, significantly increased protoplast yields. Strategies were identified to minimize deleterious degradative effects during the isolation of protoplasts, including strict pH control, testing a number of cell wall digestion enzymes, and the addition of anti-oxidative metabolites and protease inhibitors.
4293593|Cryptic gene regulatory elements are inactive at their native locations in the genome but are fully functional when positioned adjacent to genes in transgenic plants. Although they are widespread among diverse organisms, they have not yet been described in gymnosperms. tCUP is a strong constitutive cryptic promoter from tobacco that harbors transcriptional enhancers, a TATA-less core promoter, and a translational enhancer. tCUP is active in all conifer species tested including white spruce, white pine, Loblolly pine, larch, and Douglas fir. The tCUP enhancers are fully active in white spruce in combination with the tCUP or 35S core promoters. The core promoter is proportionally stronger in white spruce than in angiosperms. It is dependent on an Inr sequence at the transcription start site; however, a cryptic core promoter was found in the tCUP leader sequence that harbors another potential Inr site. The leader sequence is essential for full tCUP activity in white spruce and it can be combined with other promoters, such as the 35S promoter, to elevate activity further. Stable and constitutive expression of tCUP is demonstrated in transgenic trees of white spruce. tCUP provides an alternative system for the expression of cloned genes in conifer species.
4293475|An efficient protocol was developed to regenerate entire plants from immature embryos of elite genotypes of rye as a prerequisite to plant transformation. Three winter genotypes and one spring genotype were tested using both immature and mature embryos as explants. Four types of callus initiation media and five kinds of regeneration media were tested in all possible combinations. Immature embryos gave much higher levels of plant regeneration than mature embryos, but mature embryos could be induced to regenerate plants for all genotypes and media tested, although at low levels. A minimum stage of embryo development must be reached before embryos can be cultured successfully. Genotypic effects were less pronounced than those reported for inbred cereal species such as wheat and barley, but there was an effect of genotype on percentage of callus formation. There was a significant interaction between genotype and initiation media. Composition of the initiation media affected both the percentage of callus formation from embryos and subsequent frequencies of plant regeneration. Composition of the regeneration media had no effect on level of plant regeneration. Immature embryos of all genotypes tested could be induced to produce 90-100% callus on appropriate initiation media and all regenerated shoots from approximately one-half to three-quarters of the calluses produced.
23016695|In this study, the D-serine ammonia lyase (dsdA) gene from Escherichia coli was evaluated as a selectable marker for maize transformation. Plants are incapable of utilizing the D-form of most amino acids, and D-serine has recently been demonstrated to be phytoinhibitory to plant growth. D-Serine ammonia lyase detoxifies D-serine via a substrate-specific reaction to pyruvate, ammonia, and water. D-Serine inhibits germination of isolated maize immature embryos and growth of embryogenic callus from wild-type plants at concentrations about approx. 215 mM. Transgenic plants were recovered in the presence of D-serine in tissue culture media with dsdA as the selection marker at efficiencies comparable to using a mutated acetohydroxy acid synthase selection marker gene and selection in the presence of imidazolinone herbicides. Immature embryos infected with an Agrobacterium strain containing an acetohydroxy acid synthase gene construct without dsdA did not yield any transgenic events on the selection medium with 10 mM D-serine, indicating that D-serine provided selection tight enough to prevent escapes. Molecular analysis confirmed the integration of the dsdA gene into the genome of the transgenic plants. No adverse phenotypes were observed in the greenhouse, and expression of the dsdA marker had no affect on agronomic characteristics or grain yield in multi-location field trials. Seed compositional analysis demonstrated no significant differences in the contents of seed protein, starch fatty acids, fiber, phytic acid, and free amino acids between transgenic and non-transgenic control plants. These data indicate that the dsdA gene is properly expressed in maize and the D-serine ammonia lyase (DSDA) enzyme functions appropriately to metabolize D-serine during in vitro selection. Preliminary safety assessments indicated that no adverse afffects would be expected if humans were exposed to the DSDA protein in the diet from an allergenicity or toxicity perspective. The dsdA gene in combination with phytoinhibitory levels of D-serine represents a new and effective selectable marker system for maize transformation.
4293154| Two sugarbeet (Beta vulgaris L.) genotypes, REL-1 and REL-2, were used to measure the level of somatic embryo and shoot production from hormone-autonomous callus plated under varied nutrient medium combinations of abscisic acid with the growth regulators 6-benzyladenine, 1-naphthaleneacetic acid, or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, with eight sole nitrogen sources, or with different sucrose concentrations. Clone REL-2 produced embryos up to 35-fold more frequently than clone REL-1. Inclusion of abscisic acid at some concentrations consistently improved embryo production in all experiments and was observed to stimulate shoot production. At some concentrations, 1-naphthaleneacetic acid as well as urea and glutamine stimulated greater embryo production over the control, but only for REL-1, for which there was greater room for improvement. Three and five percent sucrose were superior to 1, 7, and 9%. Higher initial 6-benzyladenine concentration [in the range 0, 0.1-1.0 mg/L (0.44-4.44 M)] was associated with lower embryo production but greater shoot regeneration for both clones. REL-2 was significantly better than REL-1 in shoot regeneration. The range of embryo production was more than 35-fold between genotypes, whereas the range of physiological effects was no greater than 10-fold. REL-2 has been released to sugarbeet researchers because of its superior embryogenic and shoot regeneration abilities for application in biotechnology. 
4293657|Cotyledons excised from seedlings of Cajanus cajan (pigeonpea) were grown on media containing cytokinins (6-benzyladenine, zeatin, and zeatin riboside) and an allied compound, thidiazuron. With the exception of zeatin riboside, initial response in terms of induction of organized structures was very high. However, subsequent regeneration of shoots from cotyledon explants was very poor. Anatomical studies on the regenerating explants were undertaken to study the pattern of morphogenesis. Cytokinins and thidiazuron induced divisions in the epidermal and sub-epidermal cell layers leading to the formation of primary protrusions on the surface. This was followed by the development of foci of high meristematic activity either on the surface or within the primary protrusions. These foci differentiated into embryo-like structures or shoot meristem-like structures. Mostly aberrant shoots, with poorly developed apical meristems, regenerated from these structures.
4293534|The relationship between in vitro bulbification and peroxidase activities of garlic (Allium sativum L.) was studied. Two stages could be distinguished during in vitro bulb formation characterized by the peroxidase activity, isoenzymatic patterns especially of the soluble fractions, dry weight, and bulbification index (BI). The first stage, called the morphogenic stage, started after planting until 30 d of culture with a maximum soluble peroxidase activity, BI = 1-0.5 and low dry weight. At that time axillary buds preformed at the base of the leaves grew and the in vitro bulb was generated. The second stage (filling in and bulb maturation) started when the BI reached 0.5 at 30 d of the ontogenic cycle, as a result of the bulb assimilate accumulation phenomenon. During the morphogenic stage the soluble peroxidase activity was maximun and the zymograms showed higher intensity bands. The second stage presented anodic ionic peroxidases and substantial increase in staining of the anodic covalent peroxidase fraction. The putative role of the different isoforms of peroxidases in relation to the bulbification process is discussed.
25623013|A simple and efficient method for multiplication of vanilla (Vanilla planifolia) was developed using in vitro fragmented explants (IFEs) as propagules. IFEs were obtained after dissecting apices from in vitro propagated clusters of plantlets, by cutting the remaining base of these plant clusters into segments of about 1 cm in length. After 4 months of culture on multiplication medium, 100% of IFEs produced up to 15 new shoots per explant, providing an efficient additional method for in vitro propagation of vanilla that maximizes the use of available material. Cryopreservation of apices from in vitro grown plants was achieved using the droplet vitrification protocol. Maximum survival (30%) and further regeneration (10%) of new shoots were obtained for apices derived from clusters of in vitro plantlets produced from microcuttings through a three-step droplet vitrification protocol: 1-d preculture of apices on solid MS medium with 0.3 M sucrose; loading with a 0.4 M sucrose + 2 M glycerol solution for 20-30 min; and exposure to plant vitrification solution PVS3 for 30 min at room temperature. Even though the cryogenic protocol needs to be optimized to improve results, this work represents the first successful report of cryopreservation of vanilla apices.
20064868|By use of a method for regenerating wheat plants (Triticum aestivum L.) from cells from long-term suspension culture, the chromosome complement and stability of cultured cells of cv. Mustang were examined. Massive chromosome restructuring and genomic rearrangements were detected by HCl-KOH-Giemsa banding techniques. Chromosome structural variations involved mainly heterochromatin and centromeric regions. These included B genome chromosome elimination; heterochromatin amplification; megachromosomes and extrachromosomal DNA particles; translocations and deletions; telocentric, dicentric, and multicentric chromosomes; and somatic pairing and crossing over. At least 65 break-fusion sites were identified. Most of the sites were located in the B genome chromosomes (42 sites, 64.6%); 36.9% (20 sites) were located in the A genome chromosomes; and the fewest (3 sites, 4.6%) were detected in the D genome. Most of the chromosome break-fusion is in the heterochromatin and centromeric regions. The B genome chromosomes appeared to be eliminated nonrandomly, and the stability of the genome may vary among the genotypes and depend on culture duration. We also checked chromosome number of 1-year-old shoot-competent cells. Only 20% of the cells still had 2n = 42 chromosomes. Most of the cells (60%) were hyperploid. These observed variations describe the types of tissue-culture-induced variations and suggest the unsuitability of using wheat cells from long-term cultures for genetic transformation experiments.
24596343|The effects of Ca on antioxidative enzymes and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) oxidase during adventitious rooting were investigated in mung bean (Vigna radiata). CaCl significantly promoted the formation and growth of adventitious roots. EGTA (a Ca chelator) or ruthenium red (a Ca-channel blocker) significantly inhibited root formation and growth, but these inhibitory effects could be partially reversed by CaCl. Furthermore, inclusion of 5 mM CaCl significantly increased superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity by 10% at 3 h and catalase (CAT) activity by an average of 29.6% at each time point. CaCl decreased peroxidase (POD) activity by 9.4% and 21% at 12 and 24 h, respectively, and ascorbate peroxidase (APX) activity by an average of 13.9% at each time point. These CaCl-induced changes in enzymatic activities were similar to changes caused by indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). Treatment with EGTA or ruthenium red decreased SOD activity by an average of 18.4% and 15.2%, respectively; POD activity by 27.4% and 57.6%, respectively; APX activity by 10.3% and 15.6%, respectively; and CAT activity by 19.3% and 5.2%, respectively, when compared with CaCl. In addition, CaCl increased IAA oxidase activity by an average of 5.5% beginning at 6 h, whereas EGTA significantly decreased IAA oxidase activity by 29.2%, 22.9%, and 13.5% at 6, 9, and 12 h, respectively. The inhibitory effects of EGTA could be partially suppressed by addition of CaCl. These results imply that the stimulative effect of Ca on adventitious rooting is partially related to Ca-induced changes in the activities of antioxidative enzymes and IAA oxidase.
20541056|Micropropagation has been achieved in a promising larvicidal asteraceous taxon Spilanthes acmella L. using seedling leaf explants. The explants were reared on a variety of growth regulators, namely 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 1-naphthalene acetic acid, Indole-3-butyric acid, N-benzyladenine, and kinetin either alone or in combination on Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium. The best green and compact callus was obtained on 1 M NAA and 10 M benzyladenine (BA) in 15 d. The callus on subculture to the same but fresh medium after every 30 d differentiated an average of 12.900.32 shoot buds in 50% cultures. Elongation in shoot buds occurred only if they were transferred to NAA lacking MS+BA medium. An average number of 4.220.83 shoots and 150.84 shoot buds per explant were obtained in 70.3% cultures on MS + 10 M BA in 30 d. One hundred percent excised shoots rooted in MS(1/2)+0.1 M IBA within 2 wk. The plants were gradually hardened and established in soil where they flowered and set viable seeds. The regenerated plants were morphologically similar to the field grown plants and showed 100% larvicidal activity against malaria and filarial vectors.
4293431| The xylose isomerase genes (xylA) from Thermoanaerobacterium thermosulfurogenes and Streptomyces rubiginosus were introduced and expressed in three plant species (potato, tobacco and tomato) and transgenic plants were selected on xylose-containing medium. The xylose isomerase genes were transferred to explants of the target plant by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The xylose isomerase genes were expressed under the control of the enhanced cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and the ' translation enhancer sequence from tobacco mosaic virus. In potato and tomato, xylose isomerase selection was more efficient than the established kanamycin selection. The level of enzyme activity in the regenerated transgenic plants selected on xylose was 5-25-fold higher than the enzyme activity in control plants selected on kanamycin. The xylose isomerase system enables transgenic cells to utilize xylose as a carbohydrate source. In contrast to antibiotic or herbicide resistance-based systems where transgenic cells survive on a selective medium but non-transgenic cells are killed, the xylose system is an example of a positive selection system where transgenic cells proliferate while non-transgenic cells are starved but still survive. The results show that a new selection method is established. The xylose system is devoid of the disadvantages of antibiotic or herbicide selection, and depends on an enzyme which is already being widely utilized in specific food processes and that is generally recognized as safe for use in the starch industry. 
40793216|This study investigated the induction and in vitro alkaloid yield of calluses and protocorm-like bodies (PLBs) from Pinellia ternata (Thunb.) Berit (Araceae). We planned to use this material in future studies related to the mass production of medicinally valuable compounds and regulation of alkaloid metabolism. Different combinations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 6-benzyladenine (6-BA), kinetin (Kin), and a-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) were used to induce callus and PLB formation from P.ternata tuber expiants. The results showed that three physiologically distinct calluses were induced by different combinations of 2,4-D, 6-BA, and Kin used in this study. The calluses differed in color, texture, differentiation status, and alkaloid content. The alkaloid content of the three calli types ranged from 0.0175% to 0.0293%. In comparison, the alkaloid content of field-grown tubers was 0.0072%. Many reports have indicated that 2,4-D suppresses the biosynthesis of secondary metabolites; however, our results show that 2,4-D promoted alkaloid production in Pinellia calluses. The combination of NAA+ 6-BA induced PLB formation. The PLB alkaloid content of 0.0321% was 1.1 to 1.8 times higher than the alkaloid content of the calluses and 4.5 times higher than the field-grown tubers. In conclusion, the induction of calluses and PLBs with alkaloid content greater than that of field-grown tubers indicates the potential use of these tissue culture materials for bioprocessing alkaloids from P. ternata and for the study of alkaloid metabolism.
4293604| The Scientific Research Center of Yucatn (CICY, for its Spanish acronym) was founded in November 1979 as part of an effort to decentralize scientific activities from Mexico City. Several of the research programs carried out at CICY make use of plant tissue culture techniques for their development. For this article, we have reviewed results obtained in research projects oriented towards basic plant biology questions, as well as towards the micropropagation of economically important species, and the production of secondary metabolites. 
4293058|Bacterial isolates from contaminated mint shoot cultures were characterized and identified as a preliminary step in determining an elimination treatment. The 22 bacteria were characterized using biochemical and morphological tests and subjected to sensitivity tests with four antibiotics. The isolates were compared with known organisms and assigned to genera according to similarities in characteristics. Seven isolates were analyzed by fatty acid analysis carried out by a commercial laboratory. Six were classified as Agrobacterium radiobacter; eight as Xanthomonas; one each as Pseudomonas fluorescens, Micrococcus spp., Corynebacterium spp., and Curtobacterium spp.; four could not be assigned to genera. Inhibition of growth of the bacteria by most antibiotics was best at pH 7.5. Minimal inhibitory concentration and minimal bactericidal concentrations of gentamicin, rifampicin, streptomycin sulfate, and Timentin varied with genotype.
23016588|Spanish territories contain many of the hot spots of plant biodiversity among European countries. Most of the Spanish territory is found in the Mediterranean basin and in the Canary Islands, a region of great floral singularity and diversity (Macaronesian bioregion). Therefore, an important effort must be made to contribute to its conservation. Several strategies can be considered, but seed conservation under standard conditions is the most resource-efficient method. However, the application of this methodology is not always possible for recalcitrant seeds or species for which vegetative propagation is necessary or convenient under some circumstances. Micropropagation is one of the measures suggested for preserving endangered species. During the 1990s, several in vitro culture protocols for Spanish endemics were established. The main purpose of this strategy was to obtain a considerable number of individuals to reduce the loss of natural populations. Likewise, diverse slow growth protocols were developed for this material. However, these efforts usually did not lead to the establishment of in vitro collections. The advantages and disadvantages of the in vitro conservation strategy will be reviewed for some cases. The establishment of the in vitro protocols together with the development of cryopreservation techniques created the ideal conditions to generate cryogenic collections. In this paper, we review the knowledge and experience accumulated during the last decades in micropropagation, slow growth, and cryopreservation for Spanish plant wild species. Their application in the development ex situ collections and their contribution toward an integrated system to conserve threatened species will be discussed.
23016747|Particle bombardment has been used for soybean transformation for more than 20 yr, but the integration and segregation of transgene inserts in the soybean genome have not been clearly documented. Over the past 5 yr, we processed several hundred transgenic events. In each experiment, the expression cassettes of the gene of interest (GOI) and hygromycin selectable marker gene (SMG) were co-bombarded into soybean at a 1:1 molecular ratio. More than 75% of hygromycin-resistant events also carried the GOI. Molecular analysis of transgenic plants revealed that most events carried multiple inserts of the GOI and the SMG. The GOI and the SMG were linked in selfed T1 and T2 progeny. Segregation analysis of progeny indicated that, in over 98% of the transgenic events, the multiple inserts of the GOI were integrated into the same genetic locus resulting in a 3:1 segregation ratio. Furthermore, the multiple inserts of the GOI are transmitted into succeeding generations, and no recombinants were found. These data indicate that in soybean plants, co-bombarded genes are preferentially integrated and stably segregated as a single genetic locus.
4293727|Triiodobenzoic acid (TIBA), an anti-auxin, was found to inhibit both shoot and root formation in cultured excised leaf explants of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.). The shoot formation (SF) medium used required only exogenous cytokinin
4293463|Improved in vitro tissue culture systems are needed to facilitate the application of recombinant DNA technology to the improvement of sugar beet germplasm. The effects of
4293354| Propagation and conservation of four pharmaceutically important herbs, Ocimum americanum L. syn. O. canum Sims, (hoary basil); O. basilicum L. (sweet basil); O. gratissimum L. (shrubby basil); and O. sanctum L. (sacred basil) was attempted using synthetic seed technology. Synthetic seeds were produced by encapsulating axillary vegetative buds harvested from garden-grown plants of these four Ocimum species in calcium alginate gel. The gel contained Murashige and Skoog (MS) nutrients and 1.1-4.4 M benzyladenine (BA). Shoots emerged from the encapsulated buds on all six planting media tested. However, the highest frequency shoot emergence and maximum number of shoots per bud were recorded on media containing BA. Of the six planting media tested, both shoot and root emergence from the encapsulated buds in a single step was recorded on growth regulator-free MS medium as well as on vermi-compost moistened with half-strength MS medium. Rooted shoots were retrieved from the encapsulated buds of O. americanum, O. basilicum, and O. sanctum on these two media, whereas shoots of O. gratissimum failed to root. The encapsulated buds could be stored for 60 d at 4C. Plants retrieved from the encapsulated buds were hardened off and established in soil. 
40981340|Type II maize callus of the Hill genotype can be separated into regenerable and non-regenerable types based on the visible morphology of the callus. When the nonregenerable morphotype of callus initiated 6 mo or a yr earlier was treated with from 2% to 20% polyethylene glycol (PEG; 3,350 molecular weight) for three subculture periods of 21 d each, the morphotype changed to regenerable, and the callus did become highly regenerable. The PEG treatments did not improve the plant regeneration ability of the regenerable morphotype or of an old culture initiated 4 yr earlier.
20064835|The objectives of the present research were: a) to develop an efficient soybean embryogenic regeneration system characterized by a high frequency of explant response and a large number of somatic embryos per explant; b) to evaluate the factors affecting somatic embryogenesis via somatic embryo cycling; and c) to identify the origin of somatic embryos in the system. A highly improved and efficient system for soybean somatic embryogenesis was established using somatic embryo cotyledons and somatic embryo hypocotyl/radicle explants plated on -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) supplemented MS basal media. The system included somatic embryo cycling between liquid and solid medium and it consistently gave rise to a much higher frequency of explant response and a larger number of embryos per responding explant than those obtained from zygotic cotyledon explant tissues. Genotype differences were observed for response in some of the treatments with cv "Fayette" being more responsive than "J103". Histological studies revealed that somatic embryos induced in the somatic embryo cycling system originated almost exclusively from epidermal cells on both 2,4-D and NAA inductive media. The cells of the epidermis proliferated to produce somatic embryos directly without an intervening callus phase. A single-cell origin of somatic embryos was observed in cultures on a 40 mg/liter 2,4-D treatment. A large number of responding cells in the epidermis was also observed in the 10 mg/liter NAA treatment. The single-cell origin of somatic embryos from epidermal layers of the explant tissues should facilitate development of an efficient transformation system for soybean.
23016693|Salinity is one of the most serious abiotic stresses affecting crop productivity worldwide. Improving tolerance to salinity in field crops is globally important because a majority of the world population relies on salt-sensitive crops such as rice, corn, and wheat for their daily calories. Although there is no salt stress sensor yet identified, different signaling components and tolerance mechanisms have been substantiated to a great extent in a glycophyte like Arabidopsis, and more recently in a few halophytes. With the rapid advances in genetics, genomics, and biochemical and transformation tools, it is now possible to explore the genetic and molecular basis of the unusually high level of salt tolerance in halophilic plants. We will focus on a halophyte grass, Spartina alterniflora, commonly known as smooth cordgrass, which possesses all known mechanisms of salt tolerance and subsequent exploitation of its genome information for crop improvement. A number of candidate genes encoding transcription factors, ion transport, osmoprotectants, antioxidants, detoxifying enzymes, etc. have been identified. Although recent efforts to develop salt tolerant cultivars that could retain the halophytic traits through transgenesis show some promise, further exploration is needed to test the contribution of single or multiple salt stress-related genes or regulatory factors from halophilic plants, including S. alterniflora, for possible utilization in crop improvement.
23016614|In general, plant material grown in vitro has low photosynthetic ability to achieve positive carbon balances. Therefore, a continuous supply of carbohydrates from the culture medium is required, and sucrose has been the most commonly used carbon source. In this paper, we investigate the effects of different sucrose concentrations and the presence and absence of light on the endogenous levels of soluble carbohydrates and starch as well as on the proliferation and growth of Dendrobium Second Love (Orchidaceae) in vitro. The possibility of using etiolated stem segments as a means for micropropagating this hybrid was also verified. The results obtained indicated that the presence and absence of light and the sucrose concentrations used influenced the amounts of soluble carbohydrates and starch and the proliferation of D. Second Love shoots and roots. An increase in sucrose concentration caused a progressive increase in the amounts of total carbohydrates and starch. Under both light conditions, sucrose was the main sugar found in the shoots followed by glucose and fructose. The addition of sucrose to the culture medium up to 2% and 4% was advantageous to the number of shoots produced per explant and the root longitudinal growth in the presence and absence of light, respectively. Shoot and root dry matter and the number of roots formed per explant increased as sucrose concentration was raised up to 6% in both light treatments. The use of dark-grown shoot segments proved to be a useful and reliable alternative for the micropropagation of this hybrid.
20461727|Multiple shoots were induced on stem segments of an 8-y-old plant of Metrosideros excelsa Sol ex Gaertn. "Parnel". Axillary shoots produced on uncontaminated explants were excised, segmented, and recultured in the same medium to increase the stock of shoot cultures. The Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium, augmented with different concentrations of 2- isopenthenyladenine (2iP) and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), either singly or in combinations, as potential medium for shoot multiplication by nodal segments was tested. In the following experiment, equal molar concentrations of four cytokinins [2iP, kinetin, zeatin, and N-benzyladenine (BA)] in combination with equal molar concentrations of three auxins [IAA, -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA)] were tested for ability to induce axillary shoot development from single-node stem segments. The highest rate of axillary shoot proliferation was induced on MS agar medium supplemented with 1.96M 2iP and 1.14M IAA after 6 wk in culture. Different auxins (IAA, IBA, and NAA) were tested to determine the optimum conditions for in vitro rooting of microshoots. The best results were accomplished with IAA at 5.71M (89% rooting) and with IBA at 2.85 or 5.71M (86% and 86% rooting, respectively). Seventy and 90 percent of the microshoots were rooted ex vitro in bottom-heated bench (22  2C) after 2 and 4 wk, respectively. In vitro and ex vitro rooted plantlets were successfully established in soil.
4293332|Free radicals have an important role in the metabolism and development of aerobic organisms; however, their uncontrolled production leads to oxidative stress. This paper explores the possibility that free radical-mediated stress has a role in tissue culture recalcitrance. In the context of this paper, recalcitrance is considered to be the inability of plant tissue cultures to respond to culture manipulations; in its broadest terms, this study also concerns the time-related decline (i.e. in vitro aging) and loss of morphogenetic competence and totipotent capacity. Studies on a diverse range of in vitro plant systems have shown that tissue cultures produce free radicals, lipid peroxides and toxic, aldehydic lipid peroxidation products. Levels of these compounds vary in response to different tissue culture manipulations, but their production is enhanced during dedifferentation and antioxidant profiles also vary throughout different phases of culture. A hypothesis is presented which suggests that tissue culture manipulations cause major metabolic and developmental changes, some of which may predispose in vitro cultures to increased free radical formation. If antioxidant protection is compromised, oxidative stress ensues and free radicals and their reaction products react with macromolecules such as DNA, proteins and enzymes, causing cellular dysfuction and, as a result, the cultures become recalcitrant.
4293233|Leaf expiants of Sinningia speciosa were cultured in vitro on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium with various growth substances in order to regenerate shoots. On MS medium supplemented with indoleacetic acid (IAA) and kinetin, 80% of the expiants produced green callus and 25 to 30 shoots with roots per explant. On MS supplemented with IAA and N
20461588|This study describes a protocol for in vitro propagation of Chonemorpha grandiflora (Roth) S.M. & M.R. Almeida (Apocynaceae) through axillary bud proliferation and rooting. For shoot induction, the combination of 13.3 M N-benzyladenine (BA) and 2.46 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium was better than other growth regulators. Liquid medium was superior over solid medium for root formation and growth. IBA was more effective than other auxins for root induction. Addition of silver nitrate in the presence of IBA significantly increased the number, length, and branching of roots. Shoot tips encapsulated in medium containing 0.49 M IBA and 11.7 M silver nitrate exhibited 95% conversion to plantlets. This protocol enables the production of 250 plantlets from a single nodal explant within 7 mo. Plantlets showed 90% survival after acclimatization in soil and were morphologically similar to the source plant under field conditions.
20064956|Somatic and zygotic embryos of soybean cv. Jack were analyzed for soluble carbohydrate, total lipids, and protein during development. Zygotic embryos accumulated trace amounts of fructose, galactose, and galactinol, whereas somatic embryos contained only trace amounts of galactose. Somatic embryos accumulated much higher glucose levels than zygotic embryos. Both somatic and zygotic embryos contain low levels of sucrose, myoinositol, and pinitol. Raffinose and stachyose accumulated in the late developmental stages of zygotic embryos, but only stachyose was found to accumulate in the late stage somatic embryos. Zygotic embryos contained low total lipid levels up to 50 d after flowering (DAF) and then the levels increased to 16% by 55 DAF and 21% at 65 DAF. Somatic embryos had low levels of total lipids throughout development with the maximum of only 4.7%. Soybean zygotic embryos contained about 40% protein throughout development, while the protein concentration of somatic embryos decreased from 44% to 25% as maturation approached. These studies demonstrate that the composition of Jack zygotic embryos is similar to that described for other cultivars during development while the somatic embryo composition and size is markedly different. The low somatic embryo germination often noted might be due to the abnormal development as shown by a composition different from that of mature zygotic embryos. The low concentration of the raffinose series sugars might be especially important factors.
25623033|Cardamom (Electtaria cardamomum Maton) has great commercial value as a spice crop in India. A one-step protocol for direct regeneration of plants and in vitro conservation by slow growth method has been developed. A maximum of 6.5 shoots/culture were obtained in 2 mo or 15.1 shoots/culture in 4 mo on Murashige and Skoog (Physiol Plant 15:473-497, 1962) medium (MS)+5 M benzylaminopurine gelled with 0.7% agar (micropropagation medium). Rooting also occurred simultaneously on the same medium. Using one shoot tip or nodal explant, about 30,375 plants can be regenerated in a year on the micropropagation medium. In vitro conservation by slow growth method was achieved on 1/2 MS (major salts)+5 M BAP +0.7% agar (conservation medium); about 70% of the cultures survived up to 18 mo at 252C. Successful regrowth of plants on micropropagation medium was obtained by culturing nodal explants excised from 18-mo-old conserved plants. Some 96% of the plants survived the hardening treatment and grew normally in a greenhouse. If 24 cultures are conserved on the conservation medium, it is possible to regenerate at least 750 plants by using explants derived from 70% of the surviving shoots and culturing the same in micropropagation medium for 4 mo. These plants may be used for planting or as a source of explants for the next conservation cycle. On the basis of 20 random amplified polymorphic DNA and 13 inter-sample sequence repeat primers analyses, no significant reproducible variation was detected among the in vitro-conserved plants compared with the mother plants.
23255676|The ability of salicylic acid and NaCl to induce programmed cell death by disturbing ionic homeostasis was investigated using tomato suspension culture cells. NaCl (300 mM) and salicylic acid (1 mM) inhibited cell growth and caused cell death within 1 wk of exposure. Treatment with NaCl increased the production of reactive oxygen species and the permeability of plasma membrane, but it also led to a reduction in the pH of the culture medium and resulted in a disturbance in ionic homeostasis of the cells. Salicylic acid-induced cell death in tomato suspension culture was also accompanied by production of reactive oxygen species and increases in both electrolyte leakage and pH of the culture media. However, reactive oxygen species production was not significantly different in cultures treated with a lethal salicylic acid concentration and 100 mM NaCl, in which most of the cells survived. A decrease in the K + /Na + ratio was observed only in those cell cultures in which the salicylic acid treatment induced the death of cells. These results suggest that the decrease of the intracellular K + concentration and K + /Na + ratio is a common phenomenon in triggering programmed cell death by lethal concentrations of salicylic acid and NaCl.
20064872|Salix tarraconensis Pau ex Font Quer, an endemic willow species from northeast Spain, was micropropagated with nodal segments. Shoot multiplication was obtained with different cytokinins, either on Murashige and Skoog medium or woody plant medium. Best results for shoot formation were obtained on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 4.9 M of 6---dimethylallylaminopurine. Shoots showed strong apical dominance, and some cultures displayed apical necrosis. Benzyladenine gave the worst results; shoots displayed very slow growth, deformed leaves, and hyperhydricity. Good rooting of shoots was obtained with different auxins or without plant growth regulators on woody plant medium. The best results (90-100%) were obtained within 20 d. On rooting media with indole-3-butyric acid or indoleacetic acid, shoot elongation was good (35-40 mm length). Apical necrosis was observed in elongating shoots on rooting medium, but this disturbance favored axillary bud sprouting and formation of new shoots. Shoot length and quality of roots decreased gradually as the concentration of naphthaleneacetic acid increased. Plant survival was 90% 4 weeks after removal from in vitro conditions.
4292973|The influence of various osmotic agents (carbohydrates) on the morphogenesis and growth of callus of Actinidia deliciosa cv Hayward was studied. Sucrose supported the highest level of growth and the lowest was supported by the sugar alcohols used in the experiments (glycerol, mannitol, sorbitol). The growth and survival of callus were evaluated with different osmotic sources in media containing glycerol, mannitol, or sorbitol at a concentration of 0.2 M each for an extended period of eight subcultures (360 days). Two crucial points were identified: until the third subculture (135 days) the vitality seemed to be elevated; whereas the fifth (225 days) seemed to be a "point of no return" for tissues grown in glycerol and mannitol. Pretreatment with osmotic carbohydrates was shown to increase the magnitude of the morphogenetic events of callus subsequently transferred to sucrose-containing medium. Callus grown in the presence of mannitol and sorbitol showed a similar frequency of morphogenetic response. With respect to the media containing glycerol and sucrose, these induced more intense regeneration of shoots. When glycerol was present in the medium, however, we observed a synchronization of the morphogenetic response. Our results suggest that it is possible both to stimulate and to synchronize morphogenesis utilizing osmotic conditioning subcultures.
23254891|An efficient protocol for genetic transformation of rutabaga (Brassica napus var. napobrassica) cultivar "American Purple Top Yellow" was developed by optimizing several factors influencing gene delivery and plant regeneration. A two-step regeneration protocol, adapted from canola, was optimal for rutabaga regeneration using hypocotyl explants. Transient expression studies monitored by histochemical -glucuronidase (GUS) assays indicated that several factors, including Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain, cocultivation time, and cocultivation medium, affected gene delivery. For stable transformation, precultured hypocotyl explants were cocultivated with Agrobacterium cells on sterilized filter paper overlaid on callus induction medium containing 100 M acetosyringone for 6 d under a 16-h photoperiod. Selection and regeneration of transformed cells were conducted on media containing 50 mg l -1 kanamycin and 250 mg l -1 Timentin. Using this protocol, GUS- and PCR-positive transformants were obtained from 3.2 to 4.2 % of hypocotyl explants inoculated with each of the three Agrobacterium strains after 35 mo. Most transformants exhibited a normal phenotype. Southern blot analysis confirmed stable integration of the gusA transgene in T 0 plants.
4293117|In order to improve the late phases of Theobroma cacao L. embryogenesis from tissues of maternal origin, zygotic embryogenesis and somatic embryogenesis were compared, with respect to morphological, histological, and physiological parameters. Zygotic embryogenesis could be divided into three steps: (a) embryogenesis sensu stricto, (b) a growth period in which cotyledonary embryos reached their final dimensions, and (c) a maturation period in which embryos accumulated protein and starch reserves, dehydrated to a water content equal to 30%, and underwent a modification in soluble sugar composition. Monosaccharides and sucrose contents decreased to the benefit of the oligosaccharides raffinose and stachyose. The formation of somatic embryos by use of basic protocols was studied to define the limiting factors that could lie behind their poor development. Morphological abnormalities of somatic embryos, which represented 80% of the total population, were described. A histological study showed that somatic embryos lacked starch and protein reserves; moreover, their water content was much higher than that of their zygotic counterparts. Introducing a growth period into the culture protocol made for better embryo development. Adding sucrose and abscisic acid to the maturation medium was effective in increasing reserve synthesis and resulted in higher germination, conversion, and acclimatization rates.
20540988|An efficient, simple micropropagation method was developed for Alocasia amazonica using corms in semisolid and liquid cultures. Explants were cultured onto Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (Murashige and Skoog, Physiol. Plant. 15:473-497, 1962) supplemented with different cytokinins (Benzyladenine [BA, 2.22-13.32 M], kinetin [2.32-13.95 M], Thidiazuron [TDZ, 0.45-4.54 M]) and cytokinin in combination with auxins [naphthalene acetic acid (NAA, 0.54-5.37 M)/indole acetic acid (IAA, 0.57-5.71 M)/indole butyric acid (IBA, 0.49-4.9 M)]. All supplementary-induced shoot proliferation and the optimal results was on the medium supplemented with 2.27 M TDZ, which induced 5.1 shoots per explant. Among the different concentrations of sucrose (0-120 g l) tested for shoot proliferation, 30 g l was found suitable for corm cultures of Alocasia amazonica. The optimal shoot proliferation and biomass values were with the plantlets grown at 30 mol m s photosynthetic photon flux (PPF) and 25C. Liquid cultures found suitable for shoot proliferation and biomass accumulation was compared to semisolid cultures. Comparative studies of bioreactor systems [continuous immersion (with or without net) and temporary immersion in liquid media using ebb and flood] revealed that shoot multiplication and growth were greatest with the raft bioreactor system. Plantlets (cormlets) from the bioreactor were hydroponically cultured for 30 days, and 100% of plants were acclimatized successfully. The simple efficient method of production of plantlets (cormlets) is useful for large-scale multiplication of this important ornamental plant.
4293272|In vitro proliferated sentang shoots were cultured onto half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing combinations of l-naphthyleneacetic acid (NAA) and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). Sentang shoots were unable to root in the absence of both auxins. A combination of 0.5 mg NAA per and 1 mg IBA per l induced the most shoots to form roots. With the addition of 2.5 g activated charcoal per l into half-strength MS medium containing 0.5 mg NAA per l and 1 mg IBA per l, roots were more numerous and longer. Substances like gelrite and phloroglucinol and sugar content which would commonly influence in vitro rooting were inhibitory to adventitious root formation of sentang. Maximal rooting of 100% was achieved in "Culture Pack," made of fluorocarbon polymer film containing charcoal-free medium with 0.5 mg NAA per l and 1 mg IBA per l. Rooted shoots were acclimatized for 4 wk. Overall survival was 80%. These findings suggest the use of Culture Pack as the culture vessels, with 0.5 mg NAA per l and 1 mg IBA per l in half-strength MS media to effectively induce roots in sentang shoots.
4292927|The tremendous diversity in techniques, timing, and facilities used to produce woody plant microcuttings for the nursery industry can result in substantial differences in the quality and performance of the same clones, depending on the producer. Evidence suggests that relatively minor procedural discrepancies that occur during the in vitro production stages as a consequence of these different production methods can determine the survival and acceptability of the plants during subsequent production. This review tracks the influence of methodologic variables during microshoot proliferation and rooting on quality of the plant, and examines the continuing repercussions for plant performance in the ex vitro environment.
4293581| A method for the micropropagation of Zantedeschia albomaculata is presented using shoot tip proliferation onto Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with different plant growth regulator concentrations and combinations. Of the four cytokinins tested, 6-benzyladenine (BA) and thidiazuron (TDZ) were found to be more effective. An optimal concentration of BA (8.87 M) or TDZ (4.54 M) developed an average of 3.8 and 3.2 shoots per explant, respectively, but increasing concentrations of cytokinins often led to lower proliferation rate and stunted growth. Addition of auxins to the MS medium supplemented with 8.87 M BA slightly enhanced multiple shoot formation in the explants. Multiplication of six cultivars of Zantedeschia genus comprising different flower types and colors were tested and achieved using only one regeneration medium (MS + 8.87 M BA + 2.46 M IBA). Different MS medium strength, air temperature (15, 20, 25, and 30C) and light quality [fluorescent, red + blue, red and blue light provided by a LED (light-emitting diode) system] were used (without phytohormone) with the aim of stimulating in vitro shoot and root development. Half-strength MS or MS and cultures maintained at 25C were found to be equally suitable for shoot tip culture of Z. albomaculata. Shoot elongation as well as fresh and dry weight were significantly increased when cultures were kept under red or blue light. 
4293275|Plant regeneration via somatic embryogenesis was developed in two groundnut varieties. Somatic embryogenesis was induced from immature leaflets on MS medium with different concentrations of the auxins 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) in combination with 0.5 mg/l of the cytokinin BA. The highest frequency of somatic embryo formation occurred on MS medium fortified with 20 mg 2,4-D per l. Of the two auxins tested individually 2,4-D was more effective for induction of embryogenesis as well as production of embryos. Embryo development and maturation was achieved on MS medium supplemented with
4293650| In vitro propagation of Pelecyphora aselliformis, a Mexican cactus which is considered rare and is highly valued in the commercial market, was initiated using seeds as explants. The longitudinal explants from seedlings germinated in vitro were cultivated on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 8.8 M benzyladenine (BA) or 4.6 M kinetin at pH 7.0. After 120 d, each explant gave rise to five shoots and this number of shoots increased 20-25% after subculture. The hyperhydricity was similar in both media, but callus formation was lower on the medium with BA. The shoot development, in terms of epicotyl length, and fresh and dry weight after 6 wk, was also recorded. The epicotyl length was similar on shoot-forming media but the quality of shoots was better on media containing BA. In about 1 yr, 500-600 well-defined shoots were obtained. The rooting of shoots was very slow and a vigorous radical system was observed after 1 yr of culture. 
41318714|Stem nodal expiants of Paphiopedilum philippinense hybrids (hybrid PH59 and PH60) directly formed shoots when cultured on a modified half-strength Murashige and Skoog (1962) basal medium supplemented with a combination of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D; 4.52 and 45.25 M) and l-phenyl-3-(l, 2,3-thiadiazol-5-yl)-urea (TDZ; 0.45 and 4.54 M) for 6 mo. On hormone-free basal medium, the percentages of expiants with shoots were 33.3% and 0% and the shoot numbers per expiant were 1 and 0 in hybrid PH59 and hybrid PH60, respectively. In hybrid PH59, 4.52 M 2,4-D plus 0.45 M TDZ induced a higher percentage of expiants with shoots and shoot number per expiant than did the hormone-free treatment. In hybrid PH60, although 4.52 M 2,4-D and 0.45 M TDZ promoted shoot formation, the highest shoot number was found with 4.52 M 2,4-D alone. Plantlets, each having several roots, were obtained from regenerated shoots after transferring onto hormone-free basal medium for 3 mo. The plantlets were potted in sphagnum moss, and acclimatized well in a greenhouse.
42568880|The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of forced ventilation and CO enrichment (360 or 720 mol mol CO ) on the in vitro growth and development of Pfaffia glomerata, an endangered medicinal species, under photomixotrophic or photoautotrophic conditions. P. glomerata nodal segments showed substantial differences in growth, relative water content and water loss from leaves, photosynthetic pigments, stomatal density, and leaf anatomical characteristics under these different treatments. CO enrichment led to increased photosynthetic pigments and reduced stomatal density of in vitro cultivated P. glomerata. A lack of sucrose in the culture medium increased 20-hydroxyecdysone levels, but the increase in CO levels did not further elevate the accumulation of 20-hydroxyecdysone. All growth increased in a CO-enriched atmosphere. In addition, CO enrichment, with or without sucrose, gave a lower relative water loss from leaves. This finding indicates that either a photoautotrophic or photomixotrophic system in a CO-enriched atmosphere may be suitable for large-scale propagation of this species.
20171637|Tissue browning that frequently results in the early death of bamboo shoots in vitro correlated directly with polyphenol oxidase (PPO, EC 1.10.3.1) activity and inversely with titratable acidity. It was unrelated to the level of endogenous phenols. During the course of culture, timing of PPO activity paralleled that of explant browning. Browning was highest among shoots cultured in a medium of pH 8, which was consistent with the pH optimum of the bamboo enzyme. The pH optimum was first determined with the crude enzyme, then verified with two purified isozymes. Stability of the bamboo PPO was also highest at pH 10. PPO activities of the severely browning Dendrocalamus latiflorus, the moderately browning Phyllostachys nigra, and the relatively non-browning Bambusa oldhamii were inhibited strongly by ascorbic acid, cysteine, sodium diethyldithiocarbamate, and sodium sulfite. But characterization of bamboo PPO according to enzyme inhibitors was not possible because enzyme extracts of the three species gave varied responses to the traditional substances. Nutrient medium addenda of some PPO inhibitors, namely ascorbic acid, cysteine, kojic acid, and thiourea, mainly enhanced browning. However, ferulic acid at 3 mM and lower concentrations reduced the number of brown shoots per culture, although not the percentage of cultures that browned. Polyvinylpyrrolidone failed completely to suppress browning. The two purified isozymes showed different temperature optima for PPO activity: 60C and 65C. The purified isozymes displayed a substrate preference for dopamine, or a cathecol oxidase characteristic.
20064962|Chicory root, stem, and leaf tissues have the propensity to regenerate organogenetic nodules following a wounding treatment. Using histological methods, we described this phenomenon on leaves of Cichorium intybus L. cv. 'Witloof' cultivated in vitro. Nodule morphogenesis and bud regeneration from nodules were characterized with the assistance of light and transmission microscopy techniques. Semithin and ultrathin sections of leaves and nodules were prepared from nodule induction to bud regeneration phases. Starch and inulin in differentiating tissues were histochemically detected in semithin and handmade sections. Our study demonstrates that nodules are formed in direct contact with vascular bundles of the leaves. The nodules consist of organized structures: a vascular center is surrounded by a large parenchyma, which is delimited by a periderm of multiple cork cell layers. Inside the vascular center near phloem tissues, a secretory network of articulated pseudolaticifers develops. From parenchymatous cells, in the vicinity of vascular centers, endogenous buds can be induced. In this region, several cords of vessel initials formed the vascular connection between neoformed buds and vascular centers. Simultaneously, transfer cell specialization occurs near the neoformed vascular strands. Vascular centers play a major role in this kind of organogenesis. Sugar metabolism appears to be closely related to nodule morphogenetic events.
20541054|In vitro propagation of northern red oak (Quercus rubra) shoots was successful from cotyledonary node explants excised from 8-wk-old in vitro grown seedlings. Initially, four shoots per explant were obtained on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 4.4 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA), 0.45 M thidiazuron (TDZ), and 500 mg l casein hydrolysate (CH) with a regeneration frequency of 64.7% after 3 wk. Subculturing explants (after harvesting shoots) to fresh treatment medium significantly increased shoot bud regeneration (16.6 buds per explant), but the buds failed to develop into shoots. A higher percentage (73.3%) of the explants regenerated four shoots per explant on woody plant medium (WPM) supplemented with 4.4 M BA, 0.29 M gibberellic acid (GA), and 500 mg l CH after 3 wk. Explants subcultured to fresh treatment medium after harvesting shoots significantly increased shoot regeneration (16 shoots per explant). Shoot elongation was achieved (4 cm) when shoots were excised and cultured on WPM supplemented with 0.44 M BA and 0.29 M GA. In vitro regenerated shoots were rooted on WPM supplemented with 4.9 M indole-3-butyric acid. A higher percentage regeneration response and shoot numbers per explant were recorded on WPM supplemented with BA and GA, than on MS medium containing BA and TDZ. Lower concentrations of BA and GA were required for shoot elongation and prevention of shoot tip necrosis. Each cotyledonary node yielded approximately 20 shoots within 12 wk. Rooted plantlets were successfully acclimatized.
4293712|Among the established plant cell lines, tobacco BY-2 cell line is unique, as it can be highly synchronized by established procedures. Because of this reason, the cell line has become invaluable for various studies, particularly on cell cycle issues. The importance of several characteristics of the cell line, some of which have not been handled thus far, is described in this article. We also include some preliminary characterization of an auxin-autotrophic cell line 2B-13 derived from the BY-2 cell line. Thus, the repertoire using the BY-2 cell line in plant sciences is expanding. The importance of this cell line could increase further as the expressed sequence tag (EST) database of the cell line became publicly available recently. The scientific achievements on this cell line that have been accumulated in recent years are being compiled and will be published as the 53rd volume in the monograph series of Biotechnology in Agriculture and Forestry (Nagata et al., 2004); readers are referred to this source.
25623040|We studied the fulfilment of assumptions of normality and homogeneity of error variance, prior to application of analysis of variance (ANOVA), for in vitro clonal propagation data. We assessed the use of data transformations and mean values for situations when the original data did not satisfy the required assumptions. The purpose of the study was to establish whether the use of original, transformed or mean values had any effect on F values, significance levels and clonal heritability values. The F values, significance levels and values of clonal heritability obtained showed analysis of variance to be reliable, despite deviations with respect to normality and homogeneity of variance and despite the fact that samples sizes were unequal. Original data may be used for ANOVA applied to measured variables such as number of shoots per explant, length of tallest shoot, number of 1-cm segments per explant and also derived variables such as the multiplication coefficient. Frequency data can be used for analysis of variance of categorical-type variables such as apical necrosis and percentage of responsive explant. For shoot colour variables, the distributions were very skewed and the variances were very different, but even though the sample sizes were not identical in all cases, lack of homogeneity of variance did not significantly affect F values, significance levels or clonal heritability values, and thus analysis of variance may be applied to the original data. The use of original and frequency data makes interpretation of the results easier than when transformed data are used and also allows us to calculate variance components more accurately than when using mean values, which do not provide as much information. Clonal heritability values from transformed data and mean values showed differences of less than one hundredth compared with those from original data. BoxCox-transformed data showed slightly lower heritability values than those corresponding to original data, whereas clonal heritability values from both mean data and angular-transformed data were slightly higher than those obtained using original data. In clonal variability studies with single growth medium, nutritional conditions that encouraged highly unequal growth or characteristics among clones gave rise to data that were unlikely to satisfy the conditions of normality or homogeneity of variance.
20065009|Transient expression of the -glucuronidase (GUS) gene has been studied in leaf-derived embryogenic callus of sweetpotato Ipomoea batatas L. (Lam.) by electroporation. The influence of several factors including electric field strength, buffer composition, time course of transient GUS gene expression, DNA concentration, enzyme, and polyethylene glycol (PEG) treatment was examined on GUS gene expression (number of blue spots). Maximum GUS gene expression (an average of 90 blue spots/fifty mg fresh weight callus tissue) was observed after 48 h when callus pieces were preincubated with electroporation (EPR) buffer for 1 h, followed by electroporation with a single electric pulse of 500 V/cm discharged from a 960-F capacitor in the presence of 20 g DNA/ml and 8.3 l NaCl (3 M). Changing the electroporation buffer conductivity (by varying the buffer composition with low-high salt concentrations), had only slight effect on the number of blue spots. Similarly, the time course study of GUS gene expression revealed that GUS activity could be detected 12 h after electroporation with a maximum activity after 72 h (112 blue spots). Increasing the amount of DNA from 5 to 50 g/ml in the EPR buffer had a slight effect on the expression frequency (from 20-110 blue spots, and 112 blue spots with 20 g/ml). The number of blue spots was increased by enzymatic wounding of callus pieces for 10 min and by addition of 200 l PEG 4000 (15%) before electroporation. These results suggest that intact cell electroporation can be used for producing transgenic sweetpotato tissue.
4293017|We have identified a callus associated protein (CAP) as a new molecular marker for proliferative growth and early cellular differentiation in higher plants. Antiserum directed against the Sorghum callus associated protein (CAP) was employed to isolate a cDNA clone (CAP-C2) from an expression library prepared from mRNA from actively dividing cell suspension cultures of Nicotiana tabacum L. cv. xanthi. The derived amino acid sequence contained structural features of eukaryotic transcriptional factors, including three putative zinc fingers, three activator domains, and a nuclear localization signal. A fusion protein formed between part of the CAP-C2 polypeptide and Escherichia coli beta-glucuronidase specifically accumulated within the nuclei of transfected protoplasts, suggesting a nuclear localization for the CAP protein. Increased levels of expression of CAP in vivo were observed in actively proliferating tobacco tissues, whereas expression in vitro was induced when mature, differentiated explants proliferated into callus or cell suspensions. A 6.2 kb unstable mRNA and two low-abundance nuclear proteins (p66 and p68) containing epitopes encoded by CAP-C2 accumulated in plant tissues undergoing proliferative growth but were absent in mature, differentiated tissues. The corresponding genes were also present in Nicotiana sylvestris and Petunia hybrida.
4293372|In our wide-ranging research on in vitro propagation of some monocotyledonous plants, two Commelinaceae species were studied: Tradescantia fluminensis var. foliis variegatis and Tradescantia pallida. Initial cultures were established successfully using nodal and apical meristems that produced single shoots, many roots, and no callus, by utilizing growth regulator-free MS medium. Addition of growth regulators did not increase the activity of explants that produced single or multiple shoots, atypical roots, and no callus. Consecutive cultures were possible using the apical and nodal meristems of the previous generation. The behavior of the different generations in culture did not change and was similar to the initial cultures. Their growth capacity was maintained over many months, also on a growth regulator-free medium. In both species, the chromosome number in the root tips of the mother plant and all morphologically stable in vitro plantlets confirmed a constant ploidy level, in T. fluminensis 2n = 72, and in T. pallida 2n = 24.
4293546|The objectives of this research were to investigate the genetic parameters associated with the in vitro formation of somatic embryos in soybean and to determine the effect of light intensity on the embryogenic capability of F
23321165|The evaluation of the genetic stability of Prunus Ferlenain plants regenerated from cryopreserved apices was investigated. The analysis of plants recovered from frozen material was performed at the phenotypic (developmental competence), cytological (chromosomal preparations) and molecular level [random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP)]. No genetic change was detected among the plantlets regenerated from frozen apices in comparison to the non-frozen material, including leaves of the mother tree kept in an orchard and vitroplantlets regenerated from non-frozen apices. This result suggested that the procedure used for Prunus cryopreservation could be used for long-term conservation. The relevance of each strategy for the genetic stability evaluation of the cryopreserved material is discussed.
20541016|An efficient protocol for in vitro propagation of the valuable ornamental and medicinal plant Bush germander (Teucrium fruticans L.) was developed through axillary shoot proliferation. A Murashige and Skoog agar medium supplemented with benzylaminopurine (6.6 M), -naphthaleneacetic acid (0.053 M), and sucrose (3%) significantly improved the production of multiple shoots directly from nodal segment explants, resulting in an average of 2.8 shoots per segment with an average of 6.8 nodes per shoot that would be potential newly formed explants. The new shoots were developed without a marked decrease in the average height of the shoots. Shoots treated with 2.5 M indole-3-butyric acid showed the highest average root number (7.9) and the highest percentage of rooting (94%). Plantlets were hardened off and transferred to jiffy pots for acclimatization under greenhouse conditions, resulting in a 100% survival rate.
4293711|Plant proteins, when used as dietary protein, are generally incomplete in nutrition due to their deficiency in several essential amino acids, for example, lysine and tryptophan in cereals and methionine and cysteine in legumes. Attempts to breed crops with increased levels of lysine and methionine have been less than satisfactory. Modern biotechnology offers alternative approaches for rectifying this nutrition deficiency. In the past decade, several transgenic strategies aimed at modifying the amino acid composition of plant proteins and enhancing the content of specific essential amino acid(s) for nutrition improvement have been developed and tested. These include synthetic proteins, modification of protein sequences, over-expression of heterologous or homologous proteins, and metabolic engineering of the free essential amino acid pool and protein sink. The progress and potential of these approaches and studies are reviewed. As plant proteins are the primary source of all dietary protein consumed by humans and animals and are inexpensive to produce in comparison with meat, improving their quality will make a significant contribution to our future food needs. The research and development in this area of interest is making promising progress towards this endeavor.
4293678|In order to establish a protocol for somatic embryogenesis of annatto, Bixa orellana L., seeds (70 d after anthesis) from field-grown orchards had their coats dissected off, and immature zygotic embryos were excised aseptically from immature seeds collected from field-grown trees and used as explants. Embryos were cultured onto MS medium supplemented with or without different combinations of plant growth regulators and activated charcoal. Direct somatic embryogenesis was induced on explants incubated either in Murashige and Skoog (MS), 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), and/or kinetin-supplemented media after 25 d of culture. The highest frequencies of embryogenesis and embryos per explant were obtained on medium containing
41496444|In vitro carotenoid pigment production in callus cultures of Calendula officinalis L. was investigated using two basal media, semi-solid versus liquid media and varied concentrations of sucrose, ammonium, and nitrate nitrogen. Of the two explants that were evaluated, floret explants were best for callus induction using Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2.0 mg 1 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid under complete darkness. Carotenoid pigment induction was significantly augmented when the sucrose concentration was increased. Low sucrose concentrations in the culture medium deferred the onset of pigment induction and reduced the overall levels of carotenoid pigments produced. The highest amount of carotenoid pigments was observed when the callus was grown on the MS medium without ammonium nitrogen. The quantity of carotenoids was slightly elevated in cultures grown on semisolid medium than those grown in liquid medium. In vitro carotenoid production was optimized by modifying the concentration of ammonium nitrogen to nitrate nitrogen in the culture medium and enhancing the sucrose concentration.
40663763|A root-derived callus line of Panax sikkimensis that stably accumulates anthocyanins was established by small cell aggregate selection method. The selected line showed a growth index of 221.36 and an anthocyanin content of 2.76 mg/g fw (7.076% dw) in 50-60 d of growth on a modified MS medium containing 4.5 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid and 1.2M kinetin under 16-h light and 8-h dark photoperiodic conditions. Incubation under continuous light increased the growth index to 435.57 but led to a marginal dilution of anthocyanin content to 2.192 mg/g fw (6.928% dw). The purple-red pigment had absorption maximum at 528 nm. The selected callus line has shown sustained growth and productivity for more than 6 yr now.Interestingly, pigment accumulation in the selected line did not hinder the ginsenoside production in the callus tissue (0.9-1.2% fw).
4293421|Adventitious buds were induced from immature embryos of Picea chihuahuana, a species from the north of Mexico. The medium was Schenk and Hildebrandt supplemented with benzyladenine and kinetin, alone or in combination with naphthaleneacetic acid and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Adventitious buds were obtained through a wide range of growth regulator concentrations, mainly from the cotyledonary region. Kinetin was more effective than benzyladenine in shoot induction. The optimum shoot induction medium contained
4293064|Tissue cultures on properly solidified Gelrite media generally showed superior shoot proliferation and rooting, as well as shoot and root vigor and callus development to those on TC agar. Vitrification, or hyperhydricity, was observed in both Gelrite and agar media and minimized by increasing the gel concentrations. Rigidity of Gelrite media depended on combined levels of MS macrosalts, basal nutrient formulations, sucrose concentration, pH, and Gelrite concentration. Most MS macrosalts increased hardness of Gelrite gels; NH
20065036|The effects of auxin concentration and photoperiod on rooting were examined with a view to establishing a rooting regime for Betula pendula shoots cultured in vitro. Optimum concentrations of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) were determined: the effects of a 16-h photoperiod and a pretreatment of 8 d total darkness were examined. Maximum rooting rates and rooting densities (root number) were achieved using relatively low levels of IBA (0.39-0.74 M). Both the dark and the light regimes produced roots, higher yields occurring with the latter. Maximum rooting percentage was reached after 30 d growth in the light-treated cultures.
25623032|The leaves of Quillaja brasiliensis, a native tree species of southern Brazil, accumulate saponins which have adjuvant activity in vaccines. An efficient micropropagation system for Q. brasiliensis was developed. Plants were obtained from aseptically germinated seeds. High rates of germination were observed on filter paper and aseptic medium substrate (sucrose and light exposure did not affect the germination response). Stem nodal segments were inoculated into Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine. Each explant produced multiple shoots, which elongated satisfactorily on the same medium. Elongated shoots were rooted in a modified MS medium with or without auxins. Best rooting responses were observed in medium containing 10 mg 1 indole-3-acetic acid under continuous exposure. The rooted explants were acclimatized and successfully transferred to soil, yielding approximately 95% survival after 10 mo. Leaf content of immunoadjuvant saponins in micropropagated plants was not affected by auxin type used for rooting and was comparable to that of field-grown trees. The results indicate that Q. brasiliensis represents an alternative and readily renewable source of biomass for the production of bioactive saponins.
4293680|Hairy roots of Brugmansia candida were exposed to different elicitors, such as pectinase, B. candida root homogenate, Hormonema ssp. homogenate, and the acetate control buffer. Pectinase increased intracellular hyoscyamine (200-300%) and the release of both alkaloids up to 1500% (scopolamine) and 1100% (hyoscyamine). However, the increment observed in both alkaloids in roots with the acetate control buffer was superior than with pectinase, obtaining increases of 700% in hyoscyamine and 200% in scopolamine. The B. candida root homogenate enhanced the accumulation (50-600%) and specific production of both alkaloids (ca. 150%). Hormonema ssp. homogenates induced different responses according to the original medium in which the fungus was cultured. The effect of each elicitor is discussed.
41432839|Bambusa balcooa is one of the most commercially important bamboo species. Regeneration of this species by sexual means is impossible because no seeds are set after flowering. Vegetative propagation is hindered due to bulky propagules, low rooting ability of the culm and branch cuttings, and seasonal specificity. This makes in v/irobased methods of regeneration important. This paper describes an efficient micropropagation protocol for multiplication of B. balcooa from nodal explants. Nodal segments were surface sterilized with 0.1% mercuric chloride for 10 min, and cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 4.4 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP), 2.32 M kinetin (Kn), and gelled with 0.2% w/v gelrite. Eighty-five percent of explants could be established in vitro with 90% of these achieving bud break. In vitro-formed shoots were successfully multiplied in MS liquid medium supplemented with 6.6 M BAP, 2.32 M Kn, 2.5% v/v coconut water, and 100 mg1; wyo-inositol. Subculturing shoots every 3 wk yielded a consistent proliferation rate of 4.11-fold without decline in vigor. Shoot clusters, containing 5 to 8 shoots, were rooted with 87.5% success in 1/2 MS supplemented with 5.71 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), 4.9 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), and 5.37 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) within 3 wk. Plants regenerated in this manner were acclimatized in the greenhouse and under a shade net with 88% success.
20064906|Fully habituated organogenic and nonorganogenic sugarbeet calluses reacted to application of the synthetic auxin [3-benzo(b) selenienyl] acetic acid by changes in growth and ethylene production. Treatment of fully habituated cells of periwinkle with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid led to the decrease of free cytokinin contents (isopentenyl adenine, zeatin riboside, and zeatin) during the late exponential phase of growth. The polyamine contents were also modified and the capacity to biotransform secologanin into ajmalicine was decreased. Treatment of the habituated periwinkle cells with zeatin greatly increased the amount of a polypeptide of 16 kDa; this response was more marked than that displayed by the auxin-dependent line. These data show that hormone-independent calluses and cell suspensions can retain some sensitivity to growth hormones. However, differences of responses were observed between the auxin-dependent lines and the habituated lines.
4293936|Suspension culture of cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.) has been an inefficient method for production of somatic embryos owing to problems with embryo maturation and conversion. Embryogenic callus of cv. Green Long was induced on semi-solid Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing
20461733|The International Association for Plant Biotechnology (IAPB) was founded in 1963 at the first truly international conference on plant tissue culture, which was organized by Philip R. White. White was a devoted internationalist and was strongly committed to global scientific cooperation. He felt that the time had come for the international tissue culture community to organize so that it could meet regularly and provide a forum to its members for the exchange of ideas and information of mutual interest and use. The various activities of the IAPB since its founding--the publication of its newsletter, its journal, and the proceedings of its quadrennial congresses--faithfully document the remarkable advances in plant biotechnology that were made possible by the successful integration of tissue culture and molecular biology. In particular, the congress proceedings serve as time capsules, providing a wealth of information about the best of science and the most prominent scientists of the time. The history of the IAPB is indeed the history of plant biotechnology.
4293290|A simple protocol for garlic in vitro management is described. It comprises a single medium for all developmental stages and genotypes tested, and the use of immature bulbs as source of axillary buds. Although genetic variability exists among the different accessions tested, for both the multiplication rate and bulblet size, acceptable values of multiplication were reached for all the accessions, and values of bulb formation approached 100% in the shoots produced.
4293889| Adventitious shoot induction and elongation was compared between root and petiole explants of Kentucky coffeetree (Gymnocladus dioicus L.) explants treated with a factorial combination of benzylaminopurine (BA) and thidiazuron (TDZ). Petiole explants initiated more adventitious shoots compared to root explants. Up to 83% of petiole explants initiated shoots compared to 67% of root explants. Maximal shoot induction was approximately 12 or five shoots per responding explant for petiole and root explants, respectively. For both explant types, TDZ was more effective than BA for shoot induction. There was an interaction between BA and TDZ on shoot induction in petiole explants, with the greatest percentage of explants forming shoots and the highest number of shoots initiated on the combination of 0.5 M TDZ plus 10 M BA and 1.0 M TDZ plus 5 or 10 M BA. In contrast, increasing concentrations of BA inhibited shoot initiation in root explants with and without TDZ. While BA inhibited shoot initiation in root explants, it promoted shoot initiation in petiole explants. In contrast, TDZ was equally effective at inducing shoots in root and petiole explants. This suggests that root and petiole explants of Kentucky coffeetree could be a useful model system for studying the differences in apparent mode of action between TDZ and BA on adventitious shoot initiation. 
20171605| Use of Hypericum perforatum L., commonly known as St. John's wort, has increased recently due to the pharmaceutical potential of hypericin, found in its leaves. Hypericin has been reported to effect a natural treatment for mild and moderate depression by increasing the concentration of neurotransmitters in the central nervous system. We have developed a novel cell culture system for in vitro growth and production of this species, suggesting a possible technology for large-scale production of hypericin. Leaf explants grown in Murashige and Skoog salts supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (0.90 M) and kinetin (0.11 M) gave maximum percentage callus formation compared to other medium treatments evaluated. Hypericin localization in cell phase and leaves was found to vary, with cell phase accumulating hypericin in special organelles and leaves accumulating it in vacuoles. Light and dark conditions, with cell aggregate size, played important roles in growth and hypericin production in cell suspension cultures. 
4293802|Black grama (Bouteloua eriopoda) and fourwing saltbush (Atriplex canescens) are important grass and shrub species in arid rangelands of the northern Chihuahuan Desert. They are naturally colonized by dark septate endophytic fungi that cannot be eliminated by seed disinfestation. Plants were regenerated from both species and appeared to be fungus-free in axenic cultures. Analysis of callus and regenerated plants of both species using dual staining with light and scanning electron microscopy revealed fungal endophytes intrinsically associated with cells, roots and leaves of regenerated plants that are also associated with native plants. Fungal layers and biofilms prevent direct exposure of callus, root or leaf tissues to the external environment. Micropropagation is a valuable tool for identifying key fungal endophytes that enhance drought tolerance in native desert plants.
4293071|The transfer of light-cultured green normal (N) and white habituated (HNO) sugarbeet callus to darkness reduced the growth of N callus and improved growth and delayed necrosis in the HNO callus. The decrease of dry matter of N callus under darkness was accompanied by a reduced content of carotenoids and by decreased CO
4293653|The species, Kniphofia leucocephala is extant at only one location, Langepan, KwaZulu-Natal in South Africa, where the population is threatened by afforestation and possibly grazing. Consequently, a continuous culture system was established as part of a program for the propagation and re-introduction of plants into the wild. The efficiency of the system in terms of shoot multiplication and, particularly, the frequency and rate of root initiation was strongly influenced by the concentration of benzyladenine in the shoot multiplication medium. The optimum shoot multiplication medium for subsequent root initiation contained
20461536|Coconut is one of the most recalcitrant species to regenerate in vitro. Although previous research efforts using plumule explants have resulted in reproducible somatic embryogenesis, efficiency is only 4 or 10 somatic embryos per plumule without or with a brassinolide treatment, respectively. In order to increase the efficiency of somatic embryogenesis in coconut, two different approaches were evaluated and reported here: secondary somatic embryogenesis and multiplication of embryogenic callus. Primary somatic embryos obtained from plumule explants were used as explants and formed both embryogenic callus and secondary somatic embryos. The embryogenic calluses obtained after three multiplication cycles were capable of producing somatic embryos. The efficiency of the system was evaluated in a stepwise process beginning with an initial step for inducing primary somatic embryogenesis followed by three steps for inducing secondary somatic embryogenesis followed by three steps for embryogenic callus multiplication, and finally production of somatic embryos from callus. The total calculated yield from one plumule was 98 000 somatic embryos. Comparing this to the yield obtained from primary somatic embryogenesis results in about a 50 000-fold increase. When compared to the yield previously reported in the literature with the use of a brassinolide treatment, it is about a 10 000-fold increase in yield. The present protocol represents important progress in improvement in the efficiency of coconut somatic embryo production.
4293596|Somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration have been achieved in Nothapodytes foetida, which is known for its rich source of anti-cancer and anti-AIDS alkaloids. Callus cultures were initiated from immature zygotic embryos cultured on Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 6-benzyladenine (BA), and kinetin. MS medium devoid of plant growth regulators favored the development of globular somatic embryos that differentiated further into plantlets. Plantlet regeneration efficiency was effectively increased on MS medium supplemented with BA. Over 90% of the in vitro plantlets survived when transferred to the soil. Alkaloids were detected in different stages of somatic embryos, regenerated plantlets, and different parts of the 2-yr-old regenerated plants. The somatic embryos contains camptothecin (0.011% dry weight, DW) and 9-methoxycamptothecin (0.0028% DW). Two-year-old field-grown plants obtained from somatic embryos were analyzed and contained higher levels of camptothecin (0.20% DW) and 9-methoxycamptothecin (0.097% DW) accumulated in roots, followed by stem and leaves. Alkaloids were quantified and identified by TLC and HPLC.
4292951|In wheat, plants may be regenerated from microspores via direct embryogenesis or organogenesis or embryogenesis from callus. Light and scanning electron microscopy were used to carefully study morphogenesis of microspore-derived plants from anther culture on modified 85D12 starch medium and to determine whether the plants were formed via organogenesis or embryogenesis. Our results indicate that plants are formed via embryogenesis from microspores. Evidence for embryogenesis included the formation of the epidermis and a suspensorlike structure (21 days after culture), followed by initiation of an apical meristem, differentiation of the scutellum, and embryo elongation. At 28 days in culture, the embryo possessed a well-developed scutellum and axis with suspensor. Embryogenesis was further confirmed by coleoptile and radicle elongation during germination when the embryos were cultured on medium supplemented with kinetin with or without coconut water. In this system, an average 67 microspores per responsive anther began cell division but only 3.69 embryos were formed per responsive anther after 6 wk. Adventitious embryos could be induced if the embryos, once formed, remained on initiation medium for 10 wk instead of being transferred to regeneration medium. Developmental stages which may be amenable to changes that could enhance plant production were identified. The potential to use this information to enhance plant production is discussed.
42568804|Croton floribundus Spreng., a native plant from South America, was utilized for in vitro micropropagation and phytochemical analyses. The effects of the addition of naphthaleneacetic acid and indole butyric acid, on the production of shoots and leaves, as well as volatile constituent production, were determined. The combination of naphthaleneacetic acid and indole butyric acid at a ratio of 1:1 led to the production of the maximum number of leaves and longest shoots after a 60-d subculture period. Analyses of leaf dichloromethane extracts using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry showed that monoterpenes and sesquiterpenes were the main chemical classes present in both in vivo and in vitro conditions. Use of these plant growth regulators in the medium-induced quantitative changes in the major monoterpenes (neral, geranial, limonene, and carvone). In vitro leaf extracts produced compounds such as carvone as well as a large amount of trans--farnesene, with the highest production of carvone (16.8%) being produced on medium supplemented with 1.0 mgL naphthaleneacetic acid. These results suggested the occurrence of biotransformation reactions of limonene and farnesyl cations in culture.
20541009|Somaclones exhibiting variations with flower characteristics were recovered from the tissue-culture-derived plants of Doritaenopsis. Two molecular techniques, random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and methylation-sensitive amplification polymorphism (MSAP) analyses, were used to characterize the somaclones. RAPD analysis, using 100 randomly selected primers, failed to differentiate variants and normal plants, even though some primers (six out of 100 primers) exhibited 6-10 distinct banding patterns. However, MSAP analysis revealed the differences in the DNA methylation patterns in the normal and variant plants which were correlated with phenotypic variation. In all, 311, 337, 366, and 343 fragments were obtained with normal and V1, V2, and V3 variant plants, respectively; each representing recognition site cleaved by either or both of the isoshizomers were amplified using 12 combination of primers. A total of 36 (11.6%), 77 (22.9%), 73 (19.9%), and 47 (13.7%) sites were found to be methylated at cytosine in the genomes of normal and V1, V2, and V3 variant Doritaenopsis plants. This study demonstrates usefulness of MSAP to detect DNA methylation events in tissue cultured Doritaenopsis plants.
4293548| St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum cv. Anthos) is a medicinal plant with historical and anecdotal evidence of efficacy as an anti-depressant. Recent research has demonstrated an active biosynthetic pathway leading to the production of the mammalian neurohormone melatonin in St. John's wort plantlets. The objective of the current study was to assess the physiological role of melatonin and related indoleamines in plant morphogenesis. In the initial experiments, two of the indoleamines, serotonin and melatonin, were supplemented to the culture medium. In subsequent research, six inhibitors of auxin and indoleamine action or transport, 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid, p-chlorophenoxyisobutyric acid, p-chlorophenylalanine, D-amphetamine, fluoxetine (Prozac), and methylphenidate (Ritalin), were included in a culture medium in the presence or absence of the auxin, indoleacetic acid (IAA). The rate of de novo root and shoot organogenesis and the endogenous concentrations of auxin and indoleamines were determined in cultured explants. Significant reductions in de novo root regeneration were found to correspond with decreases in the pool of both IAA and melatonin. An increase in the endogenous concentration of melatonin was correlated with an increase in de novo root formation, and increased serotonin levels corresponded to increased shoot formation on the explants. Our findings provide the first evidence that a balance of the endogenous concentration of serotonin and melatonin may modulate plant morphogenesis in vitro. 
20171630| A reproducible system for gene transfer in lentil through particle bombardment is presented. Lentil cotyledonary nodes excised from germinated seedlings were bombarded with a plasmid containing a mutant acetolactate synthase gene (ALS) from tobacco conferring resistance to sulfonylurea herbicides. Putative transgenic shoots regenerated on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and chlorsulfuron (5 nM for first 4 wk followed by 2.5 nM for the remainder of the culture period) were micrografted and successfully transferred to soil. T and selfed progeny plants were screened using metsulfuron herbicide leaflet painting. The non-transformed escapes died and transformed plants survived the test. The surviving plants were phenotypically normal and produced viable seeds. The presence and stable transmission of the trangene into genomic DNA of screened T transformants was confirmed by PCR and Southern hybridization. This method for producing transformed plants will allow new opportunities for lentil breeding to produce improved cultivars. 
4293232|The effect of culture temperature on the morphogenetic response of Arachis hypogaea was studied. Cotyledons were cultivated on MS medium supplemented with
4293029|Induction of somatic embryogenesis, shoot organogenesis, and subsequent plant regeneration in niger seem to be dependent on genotype, choice of explant, and composition of media growth regulators. Two distinct regeneration protocols have been developed for somatic embryogenesis and shoot organogenesis. Somatic embryogenesis was induced from epicotyls and cotyledonary explants (9 to 35%) (but not from hypocotyls and roots) in presence of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid, and 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxypropionic acid. These embryos matured in MS medium containing Kinetin plus naphthalene acetic acid (NAA), Kinetin plus Zeatin, and Kinetin plus abscisic acid (ABA). Matured embryos could be germinated on LS and MS basal media without hormones. Non-embryogenic callus initiated on Linsmaier and Skoog's (LS) medium from cotyledons of six different genotypes produced shoots (9 to 32%) on Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium fortified with 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP,
20064834|A profitable system for the establishment of morphogenic callus cultures and indirect shoot induction and development was accomplished from nodal shoot segments obtained from adult and micropropagated plants of kiwifruit (Actinidia deliciosa [Chev.] Liang and Ferguson, var. deliciosa) cv. "Hayward". The effects of medium composition, cytokinin levels, dilution of salts, and type of callus derived from the cultured primary explants were studied. Medium composition as well as type of callus greatly affected organogenic responses.
4293627|US Senator Christopher Bond joined Dr. Roger Beachy at the podium during the SIVB 2001 Congress Plenary Session on Opportunities and Challenges in Plant Biotechnology to Benefit Health and Sustainability, on June 17, 2001 in St. Louis, MO. Senator Bond presented an advocate's view regarding the benefits of plant biotechnology development. The strengths of the biotechnology regulatory system were extolled. The opportunities of this new technology to produce more and nutritionally superior food, additional plant-based medicines and vaccines, plant-based renewable sources of energy, and renewable industrial products were outlined. The benefits to the environment by adopting plant biotechnological innovations were discussed. Developing public policy regarding this new technology should be based on facts, science and reason.
20064895|Calluses from five asparagus genotypes, G14, G32, G171, G203, and G447 and hybrid Jersey Giant (JG) were incubated at three temperature regimes (24, 27, and 30 C) on embryo induction medium to assess somatic embryo development and conversion to plantlets. The calluses from three genotypes (G14, G32, and G171) were not responsive, failing to produce somatic embryos at any temperature regime. For three responsive genotypes (G203, G447, and JG), both incubation temperature and genotype significantly affected the numbers of somatic embryos produced. The calluses produced the most and the least numbers of total, bipolar, and globular embryos when incubated at 27 C and 24 C, respectively. When incubated at 27 C, G203 produced the highest numbers of total and globular embryos,
4292918| We have used microprojectile bombardment of tobacco pollen to study the DNA sequences involved in the expression of pollen-expressed genes. Promoter-reporter gene fusions constructed with the promoters of three different pollen-expressed genes from tomato (LAT52, LAT56, and LAT59) and either the -glucuronidase or luciferase reporter genes were assayed by bombarding hydrated tobacco pollen with the gene constructs precipitated onto tungsten microprojectiles. Reporter gene expression can be assayed within 30 min, with the maximal level of expression between 6 and 12 h after bombardment. By constructing and assaying promoter deletion derivatives, we have been able to delimit regions of the promoters that are necessary for high level expression in pollen. We also demonstrate that results with this transient expression system parallel the expression levels seen in pollen from stably transformed transgenic plants. The microprojectile bombardment assay can be used to rapidly test constructs for pollen expression before Agrobacterium-mediated plant transformation. Furthermore, it may be possible to adapt the microprojectile bombardment technique to achieve stable transformation of pollen. 
20065033|Factors influencing the conversion of isolated mature zygotic embryos of Pinus radiata D. Don into plantlets were investigated. Nutritional factors were critical to this conversion. The optimum medium strength was half-strength medium consisting of modified Quoirin and Le Poivre salts (von Arnold and Eriksson, 1981) and Schenk and Hildebrandt (1972) vitamins. Sucrose (3%), glucose (2-3%) and fructose (2-5%) could serve as carbon sources for this conversion. In general, a few significant benefits were found with the addition of organic nitrogen sources tested on the development of isolated embryos into plantlets. Nearly all plant growth regulators tested were not beneficial for this conversion, and some of them had a negative effect. Only gibberellic acid (GA at 0.58 M) seemed to stimulate embryos to germinate a little bit earlier in comparison with the control. Submerging the cotyledons of the isolated embryo into the agar-gelled medium led to better growth in comparison with the control. Embryos cultured in liquid medium grew better but the germination percentage was apparently lower compared with agar-gelled medium. Liquid medium with sponge support could increase the percentage of germinated isolated embryos, but the embryo growth was not comparable to the liquid medium only. The addition of polyethylene glycol 6000 to the liquid medium seemed to increase the germination percentage and had no adverse effect on the growth of isolated embryos. Light could influence embling growth in different ways.
20064808|Repeated grafting of 0.2-cm shoot tips from fruiting-age trees of Citrus reticulata Blanco 'Ponkan' mandarin and C. sinensis Osbeck 'Liu Tseng' sweet orange onto freshly germinated 'Troyer' citrange [Poncirus trifoliata (L.) Raf. X. C. sinensis Osbeck] seedlings in vitro resulted in progressive restoration of rooting competence and vigor of regenerated roots and shoots. The restored traits were retained through the course of the investigation and suggested a phase reversal phenomenon.
20461589|This study describes a protocol for the regeneration of complete plantlets of Terminalia arjuna from nodal explants of mature trees. Shoot multiplication from nodal explants was achieved by culturing on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing different concentrations of 6-benzyladenine (BA), thidiazuron or kinetin, or BA in combination with -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The best shoot multiplication response was obtained from nodal explants grown on modified MS (half-strength major salts and Fe-EDTA) medium containing 4.44 M BA and 0.53 M NAA. Seasonal variations significantly affected the proliferation potential of nodal explants and best proliferation was observed from explants collected during April to May. Microshoots were rooted on half-strength MS medium with 4.92 M IBA. The rooted shoots were acclimatized successfully.
4292950|Nodal segments from in vitro cultured Petunia hybrida were grown under varying cultural conditions. The origin of nodal explants influenced vitrification. Basal segments formed a higher percentage of vitreous shoots than did the upper nodes. A method was developed for including polyethylene glycol with Gelrite to obtain gelled media of varying water potentials. Media water potential from -0.31 to -1.2 MPa had no effect on controlling the level of vitrification. Gelrite promoted vitrification but GIBCO agar, alone or in combination with Gelrite, reduced its occurrence. Lowering media NH
20064918|Hancornia speciosa fruit is highly desired for the juice and ice cream industry in tropical regions. A rapid reduction in germination ability of H. speciosa seeds has been a problem for its large-scale cultivation. This paper describes an in vitro technique that may lead to an alternative propagation method for H. speciosa. Shoot apices and nodal segments from aseptically germinated young embryos were cultivated in vitro on Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium supplemented with growth regulators. Shoot multiplication was maintained by sequential subculture of shoot tips and nodal segments. N-benzyladenine was the most effective cytokinin for the induction of shoot growth. N-furfurylamino-purine, at various concentrations, yielded multiplication rates sevenfold lower than the highest multiplication rate found with N-benzyladenine. Increased root initiation rate and root elongation was observed with the presence of -(indole-3) butyric acid in the half-strength Murashige and Skoog culture medium, especially at 10 M. N-benzyladenine strongly inhibited rooting, even in the presence of -(indole-3) butyric acid. The in-vitro-raised rooted plantlets were acclimatized to greenhouse environment through progressive reduction in relative humidity and later transplanted to the field.
4293550| A protocol for regeneration and micrografting of shoots of lentil (Lens culinaris Medik) was developed. Multiple shoots (4-5) were regenerated from cotyledonary node explants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 8.8 M 6-benzylaminopurine. In vitro regenerated shoots were micrografted on rootstocks with 96% efficiency. The successful grafts were transplanted to pots in Redi-earth, hardened off and were grown to maturity with 100% success. The success of the micrografting was independent of the nature and concentration of growth regulator used in shoot initiation medium and the time period for induction of shoots. The protocol was successful with several cultivars of lentil. The advantages of micrografting over in vitro rooting are discussed. 
4293553|Shoot multiplication of Zingiber officinale cv.
40793156|Catharanthus roseus L. (G) Don. is an important dicotyledonous medicinal plant that produces anticancer compounds, which are used for the treatment of a wide variety of cancers. We have quantified vinblastine (a major dimeric anticancer compound) in various in vitro raised tissues; embryogenic and nonembryogenic calli, three different embryogenic stages (proliferated, matured, and germinating embryo), somatic embryo derived plantlets and in ex vitro grown plantlets by using high performance liquid chromatography. Of the various obtained callus lines and embryogenesis stages, maximum vinblastine content was found in leaf callus and in germinating embryos. The leaves of somatic embryo-derived plantlets contained more vinblastine than did Catharanthus leaves developed ex vitro. The yield of vinblastine was monitored for 30 wk. The production of vinblastine appeared to be age dependent and tissue specific; the finding of our analyses is discussed in detail.
4293241|An in vitro coculture system has been established to study interactions between roots and aphids. Eight aphid species (Aphis spiraecola P., Trama rara M., Macrosiphum euphorbiae S., Rhopalosiphum padi L., Sitobion avenae F., Rhopalosiphum maidis F., Metopolophium dirhodum W., and Pemphigus populivenae F.) were reared on six species of hairy root cultures, Carthamus tinctorius L. cv N10, Tagetes patula L., Trichosanthes cucumerina L. var anguina, Hyoscyamus muticus L., Nicotiana tabacum L., and Beta vulgaris L. subsp. vulgaris. All species of aphids survived on root cultures for at least 2 d. Three cocultures have been maintained aseptically for periods ranging from 2 mo. to over 2 yr. The coculture of R. padi on C. tinctorius cv N10 (N10-Rp) was used to study morphological and biochemical responses of roots under aphid herbivory. Aphid herbivory caused browning of cultures, reduced root vegetative growth, and increased production of polyacetylenes in C. tinctorius cv N10 roots. Our results suggest that this coculture system may improve our understanding of interactions between aphids and plant roots.
20064856|Microspore-derived embryos from Brassica napus cv. Topas (low erucic acid) and Reston (high erucic acid) were subjected to treatment with abscisic acid (ABA) during late-stage embryo development and then dried under controlled relative humidities to mature dry seed levels of moisture. Exogenously medium-supplied ABA arrested growth and development, reduced moisture content, increased total fatty acids on a dry weight basis, and stimulated synthesis of proteins in microspore-derived embryos. ABA also resulted in a higher proportion of 22:1 in cv. Reston (high 22:1) and increased the level of fatty acid unsaturation in cv. Topas (low 22:1). The accumulation of two proteins that co-migrated with cruciferin and napin on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and two-dimensional gels were also promoted by exposure to ABA, and the degree of accumulation was dependent on the concentration and time of application of ABA. Controlled desiccation of microspore embryos, used to simulate normal maturation and dehydration of zygotic embryos during seed development, did not seem to cause an increase of either storage proteins, total fatty acids, or 22:1 (in cv. Reston), suggesting that dehydration is not a prerequisite for these processes, at least in cultured Brassica embryos.
20461581|Sour orange (Citrus aurantium L.) rootstock has historically been a widely utilized citrus rootstock throughout the world due to its wide soil adaptability and superior horticultural performance. However, quick-decline isolates of citrus tristeza virus (CTV) have demolished entire industries of sour orange rootstock in some countries, including Brazil and Venezuela. CTV is presently destroying millions of trees of sour orange rootstock in Florida and threatens the citrus industries of Texas and Mexico, where sour orange is the predominant rootstock. Efforts to replace sour orange rootstock are combining traditional breeding and biotechnology approaches, including somatic hybridization and transformation. Molecular techniques have confirmed that sour orange is probably a hybrid of mandarin and pummelo. A major focus of our program continues to be the somatic hybridization of superior mandarins with pre-selected pummelo parents. Here, we report the regeneration of allotetraploid somatic hybrid plants from seven new mandarin + pummelo combinations and one new sweet orange + pummelo combination. All new somatic hybrids were confirmed by leaf morphology, ploidy analyses via flow cytometry, and random amplified polymorphic DNA analysis to show nuclear contributions from both parents in corresponding hybrids. These new somatic hybrids are being propagated by tissue culture and/or rooted cuttings for further evaluation of disease resistance and horticultural performance in field trials.
4293607|This lecture was delivered June 26, 2002, Orlando, FL, upon giving of the Society for In Vitro Biology (SIVB) Lifetime Achievement Award to Dr. Gordon H. Sato. Dr. Sato was born in Los Angeles, CA, and his family was relocated to Camp Manzanar, CA as a result of internment of American citizens of Japanese descent after the bombing of Pearl Harbor. His undergraduate training was at the University of Southern California and he obtained a Ph.D. degree at the California Institute of Technology in 1955 with Nobel Prize winner Max Delbruck. After post-doctoral training, he was Professor of Biochemistry at Brandeis University. From 1970 to 1983, Dr. Sato was Professor of Biology at University of California-San Diego. In 1982, he became director of the W. Alton Jones Cell Science Center in Lake Placid, NY. Dr. Sato is a member of the National Academy of Sciences, and has served as SIVB President and Editor-in-Chief of the SIVB journal, In Vitro Cellular and Developmental Biology - Animal. Since 1993, Dr. Sato has devoted himself full-time to the humanitarian effort called 'The Manzanar Project,' named after the camp where his family was interned. The Manzanar Project (http://www.tamu.edu/ccbn/dewitt/manzanar/default.htm) is a global action project offering simple, practical and effective solutions to the planet's most critical problems that include reduction of poverty, hunger, environmental pollution, and global warming through seawater aquaculture and silvaculture in deserts. Its working prototype is located in the Republic of Eritrea. After delivery of this lecture, Dr. Sato was named a 2002 Laureate of the Rolex Awards for Enterprise (http://www.rolexawards.com). The Rolex awards are given to visionary individuals whose unique work impacts the entire planet and human condition.
4293243|Hairy root cultures of Artemisia annua L. were cultivated in three different mist bioreactors, each fitted with three stainless steel meshes. The growth rates in the three 2.3-L mist bioreactors differed. After 25 d, the growth index (final dry weight/initial dry weight) of the roots was 42 in a nutrient mist bioreactor, 61 in an inner-loop nutrient mist bioreactor, and 68 in a modified inner-loop nutrient mist bioreactor. Under a misting cycle of 3/30 (ON 3 min/OFF 30 min) for 25 d, dry weight reached 13.6 g/L of medium in the modified inner-loop nutrient mist bioreactor in which nutrient could be supplied without dilution of mist by air flow.
41432445|Astragalus membranaceus is one of the most widely used traditional medicinal herbs in China, but the time required to generate a useful product in the field production is long. The growth of adventitious root cultures was compared between cultures grown in solid, liquid, or a 5-L balloon-type bubble bioreactor. The maximum growth ratio (final dry weight/initial dry weight) was determined for adventitious roots grown in the bioreactor. Studies carried out to optimize biomass production of adventitious roots compared adventitious root growth from various inoculum root lengths, inoculum densities, and aeration volume in the bioreactors. The maximum growth ratio occurred in treatments with a 1.5-cm inoculum root length, with 30 g (fresh weight) of inoculum per bioreactor or with an aeration volume of 0.1 vvm (air volume/culture medium volume per min). The polysaccharide, saponin, and flavonoid content of roots from bioreactor-grown cultures were compared to roots from field-grown plants grown for 1 and 3 yr. Total polysaccharide content of adventitious roots in the bioreactor (30.0 mg g"  dry weight (DW)) was higher than the roots of 1-yr-old (13.8 mg g"  DW) and 3-yr-old (2. mg g"  DW) plants in the field. Total saponin (3.4 mg g"  DW) and flavonoid (6.4 mg g"  DW) contents were nearly identical to 3-yr-old roots and higher than that of 1-yr-old roots under field cultivation.
20461734|Salinity limits the production capabilities of agricultural soils in large areas of the world. Both breeding and screening germplasm for salt tolerance encounter the following limitations: (a) different phenotypic responses of plants at different growth stages, (b) different physiological mechanisms, (c) complicated genotype  environment interactions, and (d) variability of the salt-affected field in its chemical and physical soil composition. Plant molecular and physiological traits provide the bases for efficient germplasm screening procedures through traditional breeding, molecular breeding, and transgenic approaches. However, the quantitative nature of salinity stress tolerance and the problems associated with developing appropriate and replicable testing environments make it difficult to distinguish salt-tolerant lines from sensitive lines. In order to develop more efficient screening procedures for germplasm evaluation and improvement of salt tolerance, implementation of a rapid and reliable screening procedure is essential. Field selection for salinity tolerance is a laborious task; therefore, plant breeders are seeking reliable ways to assess the salt tolerance of plant germplasm. Salt tolerance in several plant species may operate at the cellular level, and glycophytes are believed to have special cellular mechanisms for salt tolerance. Ion exclusion, ion sequestration, osmotic adjustment, macromolecule protection, and membrane transport system adaptation to saline environments are important strategies that may confer salt tolerance to plants. Cell and tissue culture techniques have been used to obtain salt tolerant plants employing two in vitro culture approaches. The first approach is selection of mutant cell lines from cultured cells and plant regeneration from such cells (somaclones). In vitro screening of plant germplasm for salt tolerance is the second approach, and a successful employment of this method in durum wheat is presented here. Doubled haploid lines derived from pollen culture of F hybrids of salt-tolerant parents are promising tools to further improve salt tolerance of plant cultivars. Enhancement of resistance against both hyper-osmotic stress and ion toxicity may also be achieved via molecular breeding of salt-tolerant plants using either molecular markers or genetic engineering.
4293056|A procedure for bulb formation from onion, garlic, and shallot explants is described. Explants from cut stem bases were cultured in shoot induction medium composed of Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with or without
20541052|The investigation deals with in vitro clonal propagation of L. aestivum L. (summer snowflake), a threatened Amaryllidaceae plant species in Bulgaria used in the pharmaceutical industry as raw material for production of galanthamine-based medicines. Plants of known origin and with different alkaloid profile were taken from the living collection of the Institute of Botany, Sofia. Bulbs were used to initiate in vitro cultures and 24 clones were multiplied. The influence of the clone origin on the propagation coefficient, shoot and bulblet morphology, alkaloid profile and content of galanthamine, lycorine, and four related alkaloids was evaluated. Clones kept stable alkaloid profiles and for most of them, high regeneration rates were noted. Galanthamine content of some clones was commensurable with that of Bulgarian populations of L. aestivum of commercial importance. Five clones: four galanthamine-type and one lycorine-type were selected as promising for further investigation.
4293861|Leaf structure along the successive stages of Early French artichoke Cynara scolymus L. micropropagation was characterized using light and transmission electron microscopy. The mesophyll presents disorganized spongy and palisade parenchyma with large intercellular spaces and a few small chloroplasts in the leaves of plants cultured in vitro. In addition, both epidermal surfaces of such leaves invariably show a cell wall of the same thickness with a very thin cuticle and open stomata. In the root differentiation stage in vitro, structural changes take place in the leaves that are favorable for survival in the acclimatization stage: conspicuous cuticle, greater cell wall thickness, functional stomata, better mesophyll organization, developed vascular bundles, and the presence of sclerenchymatous tissue are observed. These features found in later in vitro stages are maintained in the following ex vitro stages, some becoming more evident. Our results demonstrate that the structural changes required to ensure appropriate acclimatization of micropropagated artichoke plants begin at the root differentiation stage, which can reduce in vivo acclimatization time and achieve greater survival of transferred plants.
4293587|A method of micropropagation through multiple shoot formation from axillary buds of mature tree and rootstock growths of Crataeva adansonii (DC.) Prodr. (a multipurpose tree) has been developed. Factors affecting multiplication rate included season, age of explant source, explant type, type of bud, position of bud on the foliage twig, type of medium, various additives, and explant implantation on the medium. The maximum number of buds was produced from the sixth to 10th axillary buds taken from foliage twigs of 40-50-d-old rootstock growth in the months of October to December. At this time of the year the contamination was minimum. Optimum response was recorded on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 6-benzyladenine (BA;
4293827|The notion that the introduction of alien RNA into an organism can cause the silencing of endogenous genes and transgenes came to light in plants during the last decades of the 20th century. It was based on revealing virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) and on the protection against pathogenic viruses by pre-infection with less pathogenic plant viruses or components of such viruses as well as on co-suppression phenomena. The breakthrough in RNA silencing research was the discovery of Mello, Fire and associates that double-stranded RNAs (dsRNAs) can silence specifically homologous genes in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. The discovery in C. elegans, published in 1998, immediately initiated studies in protozoa, metazoa, fungi, and plants, and similar RNA silencing mechanisms, albeit with some notable differences, were subsequently revealed in almost all eukaryotic organisms in which they were looked for. Investigators dealing with the different organisms were well aware of each others' results and a very active field of study emerged within a few years. Investigators of plant RNA silencing benefited from the findings in other organisms, especially in C. elegans, Drosophila, and mammals, where the protein complexes involved in RNA silencing, such as the Dicer complex and the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC), were studied intensively. The study of RNA silencing in plants followed two avenues. In one avenue the process of initiation of endogenous dsRNA was followed, also the fate and the impact of dsRNA that was introduced into plant cells was investigated. It was found how this dsRNA is cut into ~21 nt fragments and the derived ssRNA of ~21 nt may guide the RISC to cleave specific mRNA sequences. In the other avenue the formation of 'hairpin,' or 'stem loop' RNA sequences, from transcripts of genomic sequences, was investigated. The 'maturation' of these RNA structures into mature microRNA was studied and the possible roles of endogenously formed and introduced microRNAs in the regulation of expression of plant genes were gradually revealed. This review will update the findings in these two avenues.
4293033| Exogenous putrescine (5 mM) had little effect on root or shoot formation in aseptically isolated hypocotyl segments of leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula L.) grown on full-strength B5 medium. Unexpectedly, putrescine inhibited root and shoot formation in hypocotyl segments grown on B5 medium diluted 10-fold. In the full-strength medium, root and shoot formation were inhibited by 0.5 mM concentrations of DL--difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) and DL--difluoromethylarginine (DFMA). DFMO and DFMA are inhibitors of the ornithine decarboxylase and arginine decarboxylase pathways, respectively, of putrescine biosynthesis in plants. Exogenous putrescine (0.5 to 5 mM) did not reverse either the DFMO- or DFMA-induced inhibition of shoot formation. However, the DFMA-induced inhibition of root formation was partially reversed by exogenous putrescine. The auxin, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), reduced the inhibitory effects of DFMO+DFMA (applied together) on both roots and shoots. In the first few days of culture, the endogenous levels of putrescine and spermidine, but not of spermine, increased in the presence of IAA. The levels of putrescine and spermidine in the tissues did not correlate well with either root or shoot production in the later stages of organ formation; especially in tissues treated with IAA. These results show that there were no obvious correlations between polyamine levels and organogenesis in leafy spurge hypocotyl segments, although residual putrescine or spermidine or both in the tissues at the time of excision may be indirectly involved in the early stages of root formation. 
42568809|We developed an efficient Agrobacterium-mediatQd transformation protocol for spinach (Spinacia oleracea L.) that uses root-derived callus. Evaluation of this protocol was based on the systematic evaluation of factors that influence transformation efficiency. Four of the five factors that were tested significantly affected the transformation efficiency, including spinach cultivar, Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain and density, and the duration of co-cultivation. Transgenic spinach plants were generated based on optimized conditions, consisting of callus expiants of the cultivar Gyeowoonae, A. tumefaciens strain EHA105 with OD of 0.2, a co-cultivation period of 4 d, and 100 M acetosyringone supplemented in the inoculation and co-cultivation media. After co-cultivation with A. tumefaciens, expiants were cultured in low-selective and then non-selective conditions to enhance the growth of putative transgenic expiants. Visualization of the fluorescent marker, enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP), was used to select transgenic expiants at several stages, including callus, somatic cotyledonary embryo, and plantlet. The best results for fluorescence visualization screening were obtained at the somatic cotyledonary embryo stage. On average, 24.96  6.05% of the initial calli regenerated shoots that exhibited EGFP fluorescence. The putative transgenic plants were subjected to -glucuronidase (GUS)-staining assay, phosphinothricin acetyltransferase (PAT) strip test, and molecular analyses to assess the transgene incorporation into plant genome and its expression. All EGFP-positive plants tested were confirmed to be transgenic by GUS-staining assay, PAT strip test, and molecular analyses. The transformation system described in this study could be a practical and powerful technique for functional genetic analysis and genetic modification of spinach.
4292937|Cereal leaf protoplasts are extremely difficult to culture (recalcitrant) in vitro. There have been few reports of division and the protoplasts typically exhibit excessive enlargement and vacuolization with reduced cell wall deposition. Inasmuch as leaf base explants are capable of callus formation in vitro, protoplasts derived from this tissue must have lost the ability to divide as a consequence of changes induced by the wall-digestion process. We review evidence suggesting that the inhibition of mitosis in these protoplasts is a consequence of a cascade of events initiated at the plasma membrane. The enzyme treatment necessary for wall removal triggers membrane depolarization and other changes that can lead to the initiation of lipid peroxidation and oxidative stress. Mitotically inactive cereal leaf protoplasts are unable to mount a protective response to these degradative processes. Consequently, the resulting membrane perturbations and permeabilization give rise to secondary effects on the cytoskeleton and the cell wall. These effects include reduced or absent microtubules as well as reduced and uneven wall deposition. Such abnormalities are observed in cereal leaf protoplasts and are sufficient to account for recalcitrance because the occurrence of mitosis is strongly dependent on a normal cell wall and cytoskeleton.
4293364|DNA shuffling is a technique being utilized for in vitro recombination of a single gene or pools of homologous genes. The genes are fragmented into randomly sized pieces, and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) reassembly of full-length genes from the fragments, via self-priming, yields recombination due to PCR template switching. After these PCR products are screened and the interesting products sequenced, improved clones are reshuffled to recombine useful mutations in additive or synergistic ways, in effect mimicking the process of natural sexual recombination. Proteins can be 'bred' with the appropriate individual properties and then their 'progeny' screened for the desired combination of traits. DNA shuffling is a powerful tool enabling rapid and directed evolution of new genes, operons and whole viral genomes.
4292941|Somaclonal variation for quantitative traits could affect the practical utilization of regenerants in cotton improvement. Three groups of experimental lines were derived to analyze variation, including one control group from the explant-source cultivar and two groups of R
20461640|Nodular meristematic callus was induced on the basal cut surface of apical shoot explants of salvia cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 4.5, 13.5, or 22.5 M thidiazuron (TDZ). Cultures were incubated in the dark for 1 wk and then transferred to light conditions for 4 wk. A higher percentage of explants developing callus was observed on medium containing either 4.5 or 13.5 M TDZ, although explants on 4.5 M developed larger calluses. The callus was maintained on medium containing 4.5 M TDZ and 0.45 mM ascorbic acid. Shoot differentiation, after each of three successive maintenance passages, was induced from callus grown on medium containing either 4.4 or 8.8 M benzyladenine (BA). A greater number of shoots were harvested from callus differentiated on BA (4.4 or 8.8 M) medium with 0.45 mM ascorbic acid added. Shoots developed roots on MS medium supplemented with 4.9 M of indole-3-butyric acid. The addition of ascorbic acid to the shoot differentiation medium enhanced rooting, number of roots per shoot, and survival rate. Approximately 75% in vitro plantlets were acclimatized to ex vitro conditions. Histological investigations confirmed both adventitious meristem initiation during the callus induction phase, and subsequent organogenic shoot development on the differentiation medium. The novel protocol for the meristematic callus induction and plant regeneration in this study may be useful for biotechnological applications for salvia improvement via genetic transformation or mutagenesis and in vitro propagation approaches.
4293079|Chickpea was micropropagated by axillary shoot proliferation (ASP) and modified single node culture (MSNC) methods. Maximum propagule proliferation occurred on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium enriched with
4293346|We have established an in vitro system for the induction and study of nodulation in Pachyrhizus erosus (jicama) via a hairy root-Rhizobium coculture. In vitro-grown P. erosus plantlets were infected with Agrobacterium rhizogenes (ATCC No. 15834) and two hairy root lines were established. Hairy roots were grown in a split-plate system in which compartment I (CI) contained MS medium with nitrogen and different sucrose levels (0-6%), while CII held MS medium without nitrogen and sucrose. Nodule-like structures developed in transformed roots grown in CI with 2-3% sucrose, inoculated with Rhizobium sp. and transferred to CII. Nodule-like structures that developed from hairy roots lacked the rigid protective cover observed in nodules from plants grown in soil. Western blot analysis of nodules from hairy roots and untransformed roots (of greenhouse-grown jicama) showed expression of glutamine synthetase, leghemoglobin and nodulins. Leghemoglobin was expressed at low levels in hairy root nodules.
4293753|The cucurbit family includes a number of valuable crop species (melon, cucumber, squash/pumpkin, watermelon). Much of this review is concerned with transgenic resistance to viruses, shown to be the major application of biotechnology in the cucurbit family. Progress made with the production of transgenic cucurbit crops is discussed. Published data on field tests of transgenic cucurbits are reviewed, showing that much progress has been made with multiple virus-resistant cucurbit crops which can be productive without chemical control of insect virus vectors. Modes of virus resistance in transgenic cucurbits are discussed, as is the bio-safety of such crops. For the first time a detailed analysis has been made of world-wide and US field test applications for cucurbit crops. World-wide, most field test applications were for melon (54%), followed by squash (32%). World-wide most field test applications were for virus resistance (84%), and most applications (77%) were in the USA. Two transgenic multiple virus-resistant squash crops have been deregulated (released for sale). Additionally, the analysis shows that there are transgenic multiple virus-resistant crops in all major cucurbit species already available, for which several different companies have applied for field tests. This would imply that such crops are ready to be marketed should conditions permit, which would have an impact world-wide in reduction of ecological damage due to chemical control of the insect viral vectors.
20065000|TDZ (N-phenyl-N-1,2,3-thidiazol-5-ylurea) is a substituted phenylurea compound which was developed for mechanized harvesting of cotton bolls and has now emerged as a highly efficacious bioregulant of morphogenesis in the tissue culture of many plant species. Application of TDZ induces a diverse array of cultural responses ranging from induction of callus to formation of somatic embryos. TDZ exhibits the unique property of mimicking both auxin and cytokinin effects on growth and differentiation of cultured explants, although structurally it is different from either auxins or purine-based cytokinins. A number of physiological and biochemical events in cells are likely to be influenced by TDZ, but these may or may not be directly related to the induction of morphogenic responses, and hence, the mode of action of TDZ is unknown. However, the recent approaches applied to study the morphogenic events initiated by TDZ are clearly beginning to reveal the details of a variety of underlying mechanisms. Various reports indicate that TDZ may act through modulation of the endogenous plant growth regulators, either directly or as a result of induced stress. The other possibilities include the modification in cell membranes, energy levels, nutrient uptake, or nutrient assimilation. In this review, several of these possibilities are presented and discussed in light of recently published studies on characterization of TDZ-induced morphogenic effects.
4293416| Excised tissues from transverse young stem sections of Lilium longiflorum were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with growth regulators at various concentrations. After 45 d in culture, the presence of -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) in the culture medium at 5.4 M resulted in bulblet formation while 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) at 2.2 M resulted in root formation. The presence of IBA (indole-3-butyric acid) in the culture medium at 1.0 M resulted in shoot formation while plantlet formation occurred when IBA was added at a concentration of 2.0 M. When l-phenyl-3-(1,2,3-thiadiazol-5-yl)-urea (TDZ) was added to the culture medium at 1.1 M, protocorm-like bodies (PLBs) formed, while 2.2 M resulted in shoot formation (on abaxial and adaxial surfaces). The presence of NAA and TDZ in the culture medium at 5.4 M and 0.4, 1.1 or 2.2 M, respectively, resulted in somatic embryo formation while NAA- and 6-benzylaminopurine- (BA) containing culture medium formed callus or bulblets. The establishment of different regeneration systems when explants are exposed to various growth regulators demonstrates that the choice of growth regulator combinations and concentrations are of significance in determining the morphogenetic response and plant regeneration capacity. 
4293040| Aiming at the genetic improvement of garlic cultivars, a cell suspension protocol was established which includes the induction of friable callus, establishment of cells in liquid medium, plating, regeneration, and bulb formation. Calluses of various textures from compact to friable and from green to yellowish were obtained by culturing explants excised from inner leaves of garlic bulbs on Marashig-Shoog (MS) medium with 2,4 dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4-D), (1.1 mg/liter [5.0 M]), picloram (1.2 mg/liter [5.0 M]), and kinetin (2.1 mg/liter [10 M]). Friable callus occurred on MS-A contained 2,4-D alone (1.0 mg/liter [4.52 M]) and this callus was used to develop cell suspension cultures, which were maintained in liquid MS-B medium with a 2,4-D/benzyl adenine (BA) (0.5 mg/liter [2.25 M]: 0.5 mg/liter [2.22 M]) ratio. High plating efficiency was obtained on MS-C medium with different naphthalene acetic acid/BA combinations. Regeneration occurred after transfer of the caulogenic mass to MS-C medium containing 10 mg/liter (74.02 M) and 20 mg/liter (148.04 M) adenine for 60 days, followed by transfer to adenine-free medium. Plantlets transplanted to soil showed normal phenology. Shoots grown on modified MS medium supplemented with indolylbutryic acid (3.0 mg/liter [14.7 M]) stimulated bulb formation by 30 days in culture. 
23321159|Embryogenic callus induction and plant regeneration systems have long been established for creeping bentgrass (Agrostis palustris Huds.), but little research has been reported on optimal medium for embryogenic callus induction and plant regeneration in velvet bentgrass (Agrostis canina L.), colonial bentgrass (Agrostis capillaries L.), and annual bluegrass (Poa annua L.). The present study compared 14 callus induction media and eight regeneration media for their efficacies on embryogenic callus induction and plant regeneration in these four species. The embryogenic callus initiation media contained the Murashige and Skoog inorganic salts and vitamins supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid or 3,6-dichloro-anisic acid and 6-benzyladenine. L-Proline or casein hydrolyzate was included in some media to stimulate embryogenic callus formation and plant regeneration. The frequencies of embryogenic callus formation ranged from 0% to 38% and exhibited medium differences within each of the four species. Callus induction media, plant regeneration media, and genotypes affected plant regeneration rates, which varied between 0% and 100%. The embryogenic callus induced on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 500 mg l-1 casein hydrolyzate, 6.63 mg l-1 (30 M) 3,6-dichloro-anisic acid and 0.52.0 mg l-1 (29 M) 6-benzyladenine had much higher regeneration rates than those formed on other callus induction media. Embryogenic callus of annual bluegrass had higher regeneration rates than those of bentgrass species. MSA2D, a media containing 2 mg l-1 (8 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 100 mg l-1 myo-inositol, and 150 mg l-1 asparagine, was effective in promoting embryogenic callus formation in creeping bentgrass but not in colonial and velvet bentgrasses and annual bluegrass.
20541006|Apple rootstock MM106 shoots, raised in vitro, rooted at 96.7% after culture on a medium supplemented with an auxin for 5 d in darkness followed by culture on a second medium without growth regulators for 25 d in light. In control conditions (in absence of auxin in the first medium), these shoots did not root. Putrescine (PUT), spermidine (SPD), cyclohexylamine (CHA), and aminoguanidine (AG) enhanced rooting when applied during the first d of culture in the absence of IBA; on the contrary, -difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) added to the first medium with IBA inhibited rooting. The endogenous levels of indole 3-acetic acid (IAA) and indole 3-acetylaspartic acid (IAAsp) increased up to a maximum concentration at days 2 and 3, respectively, in initial rooting conditions. PUT, when added with IBA, did not affect the typical IAA and IAAsp increase; when applied alone, it provoked an increase of their levels. Similar results were recorded with CHA. SPD, AG, and DFMO did not induce an increase of IAA and IAAsp in nonrooting conditions. The levels of endogenous PUT increased to a maximum at day 2 in rooting conditions; it was slightly affected by exogenous PUT and CHA application but reduced by SPD, AG, and DFMO. In rooting conditions, if the first medium was supplemented with SPD or AG, a small increase in peroxidase activity was observed, similar to that obtained with PUT treatment. The present work indicates an involvement of polyamines in the control of rooting and an interaction with auxins during the physiological phase of rooting. The consequence of this relationship was a different rooting expression, according especially to the content of these regulators in the culture medium.
4293322|Shoot cultures of Hedyotis corymbosa, a C3 species, and sugarcane, a C4 species, were used to examine the effects of various CO
20064846|Aeration of tissue cultured rare Australian plants Conostylis wonganensis S. D. Hopper (Haemodoraceae); Diplolaena andrewsii Ostenf.; Drummondita ericoides Harvey (Rutaceae); Eremophila resinosa F. Muell. (Myoporaceae); Eucalyptus 'graniticola' (Myrtaceae); Lechenaultia pulvinaris C. Gardner (Goodeniaceae); and Sowerbaea multicaulis E. Pritzel (Liliaceae) has been found to reduce vitrification in sensitive species as well as significantly improving shoot quality and transfer to soil in most study species. A simple 7-mm hole with a double-layer insert of filter paper in the polypropylene screw lids of the culture vessel decreased shoot vitrification over a 4-wk culture period. The method has implications for facilitating the tissue culture of other rare Australian plants and reducing the occurrence of this developmental abnormality.
29736169|This study describes the development of electrofusion techniques using the 'donor-recipient' model for the production of cybrids between common cultivated winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cv. Jinghua No. 1 and a phylogenetically remote, sexually incompatible grass species, Italian ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum Lam.), which belong to two different subtribes: Triticinae and Loliinae. Wheat protoplasts were metabolically inactivated by iodoacetamide before fusion, while protoplasts of Italian ryegrass were X-ray irradiated before protoplast isolation. The suspension cells were directly used to optimize the inactivation parameters. By exploring the minimum irreversible membrane breakdown strength, the electrofusion parameters were optimized just a few minutes before electrofusion began. A total of 108 green plantlets were obtained, and about half of the green plants uncontrollably necrotized. Among all green plants, 14 were rooted normally and transplanted in growth chamber or field and developed to maturity. All these transplanted plants were male sterile with smaller and off-white anthers. Seeds were obtained by crossing with Jinghua No. 1. Three transplanted regenerants possessed the characteristics of glume facing the rachis, which was the taxonomic characteristic distinguishing the two subtribes of Triticinae and Loliinae. Although Southern blot hybridization analysis of 33 randomly selected regenerants using a wheat ribosomal DNA probe (pHA71) did not find any differences to wheat, analysis using two mitochondrial probes B342 (cox I), 490 (Pro II) and one chloroplastidic probe pHvc P5 revealed that 31 plants were 'true cybrids' by showing ryegrass-specific band(s) or new band(s). It also showed that the mitochondria and chloroplasts were not coexistent as the restriction fragment length polymorphism band of Italian ryegrass was not detected by the mitochondrial probes 7 (26s), B342 (cox I), pHJ2-7-1 (cox II), B30 (atp9), and the chloroplast probe pHvc P5. To regenerate the cybrids, the regeneration capacity of the recipient (wheat) was crucial in this study.
4293563|To improve the efficiency of somatic embryogenesis of isolated scutella from commercial wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars, two factorial experiments were conducted to examine effects of days post anthesis (DPA), days of spike storage (DSS) at 4 C, and sucrose concentrations (SC) on the percentage of scutella producing mature embryos and the number of mature embryos produced per responsive scutellum. In the first experiment, scutella isolated from spikes collected at 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 16 DPA and stored at 4 C for 7, 10, 13, and 16 d were placed on embryo induction medium [Murashige and Skoog plus
4293505|Lilies are one of the most valuable bulbous ornamental cut flower crops and are commercially propagated by conventional scaling, which results in varied bulb quality. This article demonstrates the effectiveness of using specific organ sources in conjunction with the thin cell layer (TCL) system to establish successful organogenic and somatic embryogenic pathways in Lilium longiflorum. TCLs derived from different explant sources, such as receptacle, leaf, young stem, stem node, bulblets, pseudo-bulblets, shoot and somatic embryos, respectively, can be manipulated to form different organs. Furthermore, the choice of plant growth regulator and medium additives such as activated charcoal and sucrose strongly affect the success of the process. This article further highlights that transient transgene expression derived from either particle bombardment or Agro-infection is both strong and repeatable, as a result of the direct exposure of competent cells to the gene introduction method, resulting in a reduction of escapes. The ability to manipulate and control organogenesis through a TCL system, coupled with repeatable, efficient transformation opens up the possibility of micropropagating members of this genus with new and available characteristics, producing superior plants of high quality.
23016598|In vitro methods provide opportunities for propagating and preserving endangered plant species when seed-based methods are not adequate. Such species include those that produce few or no seeds, as well as species with recalcitrant seeds. Tissue culture propagation methods can be used to produce such plants for reintroduction, research, education, display, and commerce. They can also be the basis for tissue banking as a way to preserve genetic diversity when seeds cannot be banked. With some recalcitrant species, embryo banking, a method which also utilizes in vitro culture for recovery germination, is possible. The number of endangered species that will require in vitro methods is estimated to be at least 5,000 worldwide. Further information is needed to identify these species, and the ongoing collection of information into databases on endangered species and recalcitrant species will help provide this. The costs of these methods are higher than for traditional propagation and preservation, but they may be necessary for species under higher threat. The multiplication rate of a culture, as well as the rates of rooting and acclimatization, has a major effect on the number of transfers needed for producing plants or tissue for banking, and improvements that will increase the efficiency of these steps can help lower costs. Further research into factors affecting the growth of tissues in vitro, as well as coordination of efforts among institutions with infrastructure for in vitro work, should facilitate the application of in vitro methods to the endangered species that cannot be propagated or preserved using seeds.
41496504|Efficient shoot regeneration and Agrobacterium mediated genetic transformation systems were developed for Bacopa monnieri L. (Scrophulariaceae), a plant well known for its medicinal properties. Leaf expiants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with different concentrations of 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP), and in combination with either indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) or napthalene-3-acetic acid. A combination of BAP (17.80 M) and IAA (2.28 M) maximized shoot initiation (85.2  2.43) with greatest shoot length (2.8  0.22), and was obtained directly from leaf expiants without an intervening callus phase. Leaf segments from in vitro grown plants were co-cultivated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens LBA4404 harboring pCAMBIAHOl with -glucuronidase (uidA) and hygromycin phosphotransferase (hpt) genes. The co-cultivated expiants were transferred to selective shoot induction and elongation medium. The elongated hygromycin-resistant shoots were subsequently rooted on MS medium supplemented with 4.9 M indole-3 -butyric acid and 25 mg/l hygromycin (SSRM). Successful transformation was confirmed by monitoring histochemical GUS activity during shoot elongation and PCR analyses using uidA-and hpt-specific primers. Integration of hpt into the genome of transgenic plants was also verified by Southern blot analysis. The highest transformation efficiency achieved was 70.6%, with an average of 10.40.15 transgenic plantlets per expiant using the present transformation system. Therefore, these highly efficient and rapid regeneration and transformation systems create significant potential for engineering of B. monnieri with a view to detailed biomolecular analyses or for further enhancement of its medicinal properties. blot analysis. The highest transformation efficiency achieved was 70.6%, with an average of 10.40.15 transgenic plantlets per expiant using the present transformation system. Therefore, these highly efficient and rapid regeneration and transformation systems create significant potential for engineering of B. monnieri with a view to detailed biomolecular analyses or for further enhancement of its medicinal properties.
4292943|Cultures of Digitalis obscura L. were established from axillary buds of mature plants or leaves of seedlings obtained under aseptic conditions. Explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium containing benzyladenine and/or naphthaleneacetic acid. Shoot proliferation from axillary buds was not affected by seasonal fluctuations in the stock plants and increased relative to the cytokinin concentration, but auxin reduced the multiplication rate. Differentiation of somatic embryos and adventitious buds from cultured leaves required naphthaleneacetic acid alone or combined with benzyladenine, respectively. Cardenolide pattern and content of the regenerated plants were determined by high performance liquid chromatography and radioimmunoassay, respectively. Several cardenolides of series A and C were identified in the regenerants; no significant differences were found in the cardenolide patterns. Digoxigenin derivatives were found in all clonally propagated plants, but the amount of these glycosides was much higher in those obtained from axillary buds. This is the first report on micropropagation of D. obscura from mature plants.
41318719|Plants were regenerated by shoot multiplication from four clones of Melia azedarach L. during 12 mo. of subculturing. One hundred and one of these plants were examined by randomly amplified polymorphic DNA analysis. All regenerated plants showed at least one polymorphism. However, no chromosome number alterations were observed. The pattern of variation obtained by principal coordinated analysis showed a random distribution of variation among regenerated plants and their controls, indicating that genetic alterations were not cumulative during in vitro culture. Similar results were found using Shannon's index, which revealed that 50% of the observed diversity resided among plants coming from the same subculture generation. This high intraclonal variation does not provide a clear scenario for predicting the amount of culture time required to preserve genetic fidelity in commercially micropropagated M. azedarach plants. Our work suggests that other mechanisms, such as chimerism, contribute to intraclonal heterogeneity in vitro.
4293104|The androgenic ability of four Medicago sativa L. genotypes (Boynitza 5, Byala, 494, and 3815) was tested. Callus and organogenesis were induced in all lines studied. The percentage of anthers producing calluses and organogenesis showed wide variation (calluses-from 11% up to 77%; organogenesis-4.8% to 15.2%). It has been established that genotype, nutrient medium composition, and stage of pollen development considerably affected both callus production and organogenesis. Androgenesis in M. sativa could be achieved via callus and direct embryogenesis. About 500 morphologically different regenerants were obtained. Wide variability in chromosome number of regenerated plants was observed by cytological studies. Haploid, dihaploid, as well as mixoploid plants were obtained.
4293091|A protocol based on shoot cultures of 1-mo.-old seedlings was developed for rapid asexual multiplication of eucommia, the source of an antihypertensive medicinal. The expiant is an excised shoot tip, 3-5 mm tall. MS basal medium supplemented with 1 mg/liter BA is employed to establish primary cultures and subsequently multiply shoots. Shoots are subculturable on the same medium and can be increased at a rate of 7.5 new shoots per 2-shoot sector every 3 wk. Rooting is achieved in a Gelrite medium with the MS salts reduced to 1/3 strength and the BA replaced by 0.1 mg/liter NAA. The method is not directly applicable to mature trees. Applicability will require expiants from rejuvenated sources, possibly attainable by the method of repeated grafting of shoot apices onto juvenile rootstocks, repeated subculturing of shoots, or culturing shoot apical meristems.
4293236| The influence of a variety of parameters was investigated on polyethylene glycol (PEG)-mediated transient nptII and gus gene expression in mesophyll protoplasts of Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype, Estland, in order to develop a suitable transient gene expression system. The investigation revealed that a combination of 20% PEG, incubation time of 15 min, 20-30 g plasmid concentration per ml along with 50 g carrier DNA m/l, and inclusion of calcium and magnesium ions during transfection followed by a culture period of 24 h registered maximum NPTII activity. Of the various promoters used for driving expression of the gus gene, the ubiquitin promoter from A. thaliana was the most efficient followed by 35S promoter of the CaMV and the actin promoter of rice. For comparison, similar studies in protoplasts of rice, wheat, and Brassica also revealed the differences in strength of these promoters. Arabidopsis ubiquitin promoter was the most effective in Brassica, and the rice actin 1 promoter was the most effective in rice and wheat. 
4293658| Shoot apex, nodal, and leaf explants of Stevia rebaudiana Bertoni can regenerate shoots when cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 6-benzyladenine (BA; 8.87 M) and indole-3-acetic acid (5.71 M). Rooting of the in vitro-derived shoots could be achieved following subculture onto auxin-containing medium. A survival rate of 70% was recorded at the hardening phase on the substrate cocopeat. The presence of the sweet diterpene glycosides, viz. stevioside and rebaudioside, was confirmed in the in vitro-derived tissues of Stevia using HPTLC techniques. Callus cultured on agar-solidified MS medium supplemented with BA (8.87 M) and indole-3-butyric acid (9.80 M) showed the highest sweetener content. 
4293482|Plant survival ex vitro requires functioning stomata, adequate cuticular wax composition and deposition, and normal morphological development. Light intensity, CO
42568808|Low frequency of green plant production and albinism limits the use of isolated microspore culture (IMC) in cereal breeding programs. The present study was conducted in triticale and bread wheat IMC to increase the production of green plants and minimize albinism. NPB-99 + 10% Ficoll induction medium was supplemented with mitochondrial or plastid antioxidants, in a completely random design, to evaluate their contribution to successful microspore embryogenesis and green plant production. Each group of antioxidants was tested independently: first in triticale and then validated in various spring wheat genotypes. While the response differed by wheat genotype, induction medium supplemented with proline (10 mM) yielded a greater number of embryos/embryo-like structures and green plants in both triticale and wheat. No differences were found with respect to albinism in triticale or wheat except for the cv. Sadash. Among plastid antioxidants tested, glutathione (2 M) proved to be the best antioxidant to increase embryo and green plant production. Salicylic acid also helped to reduce the number of albino plants in triticale and the wheat genotype SWS366. Overall, induction medium supplemented with proline or glutathione enhanced microspore embryogenesis in both triticale and wheat and increased the number of green plants in the recalcitrant genotypes.
20065035|Jasmonic acid (JA) effects on in vitro tuberization of potato nodal explants cvs. Sangre and Russet Burbank were tested under liquid and solid media conditions and 0, 8, and 16 h photoperiod. Explants taken from stock plants grown on 2.5 M JA-supplemented medium tuberized first, particularly in darkness. The most pronounced benefits of the JA pretreatment were recorded under 16 h photoperiod, which is known to inhibit tuberization. Cultivar Sangre benefited from the JA preconditioning of stock plants more than Russet Burbank. Russet Burbank required the JA supplement in tuberization media to reach the same degree of stimulation. Overall, microtubers produced either from JA preconditioned stock plants or on the JA-containing tuberization media were more uniform and larger than from other treatments. Eight hours photoperiod was by far the best treatment for the production of high-quality uniform microtubers. JA conditioning of stock plants prior to taking explants for tuberization is being proposed as a treatment enhancing the quality of microtubers.
20171618| Regeneration of adventitious shoots of pothos (Epipremnum aureum Linden and Andre) 'Jade' was obtained using leaf and petiole explants prepared from shoot tips of 3-yr-old greenhouse-grown plants. Explants were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with thidiazuron (TDZ), 6-(4-hydroxy-3-methy-trans-2-butenyl-amino)purine(zeatin) or N-isopentenylaminopurine (2iP) individually with -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) in 18 combinations. Callus was initiated from cut surfaces and along the midrib or major vein of leaf sections. Shoot regeneration from leaf and petiole explants occurred in 30 d on medium containing 1, 5, or 10 M TDZ with 0.5 or 1.0 M NAA except petioles on medium with 10 M TDZ and 1.0 M NAA where regeneration failed. More time (50 d) was needed for shoot regeneration when explants were cultured on medium containing either 2iP or zeatin with NAA. Regeneration frequencies were up to 20% and 50% for leaf and petiole explants, respectively. Shoot numbers per responding explant attained 30 for leaf and petiole explants on medium containing TDZ but only one to four on medium containing either 2iP or zeatin. These results indicate that TDZ is a more effective cytokinin for in vitro regeneration of pothos than either zeatin or 2iP. Shoots elongated readily and rooted well on MS basal medium without plant growth regulators. Plantlets acclimatized rapidly and grew vigorously in the greenhouse after transfer to pots containing a commercial potting medium. 
4292949|Micropropagated plants both from angiosperms (bamboo, birch, eucalyptus, tamarind, teak, willow) and gymnosperms (Douglas-fir, loblolly pine, Monterey pine, and redwood) have been established in the field. Plantlets were regenerated from juvenile explants (via adventitious or axillary buds) as well as explants from mature trees [apical and axillary buds (nodal segments)]. Plantlets regenerated from adventitious buds tend to show early maturation traits (Douglas fir, loblolly pine, Monterey pine). A population of selected clones showed superior performance and yield over seedlings derived from the same trees. Increased biomass production was obtained with plantlets derived from tissue culture of Eucalyptus spp. when compared to seedlings. No morphologic variation was observed in micropropagated plants. Plantlets derived from tissue culture grew very uniformly. Early flowering was observed with plantlets derived from tissue culture (tamarind, teak).
4293308|Somatic embryos initiate and develop directly from single mesophyll cells in in vitro-cultured leaf segments of orchardgrass (Dactylis glomerata L.). Embryogenic cells establish themselves in the predivision stage by formation of thicker cell walls and dense cytoplasm. Electron microscopy observations for embryos ranging from the pre-cell-division stage to 20-cell proembryos confirm previous light microscopy studies showing a single cell origin. They also confirm that the first division is predominantly periclinal and that this division plane is important in establishing embryo polarity and in determining the embryo axis. If the first division is anticlinal or if divisions are in random planes after the first division, divisions may not continue to produce an embryo. This result may produce an embryogenic cell mass, callus formation, or no structure at all.
4293788|Scientific photography is an important facet of plant tissue culture. The aim of photography in plant tissue culture should be to illustrate clearly the developmental stages occurring in vitro. However, the photographic results presented in publications are often poor, and morphogenetic responses are often not clearly documented. Plant tissue culture is a very visual science, and the valuable tool of photography is often not used properly. If the morphogenetic responses are not well documented, an important part of the research is missed, and the report ends up having limited scientific value. Simple methods for improving the results of photography in plant tissue culture are discussed, along with photographic equipment, photomacrography, stereophotomicrography, suitable backgrounds for photography, use of a digital scanner, and the construction of photographic plates.
4293105| Curculigo orchioides is an endangered anticarcinogenic herb. It is available only during the monsoon season, which lasts approximately 4 mo. each year. In vitro culture of the plant can ensure its availability throughout the year. Leaf explants of Curculigo orchioides cultured on a Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium without cytokinins produced a limited number of plantlets that originated directly from the cut end of the midrib. 6-Benzyladenine (BA) (0.44-6.66 M) was needed to produce plantlets from rhizome explants. A higher concentration of BA (2.22-4.44 M) resulted in nodular callus that when transferred to cytokinin-free medium formed shoots. The shoots were rooted on media supplemented with either (0.54-5.37 M) of 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) (0.57-5.71 M) of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), or (0.49-4.90 M) indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). Plantlets were kept in sterile sand for 3-4 d and then transferred to soil. 
41318709|Flower buds and anthers of the short-day plant Pharbitis nil were treated either with thermic shock (7 or 35C) or osmotic/trophic shock (12% sucrose) for 24 h. Expiants were transferred either to Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) with addition of 6-benzylaminopurine (BA; 4.4 M) and 6% sucrose or to the same growth medium containing 22 M BA and 3% sucrose. Both media were supplemented with a-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA; 0.55 M). Osmotic/trophic shock stimulated the occurrence of shoots on flower buds grown on medium containing 22 M BA. Thermic shock (7 and 35C) inhibited this process on both types of expiants. Regenerated plantlets were transferred to MS medium supplemented with 6% sucrose, gibberellic acid (GA 1.44 M), NAA (0.55 M) and Ca (O.66mg1).After 3 -4 wk they were able to produce flowers without photoperiodic induction.
42568712|Previously, Panax ginseng var. Mimaki C.A. Meyer had been shown to accumulate genetic mutations during long-term propagation of a callus culture over a period of 20 yr. In this study, we analyzed the mutation types and frequency in a 2-yr-old P. ginseng callus culture and compared it with the 20-yr-old callus culture, and leaves of cultivated plants. We analyzed the sequence variability between the Actin genes, which are a family of housekeeping genes; phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) and dammarenediol synthase (DDS), which actively participate in the biosynthesis of ginsenosides; and the somatic embryogenesis receptor kinases (SERK), which control plant development. The frequency of point mutations in the Actin, PAL, DDS, and SERK genes in the 2-yr-old P. ginseng callus culture was markedly higher than in cultivated plants, but lower than in the 20-yr-old callus culture. Most of the mutations in the 2-yr-old P. ginseng calli were AG and TC transitions, as in the 20-yr-old calli and intact P. ginseng plants. The number of nonsynonymous mutations was higher in the 2-and 20-yr-old callus cultures than the number of nonsynonymous mutations in cultivated P. ginseng. Interestingly, the total number of NG or NC substitutions in the analyzed genes was 1.6 times higher than the total number of NA or NT substitutions. Using a methylation-sensitive DNA fragmentation assay, we showed the level of methylcytosine to be higher in the DNA of the 20-yr-old P. ginseng calli that than in the DNA of the 2-yr-old cultures.
4293238|A system for micropropagation of Epimedium grandiflorum Morr. from rachis expiants was developed. Expiants were cultured onto Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal salts medium supplemented with (per L) 100 mg myo-inositol, 2 mg pyridoxine-HCl, 2 mg nicotinic acid, 0.40 mg thiamine-HCl, 30 g sucrose, and 2 g Phytagel. The medium also contained 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) at 0.1, 0.2, or 0.25 mg/L (0.5, 0.9, or
20461735|Polyamines are ubiquitous polycationic compounds that mediate fundamental aspects of cell growth, differentiation, and cell death in eukaryotic and prokaryotic organisms. In plants, polyamines are implicated in a variety of growth and developmental processes, in addition to abiotic and biotic stress responses. In the last decade, mutant studies conducted predominantly in Arabidopsis thaliana revealed on obligatory requirement for polyamines in zygotic and somatic embryogenesis. Moreover, our appreciation for the intricate spatial and temporal regulation of intracellular polyamine levels has advanced considerably. The exact molecular mechanism(s) through which polyamines exert their physiological response remains somewhat enigmatic and likely serves as a major area for future research efforts. In the following review, we discuss recent advances in the plant polyamine field, which range from metabolism and mutant characterization to molecular genetics and potential mode(s) of polyamine action during growth and development in vitro and in vivo. This review will also focus on the specific role of polyamines during embryogenesis and organogenesis.
29736182|Plant regeneration of Prunus salicina (Japanese plum) using mature seeds was studied and evaluated. Shoots were effectively induced from hypocotyl slices of mature seeds on media containing cytokinins. Among three plant growth regulators evaluated, thidiazuron (TDZ) was the most effective for shoot induction overall. Shoots were also induced using 6-benzylaminopurine (BA), but the effectiveness was reduced at low concentrations. Low regeneration was induced using kinetin. Three plum varieties were evaluated and the regeneration appeared to be genotype dependent. Induced shoots elongated, roots formed, and plantlets developed upon transfer of the shoots to the rooting medium. Primary shoots, when sub-cultured on fresh induction medium, produced multiple shoots, and such multiplication could continue for more cycles. The plantlets were transferred to soil, and the full plants were readily recovered in a greenhouse. The regeneration process was relatively fast as plants could be recovered in 4 to 5 mo. after the culture initiation.
4292955|Plant regeneration via somatic embryogenesis was obtained in peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) from axes of mature zygotic embryos. The area of greatest embryogenic activity was a 2-mm region adjacent to and encircling the epicotyl. Somatic embryogenesis was evaluated on Murashige and Skoog media supplemented with a variety of auxin treatments. Maximum production occurred on medium supplemented with
20064972|A method of propagation through nodal culture was developed for Virginia round-leaf birch, Betula uber (Ashe) Fernald. Nodal cultures of Virginia round-leaf birch had the greatest shoot elongation on woody plant medium supplemented with 7.5 M benzyladenine and 2.9 M gibberellin-3. Shoot elongation was significantly greater when benzyladenine was combined with gibberellin-3 than with benzyladenine alone. In conjunction with propagation, anatomical changes in cuticle and stomata were examined at different stages of culture. Changes in stomatal length, stomatal density, cuticle thickness, and palisade parenchyma layers were noted during the various stages of culture. Propagation through nodal culture provides a feasible method by which Virginia round-leaf birch can be propagated and maintained. The same techniques may be applicable to other endangered hardwood species.
4293700|Germination of coconut (Cocos nucifera L.) zygotic embryos was tested in liquid or solid medium. Percent germination was greater when embryos were cultured in solid medium, particularly when embryos were placed with their micropyle end facing upwards in relation to the vial orientation, independently of orientation in relation to gravity. This occurred because solid medium allowed embryos to be positioned with their micropyle end exposed to the ambient atmosphere of the vial. Germination of embryos facing upwards was suppressed when the ambient atmosphere was replaced with N
23016607|Cotton ovule cultures have obvious advantages over whole plants when experimental protocols call for inhibitors, radio-labeled precursors or controlled environmental conditions to be tested. The responses of ovule expansion growth and attached fiber elongation to external factors require accurate measurement techniques. This paper presents a new method for digital image analysis of the growth area of cotton ovules with fibers at high resolution. The method was characterized under constant conditions and during dynamic responses to different levels of ABA (abscisic acid) treatment. The growth area was treated as area occupied within the outline of the Petri dish image of the growing ovule with fibers. Growth area increase showed the same trends as fiber length increase and was significantly correlated with the fiber length increase under different levels of ABA treatment (r2 = 0.97). This new analysis method provides a simple, noninvasive, and more accurate approach for growth analysis in the cotton ovule culture system. Using this method, the effects of ABA on expansion growth of ovule with fibers were characterized.
20064858|The morphogenetic capacity of mature Juniperus oxycedrus L. leaves cultured in vitro has been studied, noting nutritive, hormonal, and environmental factors inducing differentiation and development of adventitious shoots. Bud primordia formed directly from the leaves. Highest bud differentiation rates were obtained when the explants were cultured for at least 21 days on a modified Schenk and Hildebrandt solidified medium containing 0.5 M benzyladenine under a 16-h photoperiod. Maximum bud development and elongation was achieved on cytokinin-free medium containing 4% (wt/vol) sucrose and 0.05% (wt/vol) activated charcoal. Regenerated shoots were excised and induced to root on media with auxin. Rooting percentages up to 100% were obtained in the presence of 2.5 M naphthaleneacetic acid and 4% (wt/vol) sucrose. The inclusion of activated charcoal in the root induction medium drastically reduced the number of rooted shoots. Following conventional procedures, plantlets were ultimately established in soil.
4293647|We have developed a highly efficient two-stage protocol for induction of multiple shoots from single node in vitro shoot tip explants of Decalepis hamiltonii. It was found that phenylacetic acid (PAA) had a synergistic effect on shoot multiplication when treated with
4293310|A protocol is described for rapid multiplication of Piper barberi Gamble (Piperaceae) through shoot tip and nodal explant cultures. Nodal explants with a single axillary meristem showed three times better response with respect to shoot proliferation when compared to shoot tip explants. The best shoot proliferation response of nodal explants was observed with a cytokinin combination of
4293506|The present state of genetic control of in vitro responses of wheat and of the prospects of its improvement and practical use are presented. The genetic factors affecting different stages of callus induction and of organogenesis in immature embryos are discussed. The dominant genotypic role in the in vitro processes and the cytoplasmic influence on the latter are shown. Genotype x environment and nucleus x cytoplasm interactions were observed. Some unsolved problems needing further investigations of cereals at the tissue culture level are pointed out.
24596341|To improve micropropagation and acclimatization of turmeric (Curcuma longa L.), we evaluated the effects of media volume, plant density, macronutrient ion concentrations, cationic ratios [NH]/[K], and sucrose concentration. Multiplication was highest with low bud density. Yield of new plants was highest with high bud density, the most sucrose, the highest concentration of macronutrients, and the greatest volume of medium. However, maximum plant size required low-density, reduced sucrose and elimination of NH. The largest plants grew quickest during greenhouse acclimatization when macronutrients were lowered to 20 mM. In a follow-up experiment, media volume was set at 40 mL with 5% sucrose with NH reduced to 5 mM, and the effects of varying P, Ca, Mg, KNO, and bud densities were assessed. The largest plants were produced at low density. More importantly, at high density the optimal concentrations of P, Ca, Mg, and KNO predicted plant size that was nearly equal to the maximum value from low-density cultures in the prior experiment. Growth of plants during greenhouse acclimatization was increased by modifications of in vitro medium with plants cultured with 3.32 mM P, 4.5 mM Mg, and 37 mM KNO predicted to grow most rapidly. The effect of starter fertilizer in the greenhouse mix was much less than the effects of P, Mg, and KNO in vitro. These results showed (1) optimal media formulae for different stages of micropropagation and (2) process-related factors such as plant density and media volume affected the optimal nutrient concentrations.
25623017|Wetland species mat rush (Juncus effusus L.) is an important economic plant, but no information is available regarding plant regeneration, callus induction, and its proliferation from in vitro seed grown plantlets. The present study investigates the effects of growth regulator combinations and medium innovation on tissue culture system of five mat rush varieties. Addition of N6- benzyladenine (BA) and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium showed significantly positive effect on callus proliferation, plant regeneration, and its multiplication compared to the medium devoid of BA. The highest callus induction frequency (80.95%, 90.48%, 75.40%, 70.83%, and 83.33%) was observed in MS medium containing 0.5 mg L (2.2 M) BA in Yinlin-1, Nonglin-4, Gangshan, Taicao, and Taiwan green, respectively. Various growth regulator combinations with successive subculture (medium replacement) were found essential to develop organogenic calluses and to regenerate shoots. The combination of 0.1 mg L BA (0.4 M) and 2 mg L 2,4-D (9.0 M) in MS medium was found best for callus proliferation for all the varieties under trial. The plant regeneration required two steps involving successive medium replacements as well as optimal hormonal balances. Successful plant regeneration (over 70%) was observed only by transferring the organogenic callus from regeneration medium I [MS medium containing 0.5 mg L BA (2. M) and 1.0 mg L kinetin (KT; 4.6 M)] to the regeneration medium II [MS medium containing 0.5 mg L BA (2.2 M), 1.0 mg L KT (4.6 M) and 3.0 mg L indoleacetic acid (IAA; 17.1 M)]. Our results confirmed the importance of the ratio of auxin (IAA) to cytokinin (BA and KT) in the manipulation of shoot regeneration in J. effusus L. The maximum plant survival frequency and multiplication rates (90.97% and 5.40 and 94.23% and 8.25) were recorded in the presence of 0.5 mg L BA (2.2 M) in the 1/2 MS multiplication medium for the varieties of Nonglin-4 and Taicao, respectively. About 100% survival rate was also observed for all the varieties in soil conditions. The efficient plant regeneration system developed here will be helpful for rapid micropropagation and further genetic improvement in J. effusus L.
4293632| This paper investigates maintenance and proliferation of somatic embryogenesis systems for Ulmus minor and U. glabra. Proliferation occurred with subculture of embryogenic calluses. The calluses were mainly formed by friable nodules composed of meristematic cells organized into proembryogenic cell masses (PEMs) and thin-walled vacuolated parenchymatic cells. Cotyledonary embryos, with procambial strands and differentiation of their vascular tissues as well as visible root meristems, were identifiable after 18 d of culture on a proliferation medium with 0.44 M benzyladenine (BA). The shoot meristem was only occasionally well developed. Somatic embryo multiplication from elm embryogenic calluses is a clearly asynchronic system, and PEMs as well as embryos at all stages of development are observed simultaneously at the end of subculture period. Factors affecting the proliferation of elm embryogenic callus, such as culture medium, carbon source and genotype, were studied. Basal medium (MS) or medium supplemented with 0.44 M BA produced the highest number of somatic embryos. Somatic embryo production was higher with sucrose or glucose than with maltose, and significant differences were also found among the four embryogenic lines tested. The use of liquid medium with filter paper support is an essential step for the survival of isolated somatic embryos during the germination stage. The addition of 0.22 M BA to liquid MS medium was the best treatment for germination and plantlet conversion of elm somatic embryos. 
20064904|Nutrient limitation and inhibitor accumulation have been shown to impede the development of somatic embryos of carrots in batch cultures. To improve the development of embryos, semicontinuous cultures with daily medium replenishment were performed. An image analysis system capable of identifying normal and abnormal embryos was used to facilitate the kinetic study. At a high daily medium replenishment rate of 20%, the biomass production was also higher, but not the embryo concentration. Total embryo and torpedo embryo concentrations were both higher at a 10% medium replenishment rate than at 5% and 20%. The profiles of embryo concentrations under three medium replenishment rates appeared similar until a late stage of cultivation; however, statistical analysis of the morphological features distribution revealed that significant differences were discernible earlier. For the formation of mature embryos, the optimal daily medium replenishment is judged to be in the range of 10-20%. In this study, more than 20 000 embryos were classified and counted. The information on population kinetics and statistical comparison were made possible by the availability of our image analysis system.
23321157|Lepidium sativum L., commonly known as 'garden cress', possesses variable proportions of benzylcyanide and benzylisothiocynate which contribute towards its activity against Bacillus subtilis and Micrococcus pyogenes. The plant is also used as an antifertility and antiovulatory drug. Various juvenile (cotyledonary leaves, hypocotyl, radicle) as well as mature explants (leaf, shoot apex, nodal segments) callused on Murashige and Skoog's medium (MS) supplemented with naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) + N6-benzyladenine (BA) + casein hydrolyzate (CH). Regeneration from hypocotyl callus and nodal segments occurred after NAA/BA was replaced with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA)/kinetin (Kn). Lepidine was monitored at regular intervals. Significant amounts of lepidine was detected in in vitro-regenerated plants obtained from juvenile and mature explants. The yield, however, was variable, depending upon the source and type of explant used. High lepidine was detected in 8-wk-old hypocotyl callus. Amongst regenerants, maximum lepidine was obtained from the plantlets at the vegetative stage.
4293276|Lignosulfonates (LIGNs) are low-cost by-products from the paper industry and are already commercialized as fertilizers. Because earlier laboratory and glasshouse assays had shown a beneficial effect of LIGNs on rooting and general plant vigor, their incorporation in several plant tissue culture types was examined here. The present assays indicated that well-chosen concentrations of LIGNs, whether they were chelated with Ca or Fe, stimulated growth of a normal and an habituated sugarbeet callus, improved multiplication rate and vigor of a shoot-proliferating poplar cluster, and increased the rooting percentage of holly, ginseng, and poplar shoots. Complementing the exogenous rooting auxin with LIGNs enhanced the increases of endogenous levels of indoleacetic acid and its aspartate conjugate in the basal parts of poplar shoots at the rooting inductive phase. Although LIGNs exerted some effects in the absence of the growth regulators, they could not replace them. Their possible mode of action is discussed.
41318708|A method of plant regeneration from hypocotyl segments of Platanus acerifolia Willd. has been developed. Hypocotyl slices were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with a range of combinations of cytokinins [6-benzyladenine (BA) or kinetin] and auxins [indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), indole-S-acetic acid, a-naphthaleneacetic acid or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid] for adventitious shoot induction. The highest regeneration frequency was obtained with MS medium containing 2.0mg1 (8.88M) BA and 0.5mg1 (2.46 M) IBA. Adventitious buds and shoots were differentiated from hypocotyl-derived callus or directly from the wounded sites within 4-8 wk. The regenerated shoots were elongated and proliferated efficiently on multiplication medium. Complete plantlets were transplanted to the soil and grew normally in the greenhouse after root formation on rooting medium for 4 6wk.
4293910| This study reports a protocol for successful micropropagation of Decalepis arayalpathra (Joseph and Chandras) Venter. (Janakia arayalpathra Joseph and Chandrasekhran; Periplocaceae), a critically endangered and endemic ethnomedicinal plant in the southern forests of the Western Ghats which is overexploited for its tuberous medicinal roots by the local Kani tribes. Natural regeneration is rare and conventional propagation is difficult. Conservation of the species through micropropagation was attempted. The nodal explants of greenhouse-raised plants, were more desirable than cotyledonary nodal explants of aseptic seedlings. The basal nodes (73%) of 12-16-wk-old greenhouse-grown plants cultured in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 12.96 M 6-benzyladenine (BA), 2.48 M 2-isopentenyladenine (2-ip) and 2.68 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) formed 16-17 cm long unbranched robust solitary shoots in 8 wk. Cotyledonary nodal explants cultured in the same medium showed multiple shoot formation and axillary branching. But the shoots were thin, fragile and not suitable for mass propagation. Single nodes of a solitary shoot subcultured on MS medium containing 2.22 M BA and 0.24 M 2-ip together produced 9.8  0.3 nodes from 18.0  0.6 cm long shoots within 5-6 wk. The basal nodes of the shoots so formed were repeatedly subcultured to increase the stock of propagules while the 2.5-3.0 cm terminal cuttings were used for rooting. The best root induction (68%) and survival (86%) was achieved on half-strength MS medium supplemented with 1.07 M NAA. Field-established plants showed uniform growth and phenotypic similarity to parental stock. 
4293797|Methyl jasmonate (MeJA) interacted significantly with both indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) to influence cell growth of cultured Onosma paniculatum cells. Cell growth decreased with increasing concentrations of MeJA from
4293399|The effects were studied of light intensity, culture method and cytokinins on plant formation from callus-derived rhizomes of Cymbidium ensifolium var. misericors. The results demonstrated that one piece of rhizome produced seven shoot buds in 45 d when cultured in 1/2 MS basal liquid medium supplemented with
40981345|A simple procedure has been described for simultaneous determination and improved yield of three pentacyclic triterpenoidsbetulinic, oleanolic, and ursolic acidsfrom callus cultures of Lantana cmara. Cell biomass was obtained from leaf disk expiants cultured on Murashige and Skoog (Physiol Plant 15:473-497, 1962) medium supplemented with 5 M 6-benzylaminopurine, 1 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, and 1 M -naphthaleneacetic acid. Optimum separation of the three compounds was achieved by reverse-phase high-pressure liquid chromatography on a C column with 80:20 (v/v) acetonitrile/water as mobile phase. With this route, a yield of 3.1% betulinic acid, 1.88% oleanolic acid, and 4.12% ursolic acid per gram dry weight was obtained from cultures. Leaves from the parent plant, used as control, showed total absence of betulinic acid, and the quantities of oleanolic and ursolic acids present in them were only marginally higher than that found in in vitro-raised cultures. Presence of the three compounds was further confirmed by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry.
20540993|Thidiazuron induces a variety of effects in foliar explants of K. pinnata cultured in vitro. Of these, the induction of an organized hypertrophic growth at the vein ending on the proximal side of leaf disks is a significant morphogenetic effect. This polarized hypertrophy is considered an exclusive auxin-mediated response, as the effect is completely reversed by auxin efflux inhibitor 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid. With the magnitude of hypertrophic growth from individual disks taken as a manifestation of putative auxin levels, the occurrence of a gross, decreasing bioactive auxin gradient from median-basal to peripheral locations across the leaf plane has been observed.
4293846|A procedure for protoplast isolation and plant regeneration of St. John's wort has been developed to utilize cell-to-cell variability for optimum production of valuable medicinal compounds. Calluses, induced from hypocotyl segments of St. John's wort seedlings, were used for protoplast isolation, induction of sustained cell division, and ultimately, plant regeneration. Callus-isolated protoplasts at a density of
4293792|Considerable progress has been accomplished in the cellular and molecular biology of Brassica species in the past few years. Plant regeneration has been increasingly optimized via organogenesis and somatic embryogenesis using various explants; with tissue culture improvements focusing on factors such as age of the explant, genotype, and media additives. The production of haploids and doubled haploids using microspores has accelerated the production of homozygous lines in the Brassica species. Somatic cell fusion has facilitated the development of interspecific and intergeneric hybrids in the sexually incompatible species of Brassica. Crop improvement using somaclonal variation has also been achieved. The use of molecular markers in marker-assisted selection and breeding, transformation technology for the introduction of desirable traits, and a comparative analysis of these as well as their future prospects are important parts of the current research that is reviewed.
29736219|Murashige and Skoog's (MS) basal medium with benzylaminopurine (BA), kinetin (KN), zeatin (Z), and thidiazuron (TDZ) were tested for induction of multiple shoots from mature-tree-derived axillary meristems of Pongamia pinnata. Sprouting of buds was 64% on medium devoid of plant growth regulators (PGR). Incorporation of BA, KN, or Z was ineffective in enhancing sprouting frequency or induction of multiple shoots. Sprouting was completely suppressed in the presence of TDZ. Caulogenic buds appeared in nodal meristems of these explants after withdrawal of TDZ. The number of shoot buds was more on explants precultured in higher concentrations. At higher concentrations of this PGR, a swelling developed at the axil. Multiple shoot primordia appeared and differentiated from this swelling after culturing these explants on MS medium for six passages of 2 wk each. Shoots were harvested and cultured on 0.45 M TDZ for further proliferation. Primary explants after harvesting of shoots were identified as 'stump'. Reculturing of stumps on 0.45 M TDZ produced more shoots. This step was followed for six cycles to obtain additional shoots in each cycle. Shoots maintained on 0.45 M TDZ elongated and rooted (70%) on growth regulator-free medium. Rooted shoots (65%) survived transfer to a sand/soil mixture. This report describes the protocol for micropropagation of P. pinnata using mature-tree-derived nodal meristems. Recycling of mature stock to produce a stream of useable shoots for subculturing and eventual stabilization is of great value and can possibly be generalized as an isolation protocol especially for woody species. Repeated proliferation of caulogenic buds from the same origin may also find application in rescue of endangered germplasm.
4293094|The influence of culture flask closures, i.e., cotton plugs and rubber and aluminum-foil caps, on headspace gas composition and growth of leaf petiole callus-derived GF 677 cell suspensions was comparatively tested. Oxygen concentration always remained comparable to that of the lab atmosphere and CO
4293108| Ginkgo biloba L. is an important landscape tree, is resistant to insect, fungi and other pests, and produces a number of chemicals that have pharmaceutical properties (termed ginkgolides). Studies were initiated to establish an in vitro culture protocol for Ginkgo. Explants (intact embryos, embryos with cotyledons removed, and cotyledon tissue) were removed from disinfested seeds and cultured on Murashige and Skoog minimal organics medium with various combinations of either 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and either kinetin or benzyladenine (BA). Cultures were incubated in the light and morphological development was recorded. Both embryo and cotyledon explants produced callus (cotyledon tissue produced the most callus). Ginkgolides A and B were detected in callus tissue extracts. Intact embryo cultures initiated on media with 2,4-D plus NAA for 5 wk produced shoots and roots when transferred to media with 4.5 M 2,4-D alone for an additional 5 wk. Plants were transferred from the 2,4-D media to pots and maintained in the greenhouse. 
4293935| In researching the application of genetic transformation to lily breeding, callus formation from cultured explants and plant regeneration from induced calluses were examined in 33 Lilium genotypes, 21 species, three Asiatic hybrids, two LA hybrids, two Longiflorum hybrids, three Oriental hybrids, and two Trumpet hybrids. Seed, bulb scale, leaf, or filament explants were placed on a medium containing 4.1 M 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid (picloram; PIC) and cultured in the dark. After 2 mo., callus formation was observed in 30 genotypes, and a formation frequency of more than 50% was obtained in 24 genotypes. Bulb scale and filament explants showed great ability to form calluses, whereas seeds had poor ability. Most of the induced calluses were yellow and had a nodular appearance. When subcultured onto the same fresh medium, twofold or more increases in callus mass were obtained in 1 mo. for 15 genotypes. Callus lines showing sustained growth 1 yr after the initiation of subculture were examined for their ability to produce shoots on a medium without plant growth regulators (PGRs) and a medium containing 22 M 6-benzyladenine (BA). Shoot regeneration was observed in all genotypes examined, and a regeneration frequency of over 80% was obtained in 20 genotypes. Initial explants used for callus induction and callus type (nodular or friable) had no effect on shoot regeneration. Most of the regenerated shoots developed into complete plantlets following their transfer to a PGR-free medium. 
4293365|This review focuses on how microspore-derived (MD) embryos and cell suspension cultures of oilseed rape have been used to advance our understanding of the biochemistry and molecular biology of lipid biosynthesis in plants. Both types of cultures are easily maintained and circumvent the difficulties associated with using developing seeds for investigations of lipid biosynthesis. Developing MD embryos exhibit a similar storage lipid accumulation profile and fatty acid composition to developing seed. The use of dihaploids derived from plantlets of MD embryos have accelerated breeding programs and have proven useful in the detection of recessive mutations. MD embryos and MD cell suspension cultures have been particularly useful in investigating the properties of key enzymes involved in triacylglycerol (TG) bioassembly. MD cell suspension cultures, however, offer the advantage of being able to study lipid metabolism in the absence of cellular differentiation. TG accumulation can be induced in MD cell suspension cultures by increasing the sucrose concentration of the growth medium thereby providing a useful system to investigate gene expression and the proteomics of lipid biosynthesis.
4293157| A sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua) nodule culture system was developed and integrated with genetic transformation by microprojectile bombardment. Nodule cultures were established from seedling hypocotyls and proliferated in liquid medium containing 0.1 mg (0.45 M) thidiazuron (TDZ) per l and 0.01 mg (0.045 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) per l. Shoots differentiated from the nodules in liquid media containing (per l) 1 mg (4.4 M) benzyladenine (BA), 0.5 mg (2.2 M) BA, and 0.01 mg (0.054 M) naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), or 0.5 mg BA, 0.01 mg NAA, and 0.05 mg (0.23 M) TDZ under the light. Differentiating shoots required 4 wk of dark treatment for further development on semisolid medium containing 1 mg BA per l. Elongated shoots were harvested and the basal ends were soaked in a solution containing 10 mg (49.2 M) indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) per l before being planted in potting mix for ex vitro rooting. Roots formed and leaves expanded in 2 wk. Sweetgum nodules were stably transformed by microprojectile bombardment with a 7.4-kb plasmid, pTRA 140, harboring CaMV 35S-HPH and CaMV 35S-GUS. Evidence that nodules growing in the presence of hygromycin B were stably transformed was provided by polymerase chain reaction analysis and -glucuronidase activity. Sweetgum shoots differentiated in liquid medium in the presence of hygromycin B. Shoots transferred to solid medium lacking hygromycin B elongated and displayed -glucuronidase activity in their expanding leaves and stems. Southern analysis confirmed the presence of the GUS gene in nodules and shoots. Transgenic shoots initiated roots and showed leaf expansion 2 wk after being planted in potting mix. 
20065032|A protocol has been developed for plantlet regeneration from seed callus of Bixa orellana L. Seeds demonstrated a high percentage of callus induction (63.8  7.3%) and a high yield (356.3  14.7 mg per seed) of white friable callus on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 5.0 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 2.5 M N-benzyladenine (BA) within 6 wk of culture in the dark. Callus induction frequency was greater under 24 h dark as compared to 16 h light/8 h dark photoperiod or 24 h light photoperiod. Increased myo-inositol (MI;
4293527|Random amplified polymorphic DNA analysis was used to determine the occurrence and extent of variation in rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants regenerated from anther culture. Androclonal variation in morphologically uniform progenies was detected using 40 10-mer oligonucleotide arbitrary primers. Among 27 plants from nine anther culture-derived lines, variation was detected in three plants from two lines by two primers, namely UBC 160 and UBC 209. Primer UBC 160 amplified a polymorphic band on one of the three progenies from DH-34, while UBC 209 detected polymorphisms on two out of three progenies from line DH-58. Apart from these, the amplification products were monomorphic across all the regenerants from anther culture-derived plants. Out of 40 tested primers, no difference in the banding pattern was observed in three seed-derived plants. The significance of possible androclonal variation at the DNA level in rice doubled haploid breeding and genetic mapping is discussed.
20461541|An efficient in vitro shoot propagation method for Vaccinium cylindraceum Smith by axillary bud proliferation was developed in this study. Cultures of V. cylindraceum were established on a Zimmerman and Broome medium supplemented with increasing concentrations of N-[2-isopentyl] adenine (2-iP), using nodal and shoot-tip explants from three different islands. Best shoot production was obtained when nodal segments were cultured in the medium supplemented with 12.3 and 24.6 M 2-iP. Shoots were rooted in vitro in the same media without 2-iP and cultured ex vitro in Jiffy 7 pellets. About 99% of the rooted plants survived.
20064940|Comparative studies of carnation micropropagation under four different ventilation rates showed that using gas-permeable filters, with gelled or liquid media and modifying the volume of culture medium, it was possible to establish a suitable hydric state to obtain good proliferation rates with gelled and liquid medium, as well as optimal acclimatization of micro-cuttings. The following parameters were measured: ventilation rate, gas exchange coefficients, relative water loss, increase of agar concentration, micropropagation rates, percentage of hyperhydricity, and acclimatization rates. Our results confirm that it is possible to avoid hyperhydric plants cultured in liquid medium with the use of ventilated culture vessels through the control of the water relations during the multiplication phase and, at the same time, keeping the micropropagation rate.
20064916|The Antirrhinum majus Tam3 element was introduced into Arabidopsis thaliana protoplasts and plants in order to assess the influence of an in vitro culture phase such as protoplasts and callus culture on the mobility of this transposable element in this plant species. The constructs used contained the Tam3 element inserted in between the CaMV 35S promoter and the gus- or hpt-coding region, allowing a direct selection of excision candidates. From the different approaches used, only a long-term callus culture allowed us to detect Tam3 activity. No Tam3 activity could be detected in protoplasts or protoplast-derived microcolonies. Our data are compared with those previously reported for Tam3 in tobacco and petunia.
20064809|The effects of sucrose concentration, addition of ammonium nitrate, and exposure to N-benzyl-adenine (BA) on multiplication potential with shoots derived from shoot cultures of 17- to 20-yr-old Douglas fir trees [Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirb.) Franco] were compared. Each of these conditions, when compared independently, affected recurrent shoot multiplication and influenced shoot development, as measured by the abundance of shoot apices. Sucrose concentration was influential, the use of
4293898|Leaf-tip necrosis of micropropagated statice plantlets is a serious problem in commercial laboratories in Taiwan. Endophytic bacteria were detected in plantlets obtained from commercial laboratories with a leaf-tip necrosis problem. Endophytic bacteria were detected in flower stalks collected from four different statice farms at frequencies ranging from 61 to 100%. All plantlets regenerated from flower-stalk explants that tested free of endophytic bacteria did not develop leaf-tip necrosis. The most frequently detected endophytic bacteria were Pasteurella multocida, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, and Alcaligenes sp. Most endophytic bacteria in statice plantlets were eliminated by the subculture of plantlets on medium with augmentin, cefotaxime, or augmentin plus cefotaxime. Those plantlets freed from endophytic bacteria by subculture on antibiotic-amended medium did not develop leaf-tip necrosis. Our results show that leaf-tip necrosis of micropropagated statice plantlets is associated with endophytic bacteria, and that the disease can be controlled by using explants pre-tested to be free from endophytic bacteria or by the subculture of affected plantlets on antibiotic-amended medium.
20065006|Leaves of Phlox paniculata L. were bombarded with BA-coated gold microprojectiles with the Biolistic PDS/1000-He gene gun. Increasing the concentration of BA from 0.01 to 0.1 mg/l increased the mean number of adventitious shoots from 7 to 16 shoots per leaf. Bombardment of cotyledons of Pinus pinea L. (Italian stone pine) with BA-coated gold particles significantly reduced the frequency of shoot organogenesis by about 40%. However, induced shoot regenerants from bombarded explants of both P. paniculata and P. pinea were longer (&gt1 cm) than those derived from control explants after 3 and 5 wk following bombardment, respectively.
40981344|A novel, efficient, and simple protocol was developed on in vitro mass propagation and acclimatization of Gerbera jamesonii Bolus cv. Sciella, an ornamental plant with attractive flowers. Shoot tip was used as the primary expiant for in vitro establishment in which Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with a low level of NAA (0.5 mgl) and BAP (1.5 mgl) promoted earliest axillary bud initiation within 5 d in 91.6% of the inoculants. Five axillary buds were initiated from a single expiant within 13d after inoculation. A very high rate of shoot multiplication (14 shoots per inoculated axillary bud) and proliferation was achieved when MS medium was fortified with a relatively higher level of BAP (2 mgl) and 60 mgl ADS within 27 d of multiple shoot culture. A maximum number of well-developed roots per plant was observed in MS medium with 0.5 mgl IAA in the next 26 d. In the easy low-cost acclimatization process of 20 d, a combination of sand, soil, cow urine, and tea leaves extract (1:1:1:1; v/v) ensured 95% survival rate. Sixty-one well-acclimatized plants were obtained from a single shoot tip within 86 d. The sustained multiple shoot culture for 15 mo paved the way toward the conservation of genetic resources as well as beneficial economics. The clonal fidelity study of micropropagated and sustained cultured clones using ISSR primers ensured the continuous supply of quality propagules retaining genetic uniformity. The in vitro-generated plants performed better over conventionally propagated plants in the field condition.
4293403|Triploid watermelon (Citrullus lanatus [Thunb.] Matsum. & Nakai) Arka Manik cultures exhibited a general pale color and yellowing of lower leaves by 3-4 wk following subculturing to fresh medium. Protecting the medium from light by covering the surface with sterile aluminum foil significantly improved leaf color and chlorophyll content by 50-60%. Raising the concentration of
4293497|Somatic embryos of grapevine (Vitis vinifera L.) 'Chardonnay' were produced from liquid suspension cultures. Mature somatic embryos were blot dried briefly in the laminar flow hood and germinated directly in Magenta GA-7 Vessels[TRADE MARK SIGN] containing one of the following potting media: (1) sand, (2) commercial potting mixture (CPM), or (3) CPM overlaid with sand. Each vessel containing 20 ml of distilled water and the potting medium was sterilized by autoclaving for 30 min and cooled overnight before inoculating the somatic embryos. Five somatic embryos were placed in each vessel under aseptic conditions. The vessels were closed and incubated at
4293817|Meristematic clusters were induced from daylily scape explants (pedicel-scape junction) in the presence of the growth retardant Paclobutrazol on semisolid agar medium. Liquid shake culture was used to proliferate meristematic clusters. Highly efficient regeneration of adventitious shoots occurred on clusters after subculture on a 0.8% agar strength semisolid medium with the addition of activated charcoal. Paclobutrazol and sucrose levels in the media were found to significantly affect starch accumulation, growth value, and dry weight percentage of liquid-cultured meristematic clusters. The use of liquid shake cultures for mass proliferation of meristematic clusters followed by regeneration of adventitious shoots on semisolid agar culture could be an efficient system for large-scale micropropagation of daylily.
20064923|The rate of metabolism and biosynthetic processes make in vitro cultures very sensitive to environmental changes, and therefore subject to physiological and morphological alterations leading to senescence in the short term. The effects of three different calibrated atmospheric compositions were studied during in vitro culture of Prunus avium shoots. At 0.034% CO-21% O (vol/vol), which stimulate the natural atmosphere, the highest growth rate and chlorophyll content were recorded. When grown at 0.09% CO-8% O (vol/vol), a favorable condition for photosynthesis and growth, cultures showed a higher percentage of dry matter and elevated ethylene production, but total chlorophyll was lower. These shoots were also highly lignified and fibrous with red pigmentation along the leaves and stems. At 0% CO-21% O (vol/vol), in contrast, growth and ethylene formation were inhibited; chlorophyll content was lowest in comparison with the other two environmental conditions, but regreening of tissues was observed after the first half of the culture period. Senescence symptoms, as indicated by decreased chlorophyll, appeared after about 18 d of culture for tissues grown in CO-containing atmospheres. These experiments provided evidence that in CO-enriched cultures biomass production steadily increased even when chlorophyll decreased. A possible role of CO in promoting tissue-senescence through activation of photooxidative events and ethylene synthesis is discussed.
41318705|Seventeen breeding lines of soybean, Glycine max (L.) Merrill, and cv. Jack, from relative maturity groups 0.3-7.5 were assessed for their ability to undergo somatic embryogenesis. The goal of this study was to determine which lines had high embryognie capacity. We also sought to understand the relationship between relative maturity and embryogenesis. Embryos from immature cotyledons were initiated on solid MS medium with varying levels of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Qualitative and quantitative measures of initiation, proliferation, differentiation, and maturation were recorded. The breeding lines differed significantly with respect to percent induction, number of embryos induced, and quality of induced embryos. After 1 mo. of proliferation, two early maturing lines, the control, Jack, and NK-5, had the best overall performance. High percent response of proliferating embryos was positively associated with lower maturity groups. Relatively high concentrations of 2,4-D (compared with that used in proliferating medium, e. g., 226 M; 50 mgI1) in the initiating medium reduced numbers of embryo clusters per cotyledon initiated and percent initiation, and the concentration of 2,4-D affected the proliferation of somatic embryos in a breeding line-dependent manner. The breeding lines differed significantly in the time to produce mature somatic embryos. There was a positive correlation between immature embryo quality and number of differentiated somatic embryos produced.
4292974| A protocol for clonal propagation of eastern white cedar (Thuja occidentalis L.) was enhanced by optimizing the shoot multiplication stage using unbranched in vitro-produced shoots. This was achieved by careful selection of different medium components. An optimum range of 10 to 14 axillary shoots was obtained when shoots were cultured on half-strength Quiorin and LePoivre medium containing 10 M filter-sterilized zeatin for 3 wk. Transfer of the treated shoots to cytokinin-free medium containing 0.05% activated charcoal improved both the number and quality of the axillary shoots produced. Maximum axillary bud induction was also accomplished when shoots were pulsed in 1 mM liquid, filter-sterilized zeatin for 3 h, and then transferred to half-strength Quiorin and LePoivre, charcoal-containing medium. Inclusion of 4% sucrose improved the number of axillary shoots obtained. Half strength of the major salts produced an optimum response. Shoots obtained from different cultures (1 to 5 yr old) responded similarly to the applied cytokinin; however, newly induced shoots (4 mo. old) gave a significantly higher response. 
4293254|Photoautotrophic (sugar-free) micropropagation has been examined for many different plant species. One of the advantages of photoautotrophic micropropagation is the low risk of contamination, which facilitates the use of large culture vessels, and thus contributes to the reduction in production cost. In this article, pathogenic and nonpathogenic contaminations are discussed, and guidelines for development of large-scale, pathogen-free, photoautotrophic micropropagation systems are introduced. A preliminary experiment was conducted for producing pathogen-free plantlets by large-scale photoautotrophic micropropagation. Addition of AgNO
20065019|Recombinant DNA technology has great potential to enhance and extend the advantages of conventional plant breeding, and increase the production and productivity of crops to meet the increasing demand for food and food products in the future. Judicious application of this technology provides opportunities for alleviating some of the major constraints to crop productivity under subsistence farming conditions in the developing countries. Considerable progress has been made in developing strategies for the production and deployment of transgenic crops. However, biosafety concerns have been raised regarding the deployment and release of genetically engineered plants. This debate has divided the farming and consumer communities over acceptability of genetically modified foods. There is a need for a through investigation regarding the fate of transgenic plants in the environment, and their interaction with wild relatives and non-target organisms. The production and release of transgenic plants should be based on experience and sound scientific reasoning. The regulatory requirements for deployment of transgenic crops should be streamlined and harmonized, in order to achieve sustainable food production, poverty reduction, and environmental protection in resource-poor countries in the semi-arid tropics.
41496434|A protocol is described that supports the production of transgenic sugarcane plants ready for transfer to soil within 3 mo from culture initiation. Biolistic gene transfer into cross-sections of immature leaf whorl expiants followed by direct somatic embryogenesis resulted in the stable genetic transformation of the commercially important sugarcane cultivar CP 88-1762. Accelerating the production of transgenic sugarcane plants not only saves time and effort but will likely also minimize somaclonal variation. Southern blot analysis revealed simple transgene integration patterns ranging from one to five hybridization products. NPTII-ELISA confirmed that most of the transgenic plants expressed the transgene stably in vegetative progeny. Using a minimal, linear expression cassette (MC) without vector backbone sequences for the biolistic gene transfer and reducing the amount of MC to 10 ng per shot may have led to simple transgene integration and stable transgene expression. Therefore, this protocol has great potential for the generation of commercial transgenic sugarcane events.
41432837|Sodium thioglycollate is a reducing agent used in microbiological growth media to enhance the growth of anerobic, microaerophilic, and facultative organisms, and in eukaryotic tissue extraction buffers to inhibit damaging oxidative reactions. Sodium thioglycollate was added to a semi-solid pollen germination medium to evaluate its effects on in vitro pollen germination and pollen tube elongation, based on the assumption that conditions within stylar tissues are less aerobic than in ambient conditions. We observed significant increases in the percent germination and pollen tube elongation of both crop and weedy mustard family species, on a medium containing 2.2 mM sodium thioglycollate.This suggests that sodium thioglycollate may be a useful amendment to semi-solid media and to solutions that are used to study pollen vigor, physiology, or gene expression, and to bioassay sensitivities of different species or genotypes to diverse physical and chemical factors.
20064994|A fungal elicitor extracted from Aspergillus oryzae (Ahlb.) Cobn mycelia promoted the production of shikonin derivatives in Onosma paniculatum Bur et Franch cell suspension cultures. Elicitor treatment also increased
4293131|The patterns of hyoscyamine and proline accumulation were studied in Agrobacterium-tmnsformed 'hairy root' cultures of Hyoscyamus muticus to determine if proline is a metabolic precursor of hyoscyamine. Root cultures were stressed osmotically with mannitol and the subsequent growth, hyoscyamine levels, and proline levels were measured after each transfer to fresh experimental medium for a total of four transfers. H. muticus 'hairy roots' were also treated with
20461621|An efficient protocol for in vitro propagation of the valuable medicinal plant, Wasabia japonica (Miq.) Matsumura is described through shoot tip proliferation and direct regeneration. Multiple shoots were induced from shoot tips cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) semi-solid medium containing various concentrations (0.5-50 M) of N-benzyladenine (BA), thidiazuron, kinetin, and zeatin. A comparison was made on shoot multiplication between semi-solid and liquid culture media. Well-developed shoots were obtained using full-strength MS semi-solid medium containing 5.0 M BA. However, the greatest shoot proliferation was achieved on either full- or half-strength MS liquid media supplemented with 5.0 M BA for 4 wk (15.3  0.9 and 15.0  0.7 shoots per explant, respectively), and on half-strength MS liquid medium for 6 wk (25.8  1.3 shoots per explant) in culture. In contrast, the maximum number of shoots per explant on full-strength MS semi-solid medium was achieved with either 5.0 M BA (10.4  0.6 shoots per explant) or 10.0 M kinetin (10.9  0.8 shoots per explant). Fresh weight of explants and length of shoots derived from full-strength MS liquid medium (1055  77 mg and 34.2  1.0 mm, respectively) were significantly higher than those derived from full-strength MS semi-solid medium (437.6  17.3 mg and 15.4  0.7 mm, respectively). Quarter-strength MS liquid medium had no significant difference in shoot proliferation when compared to quarter-strength MS semi-solid medium. Elongated shoots were separated and rooted on half-strength MS semi-solid media fortified with 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), or indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) ranging from 0.1 to 10.0 M. Root formation was greatest with IBA when compared with IAA and NAA. One hundred percent of shoots were rooted on half-strength MS medium with 5.0 M IBA, while vigorous roots were obtained with 10.0 M IBA. Micropropagated plantlets were successfully established in soil with 95% survival rate after hardening.
4292920| Microscope cultures of Brassica napus cv. Topas undergo high frequency embryogenesis in vitro; however, the majority of microspore-derived embryos do not develop directly into plants but usually undergo abnormal development including the formation of secondary embryos on the hypocotyls. The present studies show that older embryos or embryos cultured at higher temperature (25 C) were more likely to undergo secondary embryogenesis whereas embryos cultured at 20 C or pretreated at 5 to 10 C for 28 days developed more readily into normal plants. Compared with embryos cultured at 25 C, those cultured at 20 C gave a threefold increase in normal plant production. Pretreatments at cooler temperatures (5 to 10 C) resulted in an additional two-to threefold increase in the recovery of normal plants. Higher osmoticum during pretreatment improved embryo survival at low temperatures but generally inhibited normal plant development. Abscisic acid was ineffective or deleterious. 
4293481| In a short period of time, a large number of adventitious shoots were regenerated from longitudinal sections of in vitro-germinated seedlings of the endangered Mexican cactus, Turbinicarpus laui. The induction medium consisted of Murashige and Skoog salts, supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) in a wide range of combinations. The most effective concentrations of growth regulators for shoots initiation were 8.8-13.32 M BA with 0-2.68 M NAA. After 3-4 mo., individualized shoots were rooted on half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium and then transferred to soil to acclimatize under greenhouse conditions. In vitro strategies play a key role in the conservation and propagation of this commercially important endangered species of cactus. 
4292917| The Holistic technique transforms cells by bombardment with DNA-coated microprojectiles. It has been used to transform plants, microbes, and organelles. We adapted a standard Biolistic PDS-1000 device for use with animals and have successfully transformed tissues in live mice. The firefly luciferase gene was introduced into mouse skin and ear tissue. One day after transformation 344  74 and 1648  254 pg of luciferase were detected in skin and ear samples, respectively. Expression of the gene product was transient but detectable up to 7 days after bombardment. A further modification of the device allowed transient transformation of liver tissue in vivo. Liver contained 293  122 pg of luciferase 1 day postransformation. Expression of the gene in liver tissue was unchanged at Day 3 but declined to low levels by Day 5. This new device allowed a fourfold increase in gene expression in ear tissue extending a minimum of 14 days. This technology is applicable to a broad range of tissues and organs in situ and makes it possible to test numerous reporters and the tissue specificity of promoters. It may also be useful in protocols for somatic cell therapy. 
4293517|Micropropagation of Arnica montana L. using Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
20064966|Genomic DNA isolated from embryogenic cultures of two mango cultivars, 'Hindi' and 'Carabao,' that had been selected for resistance to the culture filtrate of Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, was analyzed using Randomly Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD). In vitro selection caused changes in RAPD markers in the selected embryogenic cultures with respect to the unchallenged control cultures and the stock plants. The differences involved both the absence and the presence of additional RAPD markers in the resistant lines, although the former was most commonly observed. The absence of differences between the unchallenged control of either cultivar and DNA from the leaves of parent trees confirmed that the changes were not due to prolonged maintenance in liquid cultures.
29736160|This study reports an improved protocol for in vitro-shoot and ex vitro acclimation of Bupleurum kaoi, an endangered medicinal herb. Nodal segments were cultured in half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium supplemented with different concentrations of benzyladenine (BA) and kinetin. The presence of 0.25 mgl BA induced the highest number of shoots per explant after 8 wk of culture. Although BA was more effective than kinetin on shoot multiplication, it induced hyperhydric shoots at all concentration tested. The use of dispense paper (DP) instead of aluminum foil (AF) for container closure was found to reduce hyperhydricity and improve ex vitro acclimation. The best survival rate (61%) was obtained when plantlets were grown in MS basal medium contanining 0.5 mgl indole-3-butyric acid and 0.1-0.2 mgl -naphthaleneacetic acid using DP as container closure. Leaves of the plant treated with AF6 (two layers of AF as container closure and 6wk of incubation) lacked epicuticular wax and possessed larger stomata, higher stomata density, and fewer functional stomata compared to those treated with AF2+DP4 (two layers of AF for 2 wk, then replaced AF by three layers of DP for 4wk) and ex vitro-acclimated plantlets.
4293001|Studies were undertaken to optimize tissue culture conditions for micropropagation of Aleppo pine (Pinus halepensis Mill.) from mature embryos and various explants of the embryo. Over 90% of the embryo explants gave rise to adventitious buds within 4 wk. Intact embryos were the most suitable explants for shoot bud induction. Both isolated cotyledons and hypocotyls produced adventitious buds, but these developed slowly and failed to elongate.
20064847|Maize (Zea mays L.) embryogenic type-II calli were grown on medium containing 0, 0.1 M ABA or 60 g/liter sucrose or both before dehydration of solitary somatic embryos under three relative humidity regimes for up to 6 wk. Viability of dehydrated embryos after 2 wk rehydration was assessed by their ability to produce chlorophyll (greening), roots, coleoptiles, and/or leaves. Only embryos sequentially pretreated with ABA and high sucrose remained viable after 2 wk of dehydration at 70% RH. Up to 34% of the somatic embryos survived 2 wk dehydration at 70% RH, whereas embryos dehydrated at 50 or 90% RH exhibited reduced viability (8.7 and 0.8%, respectively). Approximately 15% of the embryos dehydrated at 70% RH developed into plants, whereas 0.9 and 0% of embryos dehydrated at 50 and 90% RH produced plants. Three percent of maize somatic embryos remained viable after 6 wk of dehydration at 70% RH, and 1.7% developed into plants. Embryo size influenced the ability of maize somatic embryos to survive dehydration. Only embryos greater than 5 mm survived 2 wk dehydration at 70% RH.
20461754|Hairy root cultures were induced by inoculating cotyledonary leaves and hypocotyl segments from two cotton species, Gossypium hirsutum and Gossypium barbadense, with Rhizobium rhizogenes 15834. For both species, more hairy roots formed on inoculation sites on cotyledonary leaves than on hypocotyls. The addition of sucrose to basal Murashige-Skoog media increased the frequency of hairy root formation, whereas the addition of naphthalene acetic acid (0.54 M) did not. After transfer to a liquid culture, hairy root growth was very rapid. After 3 wk in liquid culture, both cotton species produced gossypol, a disesquiterpene secondary metabolite with known anticancer activity, and two related methylated derivatives. Most (60-95%) gossypol produced by cultures was retained within the hairy root tissues, but some was found in the media. The average gossypol level observed among 96 different cultures was 15 mg/g of dry culture mass; however, some cultures produced &gt;40 mg/g of dry culture mass. Variation in gossypol levels was greater for cultures arising from different transformation events than for multiple subclones of a single transformant. The high level of gossypol production attained by most of these cultures suggests that they will be valuable for studying the biochemical and molecular aspects of gossypol biosynthesis, capable of producing large amounts of gossypol and related compounds, and useful for generating modified forms of gossypol (e.g., radio-labeled gossypol) for understanding bioactivity mechanisms.
42568710|The efficiency of cell-penetrating peptide (CPP)-mediated dsDNA transfection in triticale microspores was investigated through transient and stable integration of the -glucoronidase (GUS) reporter gene and expression assays in microspore-derived embryos and plantlets. The RecA protein, usually associated with prokaryote homologous recombination, was also tested for its capacity to protect the linear transgene from degradation. Transfections mediated by the CPP nanocarriers Tat2 and Pep1 reduced the number of regenerated embryos from 158 in the control to 122 and 100, respectively. The co-delivery of CPP-dsDNA with RecA protein also resulted in fewer embryos, 87 and 104 for Tat2 and Pep1, respectively. Delivery of dsDNA with Tat2 or Pep1, without RecA, resulted in the highest frequencies of GUS activity in regenerated embryos, at 26%. Co-delivery with RecA decreased the percentage of GUS-positive embryos to 16%. Interestingly, co-delivered RecA-dsDNA reduced the loss of integrity of inserted genetic construct, as observed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of the 5' and 3' ends. GUS activity was also detected in mature haploid and diploid plants. Of all treatments, 31 T plants tested positive for the GUS gene by quantitative PCR, although 50% were derived from the single treatment dsDNA-Tat2. The estimated copy number of the GUS transgene varied between four and eight. This study provides the foundations for CPP-mediated codelivery of dsDNA and protein RecA in haploid microspore nuclei for functional genomic studies in crop species.
20065007|Plastids are surrounded by an envelope consisting of a double membrane. This barrier has to be penetrated or overcome by the DNA when transforming the plastome. Both the biolistic and polyethylene glycol-mediated transformation techniques accomplish this task, albeit by different mechanisms. We were the first laboratory to successfully use the polyethylene glycol (PEG)-method for plastid transformation, yet we use the particle gun when appropriate. In this report we compare the two methods and discuss their shortcomings and advantages. Plastid transformations with various constructs, mainly using the aadA gene as a selective marker, were performed. We point to potential problems likely to be encountered during the transformation and selection processes and offer possibilities for improvement. We give further examples of the successful application of plastome transformation and show its merits in addressing biological questions concerning the elucidation of plastid sequences of unknown function and the control of plastid gene expression.
42568705|Cholera toxin subunit (CTB) has the potential to be an effective adjuvant for mucosal vaccines because of its ability to increase antigen uptake and presentation by antigen-presenting cells through GM1-ganglioside binding. CTB has been produced using different recombinant protein expression systems. This study used the geminiviral replicon system to transiently express CTB in Nicotiana benthamiana. The plant-optimized CTB gene was cloned into a geminiviral vector and infiltrated into N. benthamiana leaves. The highest CTB protein level was observed on day 4 with approximately 4 g/g fresh weight. The Western blot analysis using anti-CTB suggests assembly of CTB into oligomers. Based on the GM1-ELISA results, this CTB transiently expressed in plants showed biological activity for binding the intestinal epithelial cell membrane glycolipid receptor, GM1-glanglioside, which implies its potential as an adjuvant for mucosal vaccines.
4293075|Five parameters were examined for their effect on transformation of Dendrobium tissues by microprojectile bombardment. The superpromoter in pBI426 produced at least 1.5 times as many transient transformants as the single cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter in pBI121 (37 to 69% vs. 0 to 44%) with dark and frequent GUS (
20461642|In the present study, the procedures for induction of somatic embryogenesis (SE) in an in vitro culture of the tulip have been developed. SE was initiated on flower stem explants isolated from "Apeldoorn" bulbs during their low-temperature treatment. Bulbs had not been chilled or had been chilled for 12 or 24 weeks at 5C. The explants were cultured with exogenous auxins 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid (Picloram), -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) at 1-100 M and cytokinins: benzyladenine (BA) and zeatin (ZEA) at 0.5-50 M. Increase in auxin concentrations caused an intensive enlargement of the explant parenchyma, which changed into homogenous colorless callus. On the same media, vein bundles developed into yellowish, nodular callus. Picloram was more efficient in inducing the formation of embryogenic nodular callus than 2,4-D, whereas the latter stimulated formation of colorless callus. The base of the lower part of the flower stem isolated from bulbs chilled for 12 weeks proved to be the best explant for callus formation. The highest number of somatic embryos was produced on medium with 25 M Picloram and 0.5 M BA. Development of adventitious roots was noticed in the presence of 2,4-D. Globular embryos developed into torpedo stage embryos under the influence of BA (5 M) and NAA (0.5 M). Morphological and anatomical data describing development of callus and somatic embryos are presented.
4293525|Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of Arabidopsis, ecotype 'Estland', was established from root explants using kanamycin selection. Continuous light during callus and shoot induction phases was promotive for shoot regeneration, as compared to light/dark cycles. Use of optimized conditions for transformation led to the formation of kanamycin-resistant calluses (up to 77%) and transformed plantlets at a frequency of up to 45%. Southern analysis showed the presence of 1, 2, or more T-DNA inserts in 33%, 50%, and 17% of the primary transformants, respectively. Mendelian, as well as non-Mendelian, inheritance patterns were obtained upon screening the progeny (T1) of various transformants for the expression of gus and nptII genes; the analysis of some of these transformants at the molecular level also corroborated the Mendelian inheritance pattern. Moreover, genotypes of the T1 progeny could be predicted on the basis of T2 progeny analysis.
4293255|Significant progress has been made toward commercial implementation of a large-scale somatic embryogenesis (SE) production process for spruce somatic embryos. The major emphasis was to overlay the established principles and disciplines of "Manufacturing Resource Planning" (MRP) onto the original laboratory-scale protocols used to produce spruce SE and SE products. This approach required extensive and precise characterization of the inputs, actions, labor requirements, and quantification of the resulting outputs for each process step. In addition, computerized process and inventory tracking programs were developed and incorporated. The information collected enabled identification and clear understanding of the biological and physical constraints within the process, and enabled optimization of SE production planning, costing and scheduling activities. Standard operating procedures (SOPs) for each step of the SE process were developed and implemented. The net effect was the productivity of the scaled laboratory spruce SE process was increased by more than 300% without any additional labor inputs, while the direct cost-of-production for a "finished" somatic seedling was reduced by more than 70%.
42568793|The biolistic method is reliable for delivering genes of interest into various species, but low transformation efficiency can be a limiting factor in its application. To test various conditions that could improve peanut transformation via particle bombardment, embryogenic tissues of the peanut cultivar Georgia Green were co-bombarded with two plasmids: one containing a green fluorescent protein gene and one containing a gene of interest plus a selectable marker. The fluorescence in bombarded embryogenic tissues was measured to evaluate transformation efficiency. A 4.6-fold improvement of transformation efficiency was achieved in stably transformed peanut lines by introducing protamine instead of conventional spermidine in a bombardment mixture with 70 ng/shot plasmid DNA and 50 g/shot gold.Unexpectedly, the reduction of plasmid DNA from 700 to 70 ng/shot produced transgenic lines with significantly increased numbers of transgene copies. To determine the transgene copy number during plantlet regeneration, relative quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) was established using fluorescently labeled universal library probes. A correlation of 95% was found for estimation of copy number between Southern blot and qPCR data. Given its speed and high-throughput nature, qPCR can be employed as an effective screening tool to separate high copy number events from low copy number events as early as the shoot formation stage of regeneration.
41496445|Based on the results of carbon source consumption in cell suspension culture of Panax quinquefolium L., 30 g L sucrose was fed into a 5-L stirred tank bioreactor on day 16 of culture to enhance cell density and metabolite production. Using a fed-batch cultivation strategy, polysaccharide production was enhanced to 1.608 g L, which was 1.96-fold greater than with batch cultivation. The maximum saponin yield (7.828 mg L) was obtained on day 24 and was about 36% higher than the yields obtained using batch cultivation. In a two-stage culture process, a combined treatment with sucrose, lactoalbumin hydrolysate, and methyl jasmonate caused a significant increase in total saponin yield (31.52 mg L) in cell cultures after 27 d. This value represents an increase of 4.03-fold compared with the total saponin yield in fed-batch cultivation. The two-stage culture mode provided the best method for the in vitro production of secondary metabolites from P. quinquefolium.
4293349| Factors influencing successful establishment of embryogenic cell-suspension cultures and plant regeneration from long-term cell suspension-derived protoplasts of the recalcitrant Indica rice cultivar IR36 were studied. The factors included cell and protoplast culture medium, protoplast culture procedure, the source of nurse cells, and the regeneration procedure. Embryogenic cell suspension cultures could only be established from mature seed-derived callus of IR36 in AA-based medium (Mller and Grafe, 1978). Protoplast-derived colonies could be obtained only using the filter-membrane nurse-culture procedure when Lolium multiflorum suspension cells served as nurse, rather than wild rice (Oryza ridleyi) and Japonica rice (Oryza sativa cv. Taipei 309) cells. The utilization of a two-step regeneration procedure led to regeneration of fertile plants from protoplasts isolated from 2-yr-old cell suspensions of IR36, one of the most important but recalcitrant rice cultivars. 
4293695|The glutathione-glutathione disulfide redox pair was utilized to improve white spruce somatic embryo development. Mature cotyledonary-stage somatic embryos were divided into two groups (A and B) based on morphological normality and the ability of the mature somatic embryos to convert into plantlets. Group A embryos had four or more cotyledons and converted readily upon germination after a partial drying treatment. Group B embryos had three or fewer cotyledons with a low conversion frequency. The addition of reduced glutathione (GSH) at a concentration of 0.1 mM resulted in an increase in embryo production (total population) with a mean total number of 64 embryos per l00 mg embryogenic tissue as well as an increase in post-embryonic root growth. However, at a higher concentration (1 mM), GSH inhibited embryo formation. The manipulation of the tissue culture environment via the inclusion of glutathione disulfide (GSSG), at concentrations of 0.1 and 1.0 mM, enhanced the development of better-quality embryos. This quality was best exemplified when embryos forming four or more cotyledons increased by at least twofold to 73.9% when treated with 1.0 mM GSSG, compared to 38% in control. Furthermore, this improved quality was reflected by an increased conversion frequency. A 20% increase in the ability of the somatic embryo to produce both root and shoot structures during post-embryonic development was noted when embryos were matured on maturation medium supplemented with 1.0 mM GSSG over the control.
20461572|Transgenic anti-fungal gene expression in heterologous species provides a means to test resistance protein combinations across species barriers. This is the first report of transgenic anti-fungal seed storage protein accumulation in oat seed. An anti-fungal barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) hordothionin (Hth1) gene was genetically engineered into oat (Avena sativa L.) to determine the effect of hordothionin on pathogen resistance. The transgene was expressed in both leaf and seed tissue, with transgenic protein accumulation occurring only in the seed. Transgenic oat line HTH-Av5 expressed c. 94 g HTH/g seed, 19% of native barley seed levels. The anti-fungal activities of HTH fractions from barley cv. Morex and oat (transgenic and control) were tested in an in vitro growth assay against an important small grain pathogen, Fusarium graminearum. The partially purified HTH fractions from control oat seeds did not inhibit fungal growth, while HPLC-purified HTH positive control, as well as partially purified barley and transgenic oat HTH inhibited growth similarly over a range of concentrations. These results indicate hordothionin can be expressed in a heterologous cereal species and still maintain its anti-fungal properties. Future studies with HTH targeted to additional tissues are planned to test for increased fungal resistance.
23016612|In vitro shoots from mature tree explants often show poor root initiation response. Garcinia species are known for vegetative propagation through root suckers in natural environment. To establish a protocol for clonal propagation, apical and intercalary buds of the root suckers obtained from a mature elite tree of Garcinia indica were used as explant source. Multiple shoots were initiated in woody plant medium fortified with combinations of 6-benzylaminopurine and 1-phenyl-3-(1,2,3-Thiadiazol-5-YL)-urea. A pulse treatment of indole-3-butyric acid ranging from 4.9 to 19.6 mM for 30 s and 1 min was tried for root induction. The resulting in vitro plants were successfully hardened. The initiated shoots were also used for in vitro synthesis of hydroxycitric acid in shake flask cultures. The effect of basal medium, incubation period and plant growth regulators on production of hydroxycitric acid in vitro was studied.
4293417| Adventitious shoot buds were induced directly on the adaxial surface of the cotyledons of eight safflower cultivars after 14 d of culture initiation on Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium supplemented with various levels of 6-benzylaminopurine (BA). Maximum shoot organogenesis of 54.4% with 10.2 shoots per responding cotyledon was obtained with 8.87 M BA in the cv. S-144. Regenerated shoots were classified into three groups on the basis of their morphological features and were found to be correlated with the levels of BA. The highest number of normal shoots was obtained from 2.2 M BA treatment. The regenerated shoots of group I (normal shoots) were rooted on half-strength MS medium supplemented with 5.3 M -naphthaleneacetic acid, 3% sucrose and 0.8% bacto-agar. Rooted plantlets were successfully transferred to soil and appeared morphologically normal. Histological studies revealed that shoot buds originated adventitiously from subepidermal cells. 
29736208|Barley, an important member of the cereals, has been successfully transformed through various methods such as particle bombardment, Agrobacterium tumefaciens, DNA uptake, and electroporation. Initially, the transformation in barley concentrated on developing protocols using marker genes such as gus, bar, and hpt. Immature embryos and callus derived from immature embryos were targeted for transformation. Subsequently, genes of agronomic and malting importance have been deployed in barley. Particle bombardment appears to be the preferred choice for barley transformation in the majority of the reports, although Agrobacterium-mediated transformation is being used more often. The current review focuses on the challenges encountered in barley transformation such as somaclonal variation, development of transformation systems for commercial cultivars, gene expression, stability and inheritance, and gene flow. Newer markers such as the green fluorescent protein (gfp), firefly luciferase, and phosphomannose isomerase were found to be useful in the selection of transgenic plants. Tissue-specific promoters such as those for B1-hordein and D-hordein genes, and spike-specific promoters, are increasingly used to drive gene expression. The review also describes recent research on gene-tagging through transformation, insertion of disease resistance, and abiotic stress resistance genes, transformation with genes for improved malting quality, nutrient content, feed quality, and the production of feed enzymes and pharmaceutical compounds.
4293387|Citrus somatic hybridization and cybridization via protoplast fusion has become an integral part of citrus variety improvement programs worldwide. Citrus somatic hybrid plants have been regenerated from more than 200 parental combinations, and several cybrid combinations have also been produced. Applications of somatic hybridization to citrus scion improvement include the production of quality tetraploid breeding parents that can be used in interploid crosses to generate seedless triploids, and the direct production of triploids by haploid + diploid fusion. Applications of somatic hybridization to citrus rootstock improvement include the production of allotetraploid hybrids that combine complementary diploid rootstocks, and to combine citrus with sexually incompatible or difficult to hybridize genera that possess traits of interest for germplasm expansion. A few somatic hybrid tetraploid breeding parents have flowered, are fertile, and are being used as pollen parents to generate triploids. Several allotetraploid somatic hybrid rootstocks are performing well in commercial field trials, and show great promise for tree size control. Seed trees of most of these somatic hybrid rootstocks are producing adequate nucellar seed for standard propagation. Somatic hybridization is expected to have a positive impact on citrus cultivar improvement efforts.
4293651|Somatic embryos could be induced from embryogenic callus originating from mesocotyl as well as leaf-base segments of Paspalum scrobiculatum on Murashige and Skoog (MS) or Chu et al. (N
4293032|A highly regenerable target tissue and a high-frequency DNA delivery system are required for the routine production of transgenic barley. This project separately optimized tissue culture and particle bombardment parameters. Immature zygotic embryos (0.7 to 1.2 mm) were excised and cultured on B5L solid medium. Klages and H930-36 cultivars regenerated significantly more green plants than Sabarlis and Bruce. The regeneration pathway shifted from organogenesis to somatic embryogenesis when maltose was used as the medium carbohydrate source instead of sucrose. More somatic embryos were induced on 5 mg/liter 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid than 2 mg/liter. Gene delivery was optimized using anthocyanin regulatory genes as a transient marker. A 3-mm rupture disc-to-macrocarrier gap distance, a 1-day prebombardment embryo culture period, and a maltose carbohydrate source were each significantly better than other treatments. Double bombardments per plate, a 6-mm macrocarrier fly distance, and 650-psi rupture discs each had the highest number of transiently expressing cells in individual experiments, although the results were not statistically significant compared to the other treatments. Using the optimized parameters, over 200 cells routinely expressed anthocyanin in a bombarded immature embryo. In tissue culture experiments, 350 to 400 green plants regenerated per 100 immature embryos. The improvement of green plant regeneration and gene delivery forms a strong basis to develop a practical barley transformation system.
40793160|An efficient procedure has been developed for inducing somatic embryogenesis and regeneration of plants from tissue cultures of oil palm (Elaeis guineensis Jacq.). Thin transverse sections (thin cell layer expiants) of different position in the shoot apex and leaf sheath of oil palm were cultivated in Murashige and Skoog (MS) (Physiol Plant 15: 473-497, 1962) medium supplemented with 0-450 M picloram and 2,4-D with 3.0% sucrose, 500 mg L glutamine, and 0.3 gL activated charcoal and gelled with 2.5 gL Phytagel. Embryognie calluses were evaluated 12 wk after inoculation. Picloram (450 M) was effective in inducing embryogenic calluses in 41.5% of the basal explants. Embryogenic calluses were maintained on a maturation medium composed of basal media, plus 0.6 M NAA and 12.30 M 2iP, 0.3 gL activated charcoal, and 500 mg L glutamine, with subcultures at 4-wk intervals. Somatic embryos were converted to plants on MS medium with macro-and micronutrients at half-strength, 2% sucrose, and 1.0 gL activated charcoal and gelled with 2.5 gL Phytagel.
41432448|The effect of sap sucrose concentration on fruit expansion is poorly understood. We investigated the effects of sucrose concentration on growth of tomato fruits, detached from the plant after the cell multiplication phase. A semi-open device was built to grow detached fruits, where the fruit pedicel was immersed in a nutrient solution which was automatically replaced each day. About 22 d after anthesis, tomato fruits were harvested, disinfected in alcohol, and placed in the device with a sterile nutrient solution containing 5% sucrose. After about 1 wk, the sucrose concentration was either increased to 15% or maintained at 5%. The fruit expansion rate decreased when the sucrose concentration was increased, and after about 1 wk, these fruits weighed less than those grown at 5% sucrose. Although all the fruits in the device grew much less than those maintained on the plant, a high sap sucrose concentration applied to the excised fruits after the cell multiplication phase inhibited the expansion of tomato fruits. The device and method developed here will be useful for future studies of fruit growth.
29736163|This study reports a protocol for high-efficiency plant regeneration from leaf explants of male Himalayan poplar (Populus ciliata Wall.). Shoots were regenerated at high frequencies from explants grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 0.5 mgl kinetin and 0.2 mgl indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Regenerated shoots developed roots in MS medium supplemented with 0.1 mgl IAA. Himalayan poplar plantlets could be produced within 2 mo. after acclimatization in a sterile mixture of sand and soil.
4293373|A simple, rapid and cost-effective in vitro scheme has been proposed for mass propagating two cultivars of Asiatic lily hybrids. An average of seven bulblets was formed after 17 d when
4293003|Billions of dollars each year are spent on the remediation of contaminated soils in the United States alone. Contaminated soils represent an economic liability as well as a technical challenge. New technologies are needed to address numerous contaminants, especially those that are neither volatile nor mobile in soil solutions. One emerging technology, "phytore-mediation", employs green plants in the remediation process. The technique is relatively new, with few field demonstrations; however, it represents an ever-growing area of research built on a sound technical basis. This technology draws heavily from a wide range of agronomic, biological, and engineering disciplines. Exploiting all plant-influenced biological, microbial, chemical, and physical processes to remediate contaminated sites is the goal of much research in this area. In certain situations, sites remediated with a plant-based technology are expected to have significant economic, aesthetic, and technical advantages over traditional engineering solutions. This paper provides an overview of the phytoremediation area with an emphasis on providing background information and research avenues to plant biologists.
20065021|Plant genetic transformation technologies rely upon the selection and recovery of transformed cells. Selectable marker genes used so far have been either antibiotic resistance genes or herbicide tolerance genes. There is a need to apply alternative principles of selection, as more transgenic traits have to be incorporated into a transgenic crop and because of concern that the use of conventional marker genes may pose a threat to humans and the environment. New classes of marker genes are now available, conferring metabolic advantage of the transgenic cells over the non-transformed cells. The new selection systems, as described in this review, are being used with success and superior performance over the traditional marker systems.
4293763| A protocol for large-scale propagation of Phragmites communis Trin. by adventitious bud formation and plant regeneration was established. Adventitious buds were induced through either the indirect pathway or the direct pathway from stem explants of Phragmites communis. In the indirect pathway, it was essential to decrease the level of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid from 9.1 to 0.5 M to induce adventitious buds and achieve plant regeneration. In the direct pathway, the effects of different benzylaminopurine (BA) concentrations in the medium, and different positions of the explants, on adventitious bud formation were determined. Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 5.4 M -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 53.4 M BA, and the bottom part of stem explants were most responsive for the differentiation of adventitious shoot buds. The highest differentiation frequency was 20-30 adventitious shoot buds per stem node tissue. Elongation and proliferation of adventitious buds were achieved on MS medium supplemented with 13.3 M BA and 5.4 M NAA. Shoots were rooted in liquid half-strength MS medium with 5.4 M NAA + 4.9 M indole-3-butyric acid. Rooted plants survived (87.5%) and grew well after transfer into soil for 4wk. More than 20000 regenerated plants of a salt-tolerant variant line of Phragmites communis have been produced. This protocol is useful for clonal micropropagation and possibly for Agrobacterium-mediated gene transfer in P. communis. 
4293907|Due to the commercial importance of some conifer species, advances in conifer biotechnology often appear to overshadow equally significant advances in the biotechnology of angiosperm forest trees. However, progress with some hardwood forest trees has been just as promising as that made with conifers, and in some areas, has surpassed conifer biotechnology, particularly in the past few years. Until relatively recently, progress with in vitro propagation and gene transfer in hardwood forest trees was confined primarily to the genus Populus. Similarly, compared to other hardwood species, the greatest progress has been made both in the areas of genomics and modification of wood quality traits in this genus. However, the advances in in vitro propagation, in general, and somatic embryogenesis, in particular, have brought mass clonal propagation of other top commercial hardwood trees, in particular Eucalyptus, closer to reality and gene transfer systems have been reported for a number of them. While by far the most extensive application of genomic tools, including genomic sequencing, expressed sequence tags, transcript profiling and molecular markers, has also been made with Populus, these tools are now being applied to wider range of hardwood species. Just as with conifers, potential biotechnology applications for hardwood forest species include development of trees with faster growth, altered wood quality, and insect and disease resistance. In addition, some hardwood species are being manipulated for such non-traditional uses as phytoremediation. Given these advances and the worldwide importance of the products derived from them, it is likely that in vitro propagated and transgenic hardwood forest trees will have just as great an impact on commercial forestry and our environment as the top coniferous species.
23016605|Efficient transformation of lilies is required for their genetic improvement in ornamental and marketable qualities. Although Lilium longiflorum can be transformed by particle bombardment and Agrobacterium, the transformation frequency is low. In this study, we tested new Agrobacterium-mediated transformation methods using shoot segments combined with two different regeneration systems. Shoot segments were co-cultivated for 2 d with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain AGL1/pCAS04 harboring a binary vector carrying the neomycin phosphotransferase II driven by a promoter from the maize ubiquitin gene. The effect of different concentrations of 6-benzyladenine (BA) and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) on regeneration was investigated. The results indicated that Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with 4.4 M BA and 0.5 M -naphthalene acetic acid was optimal for shoot formation, and the nodal stem was the best explant for shoot induction. MS medium with 9.0 M 2,4-D and 0.4 M BA was optimal for callus induction. The direct shoot formation method regenerated 187 plantlets per 100 explants, and 74.4% of the regenerants were positive in transgene PCR. The callus regeneration method regenerated 20 plantlets per 100 explants, and 31.5% of them were PCR positive. Southern blotting confirmed the insertion of transgene in the plant host genome. The direct shoot formation method is more than 20-fold more efficient than previously reported transformation method in this species.
4293398| Several experiments were carried out to develop protocols for the in vitro propagation of pummelo (Citrus grandis L. Osbeck) using shoot-tip explants from seedlings. Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with various concentrations of 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and thidiazuron (TDZ), singly or in combination with -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), was used to determine the rate of shoot proliferation. The response of explants to all concentrations of TDZ was very poor. After 6 wk culture, the most adventitious shoots per explant (average 5.2) were obtained on medium supplemented with 1.8 M BA. NAA with cytokinin in the medium did not improve the rate of shoot multiplication significantly. Addition of 5.8 M gibberellic acid in shoot-proliferation medium during the second subculture improved shoot elongation significantly. Shoot multiplication increased 3.5-fold in each successive subculture. NAA was superior to indolebutyric acid for in vitro root induction. Over 75% of the shoots developed roots when transferred to half-strength MS medium with 1.3, 2.7, or 5.4 M NAA. 
20461553|Adventitious bud regeneration from leaf and internode explants of Aloysia polystachya was achieved. Shoots from nodal segments grown in vitro were cut into pieces and used as sources of explants. Organogenesis was induced from both explants cultured on quarter-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) semisolid medium (plus sucrose 5 g l) containing different combinations of 6-benzyladenine (BA) and -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) under 116 mol m s photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD), 14-h photoperiod, and at a temperature of 27  2C. The type of explant markedly influenced organogenesis and growth of the regenerated shoots. The regeneration frequencies were higher with leaf explants, while the number of shoots formed per responsive explant was greater with internode explants. However, the growth of regenerated shoots from internodes was seriously affected by vitrification. The number of shoots produced per responsive leaf explant increased from one to seven as the percentage of leaf explants producing shoots increased from 20 to more than 80%. NAA at 0.05 M in combination with BA at 0.5 M induced the highest regeneration rate (87  8.8%) after 20 d of culture, yielding 5.9  0.8 shoots per responsive leaf explant. Histological examination confirmed the occurrence of direct organogenesis. The regenerated shoots from the best induction treatment were transferred to a fresh medium without plant growth regulators for 30 d. Finally, the elongated shoots were rooted by pre-treatment in an aqueous solution of NAA at 500 M for 2 h and transferred to 1/4 MS. All plantlets raised in vitro were phenotypically normal and successfully hardened to ex vitro conditions. An experimental field plot with 2-yr-old in vitro-regenerated plants was established.
4293175|Histological methods have contributed significantly to our understanding of in vitro culture systems. A good histological study based on anatomical and histochemical changes provides insight into cellular processes and provides clues that allow for the proposal of hypotheses for further experimentation. This article serves to draw attention to the use of a histological approach to one's experimental system. Some of the common mistakes in the handling and processing of explants are discussed. A protocol for the plastic embedding method is detailed.
20461579|The effect of different cytokinins on in vitro adventitious shoot regeneration from internodal explants of Mentha  gracilis Sole (scotch spearmint) was investigated. Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 100 mg l myo-inositol, 0.4 mg l thiamine-HCl, 2.0% (w/v) sucrose, 10% (v/v) coconut water and supplemented with 4.5 M thidiazuron (TDZ) was effective in inducing adventitious shoot formation from callus. The greatest percentage of explants with shoots (85%) with the highest mean number of shoots per explant (29) was obtained with explants from the 1st and the 2nd internodes from 2-wk-old stock plants growing on a medium containing MS basal salts, 2% sucrose, 100 mg l myo-inositol, 0.4 mg l thiamine-HCl, at TDZ 4.5 M and 10% (v/v) coconut water and solidified with 0.2% (w/v) phytagel. The regenerated shoots rooted on a medium containing MS basal salts, 100 mg l myo-inositol, 0.4 mg l thiamine-HCl, 2.0% sucrose, and 0.054 M naphthalene acetic acid (NAA). Micropropagated plantlets were transplanted into soil and acclimated to greenhouse conditions. This is the first report describing adventitious shoot regeneration of scotch spearmint.
40663767|The present study reports a simple protocol for indirect shoot organogenesis and plant regeneration of Sutherlandia using rachis and stem segments. Different concentrations (0.0-68.08 mol 1 ) of thidiazuron (TDZ) were used for callus induction and shoot organogenesis. The highest percentage of callus formation (97.5%) and the highest percentage of expiants forming shoots (88.8%) were obtained from rachis expiants cultured onto Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (Murashige and Skoog, Physiol. Plant. 15: 473-495, 1962) supplemented with 45.41 mol 1 TDZ. Scanning electron microscopy demonstrated the early development of adventitious shoots derived from callus cultures. Shoot clusters were further developed and grown in MS hormone-free medium. The presence of L-canavanine was determined by thin-layer chromatography and confirmed after column fractionation using silica gel and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Individual shoots were rooted on different concentrations and combinations of MS salt strength and IBA. Half-strength MS salt medium supplemented with 24.6 mol 1 IBA was optimal for root induction in which 78% of shoots were rooted. The in vitro plants were successfully acclimatized in a growth chamber with a 90% survival rate.
4293120| The effect of polyethylene glycol (PEG) combined with abscisic acid (ABA) and KC1 on somatic embryo development in loblolly pine was investigated. Two embryogenic cell lines, which had not produced cotyledonary stage embryos using previously published methods, were employed in this study. As a maturation medium, basal medium was supplemented with 0 to 10% PEG (MW 3350), 10 to 40 mg/l (37.8 to 151.3 M) ABA, 0 or 10 mM KC1, 1.5 g/l activated charcoal, 30 g/l sucrose, and 6 g/l agar. Without PEG in the maturation medium, most somatic embryos at stage 1 could not mature further. Embryogenic tissues on the maturation medium with 5 to 7.5% PEG consistently produced stage 2 and stage 3 somatic embryos. PEG at 10% significantly decreased the number of stage 2 and 3 embryos compared to PEG at 5 to 7.5%. ABA at 40 mg/l (151.3 M), combined with 7.5% PEG and 10 mM KC1, gave the maximum number of stage 3 embryos in both cell lines. ABA at 10 mg/1 (37.8 M) induced an over-proliferation of embryogenic tissues and generally failed to produce mature embryos. KC1 also significantly enhanced initial stage embryo formation and subsequent embryo maturation. 
29736184|Shoots of the marubakaido apple rootstock grown in culture medium containing BBL agar presented significantly lower multiplication rate (MR) compared to MRs found for shoots grown in medium containing A-7002, A-7921, Select,, and Phytagar as gelling agents. In addition, significant hyperhydricity was found for shoots grown in Phytagar and A-7921 agar-containing media. Analysis of elastic (G) and viscous (G) modulus showed that for all of the five agar brands used in this Study, G was always much higher, i.e., typically one order of magnitude higher than G, which characterizes a strong gel. G changed randomly with time for all of the agar brands studied, except for BBL, which presented progressive decline in G throughout the culture cycle. Examination of G, within the same week, showed that Select agar always had the smallest G, while Phytagar always had the highest G. Analysis of the loss tangent (tan =G/G), a better indicator for gel behavior compared to G isolated, showed that tan  for Select and Phytagar were always between tan  values found for A-7002 and BBL. In addition, analysis of tan  also indicated that BBL and Select agars showed a significantly weaker gel network, compared to Phytagar, A-7002 and A-7921 agars after the third week of culture. When seen together, these results indicate that shoot performance for the murubakaido rootstock is not related to agar gel strength. In addition, the high hyperhydricity rate found for shoots grown on agars A-7921 and Phytagar could not be related to agar gel strength, as well. Analysis of HPSEC profiles indicated that the best performance, i.e., multiplication rate, of marubakaido shoots in agars A-7002 and A-7921 is likely to be related to their lower polydispersity and/or smaller amount of high molecular weight fractions, compared to BBL, Phytagar, and Select agars.
4293655|This is the first communication of direct shoot regeneration from fully developed leaves of potted mature Echinacea purpurea plants. Shoot buds were induced directly on the adaxial surface of mature leaf tissues of E. purpurea 30 d after culture initiation on Woody Plant Medium (WPM) supplemented with various levels of 6-benzyladenine (BA). Maximum shoot organogenesis, with 12-20 shoots per leaf segment, was obtained with 5% coconut milk and
20171602| Genetic engineering of cereals currently depends on the use of tissue culture and plant regeneration systems. In wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), immature embryos are the most widely used explant to initiate cultures, but they are inconvenient due to their temporal availability and production requirements. Mature embryos are easily stored and are readily available as mature seeds. However, plant regeneration frequencies from cultures derived from mature embryos are generally low. This research was undertaken to improve callus induction and plant regeneration from wheat mature embryos of cultivar 'Bobwhite'. The effects of four auxins [2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D); 3,6-dichloro-o-anisic acid (dicamba); 4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid (picloram); and 2-(2-methyl-4-chlorophenoxy) propionic acid (2-MCPP)], and the effect of maltose vs. sucrose under filter-sterilized and autoclaved conditions were evaluated. All auxin treatments resulted in callus induction except 2-MCPP. A highly significant effect of auxin type on both callus and plantlet production was detected, though interactions were observed. The effect of sugar type was dependent on the type of auxin used. Substitution of sucrose by maltose enhanced the regeneration ability of callus from embryos cultured on media containing 2,4-D and picloram, but caused an opposite effect on media containing dicamba. Picloram significantly enhanced callus growth, however, embryogenic response and plant regenerability were low. Relative to 2,4-D, dicamba (18 M) resulted in a two-fold increase in the number of plants regenerated per embryo and reduced the amount of time required for plant regeneration by 3-4 wk. 
42568703|The Anacardiaceae family comprises tropical and subtropical deciduous trees with growing economic potential namely, Pistacia vera L. (pistachio), Mangifera indica L. (mango), Anacardium occidentale L. (cashew), and Sclerocarya birrea (A. Rich.) Hochst, subsp. caffra (Sond.) Kokwaro (manila). The rich gene pool offered by their respective wide genetic diversity as well as the greater adaptation to semi-arid environments makes these species ideal candidates for the development of future commercial cultivars. Some notable achievements have been recorded in the micropropagation of these Anacardiaceae species in the order M. indica > P. vera > A. occidentale > S. birrea subsp. caffra. This review highlights advances, challenges, and future prospects in micropropagation research of these Anacardiaceae family members for the past three decades. In addition, the review discusses the potential of liquid cultures and synthetic seed encapsulation technologies in the development of future research strategies.
40663771|An efficient protocol for adventitious root induction from leaf expiants of Morinda citrifolia treated with different concentrations of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) was established in relation to physiological process changes during adventitious root induction under different light sources (fluorescent, red, blue, red + blue, and far-red). Among the different concentrations of IB A and NAA, 1.0 mg 1 IBA was proven as the best auxin source for adventitious root induction under fluorescent light. Higher concentrations of IBA and NAA trigger callus formation in both light and dark conditions. Maximum numbers of adventitious roots were induced under red light (26) followed by blue light (22) and the lowest under far-red light (6). In contrast, numerous callus formations were induced by red + blue followed by red and blue, while the highest root length (1.66 cm) with negligible callusing was observed under fluorescent light. Catalase and guaicacol peroxidase activities were highest under red light followed by fluorescent light and the lowest under red + blue light, but Superoxide dismutase activity was not significantly influenced by different light sources. Ascorbate peroxidase played an important role in detoxification of the harmful effects of hydrogen peroxide (HO). Under fluorescent light, significantly lower accumulation of HO was observed. Accumulation of HO in the induced root under different light showed a positive correlation with peroxidation of lipids and was observed higher under far-red followed by red + blue and blue light.
4293234|Ethylene is a plant growth regulator that is known to influence in vitro morphogenesis. This study investigated the effects of three ethylene inhibitors, silver nitrate (AgNO
4293679|The influences of various carbohydrate sources, dried yeast (DY), and 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) were estimated on growth and development of shoot tip-derived suspension cells of phalaenopsis orchid. Among the carbohydrates tested on Doriataenopsis cultured on gelled medium, glucose at 58.4 mM gave the highest efficiency of protocorm-like body (PLB) formation. Maltose and sorbitol only induced PLB formation without callus proliferation. Sucrose induced comparable callus proliferation to glucose but without PLB formation. In contrast, fructose resulted in half the amount of callus proliferation as occurred with glucose. Lactose was an inadequate carbon source as neither PLB formation nor callus proliferation occurred. DY enhanced cell proliferation at
20461600|We report an improved procedure of in vitro propagation of Scrophularia yoshimurae -- a medicinally important plant species indigenous to Taiwan. Induction of maximum shoot buds (22.75 per explant) was obtained with shoot tip explant cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 1.0 mg l benzyladenine (BA) and 0.2 mg l -naphthaleneacetic acid and gelrite using dispense paper (DP) for ventilation closure of culture vessels. The type of gelling agents (agar and Gelrite) affected both quantity and quality of the shoots induced. Using aluminum foil for ventilation closure resulted in a higher number of hyperhydric shoots. Hyperhydricity was reduced by culturing shoots on a medium devoid of plant growth regulators in conjunction with the use of DP. Plantlet growth in vessels using DP was healthier and all plantlets survived after being transplanted to soil.
20461580|Hybrid embryos resulting from crosses between a highly regenerable maize germplasm (Hi II) and certain elite inbreds were treated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens containing the uidA (GUS) and pat genes under the control of different constitutive promoters. Six of the elite inbred lines were derived from a Lancaster background and three were derived from an Iowa Stiff Stalk background. Hybrid embryos from all three Stiff Stalk lines gave transgenic events at various frequencies, two of them at a comparable frequency to that observed with Hi II embryos. Embryos from only one Lancaster/Hi II hybrid were successfully transformed and the frequency was quite low. Additional Lancaster elite inbreds were then tested as a hybrid with Hi II and failed to produce a single transgenic event. The transgenic Hi II/elite events showed many characteristics of 'hybrid vigor' including more aggressive rooting, thicker stems, and taller stature than plants derived from Hi II events. The hybrid T plants exhibited excellent tassel development in the greenhouse with abundant pollen shed. Seed set in the greenhouse was significantly (3-5-fold) higher than with Hi II transformants. Attempts to transform embryos derived from self or sibling crosses of the four inbred lines that were successful as hybrids with Hi II did not produce any transgenic events. T plants having 50% elite genomic contribution perform nearly as well in the greenhouse as seed-derived elite inbred parents and offer a significantly reduced time line for recombinant protein product development from transgenic plants.
41496507|A regeneration system was developed for oriental lily (Lilium orientalis) based on both leaf and bulb scale. Adventitious shoots were regenerated from leaves of vitro cultures on Murashige and Skoog medium containing thidiazuron (TDZ) or 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). The highest percent regeneration from leaf expiants was 74.2%, being observed on medium containing 10.8 M TDZ and 0.54 M NAA. The highest mean number of shoots generated was 4.4 and was obtained from bulb scale explants on medium containing 0.54 M TDZ and 0.54 M NAA. Adventitious shoots were successfully rooted at rates ranging from 79.2% to 100%. The rooted plantlets survived after acclimatization in the greenhouse. The effect of kanamycin concentration on adventitious shoot regeneration was also evaluated, a value of 100 mg l being suggested as a lethal dose for lily transformation. Eighteen ISSR markers were employed to determine the genetic stability of the regenerated shoots in comparison to their mother plant. Eleven primers in total produced 70 clear and reproducible bands. Genetic similarity indicators among the clonal derivatives and the mother plant ranged from 0.92 to 1.0. All 15 micropropagated progenies and the mother plant could be grouped together in one major cluster with a similarity level of 92%. The somaclonal variation rate across the plantlets was estimated as 4.2%, indicating that direct shoot formation from expiant regeneration is a safe method for multiplication of "true-to-type" plants.
4293090| Two regenerative alfalfa genotypes were transformed with Agrobacterium tumefaciens with binary vectors containing the coding sequences for -glucuronidase (GUS) and npt II (kanamycin resistance). The regenerative genotypes and their transgenic populations were agronomically inferior, and one was a somaclonal variant for flower color. GUS was used as a dominant genetic marker in a model system for studying backcrossing to improve transgenic alfalfa. Agronomic yield deficiencies and somaclonal changes were corrected by one to three backcrosses to cultivar genotypes, depending on the vigor of the original transformant. Three backcrosses were considered optimal because progeny contain 94% cultivar germplasm and could be used as parents of a new cultivar. Use of different cultivar genotypes each generation of back-crossing minimized inbreeding and maximized the heterotic potential of backcross derivatives. The improvement of transgenic alfalfa by backcrossing using a dominant marker required only as much time as the original transformation experiment. 
41432835|The effectiveness of thidiazuron (TDZ) in promoting in vitro organogenesis in cultured embryo axes and cotyledons from two Spanish Mediterranean provenances of Pinus pinaster Aiton is reported. Application of 44.4 M TDZ as a 6-d pulse on DCR medium and subsequent transference of maritime pine expiants to the same medium without growth regulators, but supplemented with activated charcoal, produced between 17 and 19 axillary shoots per embryo axis with no differences between the two provenances.The same sequential treatment allowed adventitious shoot differentiation on 75% of the cotyledons, with a mean of 12.2 shoots regenerated per explant. Axillary and adventitious shoots were rooted ex vitro after an auxin pulse of indole-3-butyric acid and 1-naphthaleneacetic acid. The micropropagation protocols presented here should enable vegetative multiplication of selected families, and elite trees from these Spanish Mediterranean provenances of maritime pine.
29736210|Agrobacterium rhizogenes strain K599 (pRi2659), a causative agent of hairy root disease, effectively induces hairy root formation in a variety of plant species, including numerous soybean (Glycine max) cultivars. Because Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of soybean remains challenging and labor intensive, K599 appeared a suitable progenitor for new agrobacteria strains for plant transformation. In this paper, we report the disarming and sequencing of pRi2659 and the usefulness of the resulting disarmed strain in plant transformation studies of Arabidopsis thaliana, maize (Zea mays), tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum), and soybean (G. max).
4293028| Somatic embryogenesis has been shown to be an imperfect recapitulation of stages involved to form embryos from vegetative tissues. Although abscisic acid has been implicated in normalizing development, studies that specifically investigate conversion (vegetative leaf initiation) in somatic embryos are lacking. This report documents a follow-up of a study that implicated abscisic acid as a vital factor in allowing embryos of Daucus carota to progress to the plantlet stage. Abscisic acid was determined to enhance conversion at doses ranging from 1 to 50 M. Younger embryo stages were more responsive to abscisic acid application with regards to plantlet recovery. Pulses of abscisic acid were shown to elicit more rapid response with younger embryo stages, indicating more plastic development. Fluridone, an abscisic acid synthesis inhibitor, was shown to dramatically reduce conversion, even at low doses (<5 M). When abscisic acid was applied concurrently with fluridone, partial restoration of conversion was observed. Histologically, fluridone was seen to cause pronounced vacuolation in the shoot apical notch which resulted in the loss of meristematic cells, negating conversion capacity. Quantitation of total cytoplasmic area showed that abscisic acid reduced vacuolar intrusion into the apical notch, while fluridone caused a significant increase in vacuolation of cells in this region. This report documents further evidence of a role for abscisic acid in plantlet establishment from somatic embryos of Daucus carota. 
23326871|In order to optimize plant regeneration techniques for bulbing fennel [Foeniculum vulgare Mill. subsp. vulgare var. azoricum (Mill.) Thell] via somatic embryogenesis, three different media were tested on four Sicilian fennel ecotypes derived from seed collections. Plant regeneration was obtained through the use of immature inflorescences as explants. Through comparison of different auxins, naphthoxyacetic acid resulted in high-level induction of embryogenic callus at the lowest concentration (4 M), in combination with 6-benzylaminopurine or thidiazuron. After germination of somatic embryos, regenerated plantlets were recovered on medium containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog salts and vitamins in the absence of plant growth regulators. Regenerated plants were successfully acclimatized (70 %) in a growth chamber prior to transplantation into an open field. The plants appeared phenotypically normal, and both genetic stability and uniformity were confirmed by random amplified polymorphism DNA analysis. The results represent a significant advance on previous reports, due to the high embryogenic ability of immature inflorescence from different ecotypes and the high percentage of regenerated plantlets acclimatized in ex vitro conditions.
41496517|Nodal expiants of rice cultivar Pathumthani 1 (PT1; short-day photoperiod insensitive) were collected, surface-disinfected, and cultured on modified MS medium under in vitro conditions for 90 d. A total of 60% nodal expiants generated flowering plantlets (with one inflorescence per cluster). The net photosynthetic rate was greater, and soluble sugars (including glucose, fructose, and sucrose) accumulated to higher levels in the leaves of flowering as compared to non-flowering plants. In contrast, chlorophyll a, chlorophyll b, total chlorophyll, and total carotenoid content were enriched to a greater degree in the leaves of non-flowering as compared to flowering plants. Also, growth performance parameters, including plant height, number of leaves per plant, leaf area, fresh weight, and dry weight of plantlets derived from seedlings were superior to those of plantlets derived from nodal explants. In addition, the protocol proved to successfully induce flowering in KDML 105, a short-day photoperiod-sensitive rice cultivar.
20541003|Phyllanthus amarus Schum & Thonn. is a source of various pharmacologically active compounds such as phyllanthin, hypophyllanthin, gallic acid, catechin, and nirurin, a flavone glycoside. A genetic transformation method using Agrobacterium tumefaciens was developed for this plant species for the first time. Shoot tips of full grown plants were used as explants for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Transgenic plants were obtained by co-cultivation of shoot tips explants and A. tumefaciens strain LBA4404 containing the pCAMBIA 2301 plasmid harboring neomycin phosphotransferase II (NPT II) and -glucuronidase encoding (GUS) genes in the T-DNA region in the presence of 200 M acetosyringone. Integration of the NPT II gene into the genome of transgenic plants was verified by PCR and Southern blot analyses. Expression of the NPT II gene was confirmed by RT-PCR analysis. An average of 25 explants was used, out of which an average of 19 explants produced kanamycin-resistant shoots, which rooted to produce 13 complete transgenic plants.
4293459| A protocol for rapid in vitro propagation using nodal explants obtained from 2-yr-old, field-grown medicinal plants of Plumbago zeylanica L. belonging to the family Plumbaginaceae is described. High frequency bud break and fast development of shoots were induced on Murashige and Skoog's basal medium supplemented with 27.2 M adenine sulfate +2.46 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). Induction of rooting was achieved by transferring the shoots to the same basal medium containing 4.92 M IBA. Using our protocol from one twig of P. zeylanica (eight responsive nodes per explant shoot) within a period of 5 mo., eight plantlets could be raised. After a hardening period of 4 wk, there was a 90% transplantation success in the field compared to the 60-65% survival of plantlets recorded in the experiments of previous workers. The plantlets derived through in vitro propagation mimic the growth and morphological characteristics of the donor plants. 
20064937|A three-step medium sequence was developed for rooting microcuttings of American chestnut [Castanea dentata (Marsh.) Borkh.]. First, individual shoots or clumps of shoots were cultivated on shoot-elongation medium for 4-8 wk until shoots were 2-3 cm long. The medium consisted of modified Woody Plant Medium, 500 mg/l polyvinylpyrrolidone (MW 40,000), and 0.89 M benzyladenine. Microcuttings were then excised, vertically split at the base to approximately 2 mm through the pith, dipped in 5 or 10 mM indolebutyric acid for 1 min, and cultivated on half-strength Murashige and Skoog basal medium plus 0.2 g/l charcoal for 2 wk. During that time, roots were induced and became visible. Finally, the microcuttings were transferred back to shoot-elongation medium and cultivated for 3 wk, allowing growth of both roots and shoots. Using this protocol with 3 genotypes derived from one mature tree and two 1-yr-old seedlings, 57 to 73% rooting was obtained with less than 23% shoot-tip necrosis.
4293388|An alternative method for transforming sweet orange [Citrus sinensis (L.) Osbeck] has been developed. Plasmid DNA encoding the non-destructive selectable marker enhanced green fluorescent protein gene was introduced using polyethylene glycol into protoplasts of 'Itaborai' sweet orange isolated from an embryogenic nucellar-derived suspension culture. Following protoplast culture in liquid medium and transfer to solid medium, transformed calluses were identified via expression of the green fluorescent protein, physically separated from non-transformed tissue, and cultured on somatic embryogenesis induction medium. Transgenic plantlets were recovered from germinating somatic embryos and by in vitro rooting of shoots. To expedite transgenic plant recovery, regenerated shoots were also micrografted onto sour orange seedling rootstocks. Presence of the transgene in calluses and regenerated sweet orange plants was verified by gene amplification and Southern analyses. Potential advantages of this transformation system over the commonly used Agrobacterium methods for citrus are discussed.
4293141|A method for the production of hairy roots of Aconitum heterophyllum wall. is reported for the first time. Embryogenic callus cultures were successfully transformed using Agrobacterium rhizogenes strains viz. LBA 9402, LBA 9360, and A4 for the induction of hairy roots. The transgenic nature of hairy roots was confirmed by mannopine assay using paper electrophoresis. Best growth of transformed roots was obtained on 1/4 MS (Murashige and Skoog, 1962) medium with 3% sucrose. Total alkaloid (aconites) content of transformed roots was 2.96%, which was 3.75 times higher compared to 0.79% in the nontransformed (control) roots. Thin layer chromatography (TLC) analysis of the components of aconites in the transformed roots revealed the presence of heteratisine, atisine, and hetidine.
4293402|Nicotiana tabacum explants were grown on stage II micropropagation medium containing
20064855|Stipular bud (SB) formation occurred spontaneously on "Gorella" strawberry leaf stipules during proliferation phase on Boxus medium. These buds gave rise to normal shoots on the inner median zone between the stipule tips. Some stipular buds also have been observed on other parts of adaxial surface of the stipule. Stipular bud formation took place directly on the stipule without an intermediate callus. The first stage consisted of subspherical protrusions of small cells which progressively differentiated into shoots that were able to proliferate and to root. Scanning electron microscopy was used to examine the developmental stages of this adventitious organogenesis and to describe morphologic abnormalities, e.g., multiapex formation and fasciation. In vitro cloning of plantlets was made from axillary and SBs produced by the same tufts. The greater flowering abundance of stipular plants resulted in a drastic reduction of the commercial production and the fruit caliber when compared to axillary plants. However, the general phenotype of the mother cultivar (Gorella) was not affected in either case.
20064957|Opium poppy (Papaver somniferum L.) contains a number of pharmaceutically important alkaloids of the benzylisoquinoline type including morphine, codeine, papaverine, and sanguinarine. Although these alkaloids accumulate to high concentrations in various organs of the intact plant, only the phytoalexin sanguinarine has been found at significant levels in opium poppy cell cultures. Moreover, even sanguinarine biosynthesis is not constitutive in poppy cell suspension cultures, but is typically induced only after treatment with a fungal-derived elicitor. The absence of appreciable quantities of alkaloids in dedifferentiated opium poppy cell cultures suggests that benzylisoquinoline alkaloid biosynthesis is developmentally regulated and requires the differentiation of specific tissues. In the 40 yr since opium poppy tissues were first cultured in vitro, a number of reports on the redifferentiation of roots and buds from callus have appeared. A requirement for the presence of specialized laticifer cells has been suggested before certain alkaloids, such as morphine and codeine, can accumulate. Laticifers represent a complex internal secretory system in about 15 plant families and appear to have multiple evolutionary origins. Opium poppy laticifers differentiate from procambial cells and undergo articulation and anastomosis to form a continuous network of elements associated with the phloem throughout much of the intact plant. Latex is the combined cytoplasm of fused laticifer vessels, and contains numerous large alkaloid vesicles in which latex-associated poppy alkaloids are sequestered. The formation of alkaloid vesicles, the subcellular compartmentation of alkaloid biosynthesis, and the tissue-specific localization and control of these processes are important unresolved problems in plant cell biology. Alkaloid biosynthesis in opium poppy is an excellent model system to investigate the developmental regulation and cell biology of complex metabolic pathways, and the relationship between metabolic regulation and cell-type specific differentiation. In this review, we summarize the literature on the roles of cellular differentiation and plant development in alkaloid biosynthesis in opium poppy plants and tissue cultures.
4293110|Shoot organogenesis of Guazuma crinita Mart. from root and petiole explants was obtained via adventitious bud formation. Root segments and petiole explants excised from in vitro generated plantlets were cultured on woody plant medium (WPM) supplemented with [trans-6-(4-hydroxy-3-methylbut-2-enyl) aminopurine] (zeatin) or with [6-benzyladenine] (BA). After 45 d of culturing, clumps of green bulbous structures containing small adventitious buds (clusters) were generated in all explants cultured with
23326876|Eucalyptus benthamii is an important component of forestry plantations in cold regions, but it is difficult to obtain clonal plants of this species, especially by low rooting. In this study, we developed a method for cloning selected genotypes of E. benthamii using a micropropagation technique, enabling the formation of a clonal micro-garden. Nodal segments from sprouts of mini-stumps in the clonal mini-garden were used as explants. After in vitro establishment of the explants, we tested two selected clones (BP101 and BP118), three culture media (Wood Plant Medium (WPM), Correia and colleagues JADS medium, and Murashige and Skoog medium), and two plant growth regulators (6-benzylaminopurine (BAP) and -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA)) for the multiplication of adventitious buds. Additionally, combinations of two other plant growth regulators (BAP and gibberellic acid (GA 3 )) were tested for the elongation of shoots. The in vitro and ex vitro rooting of micro-plantlets prior to acclimatization were compared. The in vitro bud multiplication of E. benthamii depended on the clone, culture medium, and concentration of plant growth regulators. The best results were obtained with WPM supplemented with 0.5 mg L -1 BAP and 0.05 mg L -1 NAA. The elongation of shoots depended on the clone and plant growth regulator, and the best results were obtained with nutrient medium free of GA 3 and BAP. Histological analysis showed that both in vitro and ex vitro rooting were successful, resulting in normal development of adventitious roots showing a vascular connection with the vascular cambium. The new protocol is efficient for micro-plantlet production of E. benthamii and can be used for the formation of a clonal micro-garden for other Eucalyptus or tree species.
4293929| A method of clonal germplasm preservation utilizing dehydrated somatic embryos and cool temperature storage conditions was demonstrated. Somatic embryos of grapevine (Vitis vinifera L.) Autumn Seedless and Chardonnay were produced from suspension cultures. After washing twice with sterile water, mature somatic embryos were blot-dried and placed on sterile filter paper in an open Petri dish in a laminar flow hood until they reached about 25% of their initial weight. Approximately 300 dried embryos were placed in each sterile 90 x 15 mm Petri dish, which was tightly sealed with two layers of Parafilm. Sealed dishes were stored in the dark at 4C in a standard refrigerator. Samples of 25-60 individual dehydrated somatic embryos were periodically tested for viability by placing them on solidified MS medium for germination and plant regeneration. After 42 mo. of dehydrated storage, 90% of the somatic embryos regenerated into plants. To further test utility of this storage method, dehydrated embryos stored for 12 and 26 mo. were shipped from Florida to Washington where 75 and 87.5% regenerated into plants, respectively. Cool temperature storage of dehydrated somatic embryos is a simple and inexpensive method of clonal germplasm preservation when compared to alternatives such as cryopreservation. 
25623016|Hairy root cultures of Echinacea, one of the most important medicinal plants in the US, represent a valuable alternative to field cultivation for the production of bioactive secondary metabolites. In this study, the three most economically important species of Echinacea (Echinacea purpurea, Echinacea pallida, and Echinacea angustifolia) were readily transformed with two strains of Agrobacterium that produce the hairy root phenotype. Transformed roots of all three species exhibited consistent accelerated growth and increased levels of alkamide production. Optimization of the culture of Echinacea hairy roots was implemented to enhance both growth and alkamide production concomitantly. The use of half-strength Gamborg's B5 medium supplemented with 3.0% sucrose was twice as effective in maintaining hairy root production than any other media tested. The addition of indolebutyric acid increased the growth rate of roots by as much as 14-fold. Alkamide production increased severalfold in response to the addition of the elicitor, jasmonic acid, but did not respond to the addition of indolebutyric acid. Induced accumulation of the important bioactive compounds, alkamides 2 and 8, was observed both in transformed roots and in response to jasmonic acid treatments. The results of this study demonstrate the efficacy of hairy root cultures of Echinacea for the in vitro production of alkamides and establish guidelines for optimum yield.
4293176|Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy provides a unique modality for the study of tissue-cultured plant cells. One of its major attractions is that it allows noninvasive studies of plant material. In addition, it can provide insight into the pH in the vacuole and cytoplasm, and into the compartmentalization of certain metabolites. In this review we show how phosphorus-31 NMR is used to study intracellular pH, phosphate uptake and storage, and energy metabolism in suspension cells of Catharanthus roseus. In addition, multinuclear NMR studies of the uptake of ammonium and the gradients of K
29736223|The oligogalacturonides derived from trifluoroacetic acid hydrolysis and their monomer galacturonic acid were tested for their effect on development of strawberry explants (Fragaria x ananassa) in vitro. The addition of oligogalacturonides or galacturonic acid in the plant tissue culture medium at concentrations of 0.1 or 1.0 mM increased shoot and leaf number in the presence of added benzy1 adenine. The response to oligogalacturonides or galacturonic acid was maintained in the absence of benzy1 adenine but was lessened. Conversely, root elongation was increased in the absence of benzy1 adenine. A combined analysis of these experiments also indicated the increase in shoot or leaf number. High-performance anion exchange chromatography of the bioassayed oligogalacturonide samples using a pulsed amperometric detector revealed that the sample consisted of galactouronides with a degree of polymerization from 1 to 5 and the proportion of the monomer was very high (94%).
4293377|A complete and efficient protocol is presented for plant regeneration from cell-suspension cultures of Dalbergia sissoo Roxb., an economically important leguminous tree. Factors influencing callus initiation, establishment of cell-suspension culture, callus formation from embedded microcolonies, and shoot organogenesis from suspension-derived callus were identified. Of the two different auxins tested, callus induction was better on a medium containing naphthalene acetic acid (NAA). The percentage of callus induction increased considerably when NAA at
4293787|Shi-hu (Dendrobium spp. or Dendrobii Herba) is one of the important traditional Chinese medicines. The commercially available crude drug in the traditional medicine market is composed mainly of three species: Dendrobium tosaense, D. nobile, and D. moniliforme. An efficient method of propagation has been developed via asymbiotic germination of seeds in vitro for the medicinally important D. tosaense. Seeds from capsules of D. tosaense collected 8-14 wk after artificial pollination germinated after being cultured on full-strength or half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium devoid of plant growth regulators and with 3% sucrose. Germination of seeds varied with the medium type and seed maturity. Germinated seedlings after transfer to MS medium with 1.5% sucrose and 8% banana homogenate or potato juice or coconut water and 20 wk of incubation developed into healthy plantlets. Well-developed plantlets were transplanted to moss or moss and tree fern or tree fern as substrates in plastic trays and transferred to a greenhouse for hardening. All plants survived, attained maturity, and developed normal flower and capsule after one and a half years. This protocol of successful plant regeneration by asymbiotic seed germination should permit rapid propagation and conservation of this medicinally important Dendrobium species.
4293010|The production of hybrid seed is facilitated if one parent possesses a male-sterile cytoplasm. Introduction of the cytoplasm of male-sterile radish (Raphanus sativus L.) into rapeseed (Brassica napus L.) results not only in transfer of the desirable male-sterile trait but induces a chlorophyll defect in the backcrossed male-sterile plants. In this study we show that the defect manifests itself in two different ways in the alloplasmic plants: a) smaller and fewer chloroplasts with an impaired ultrastructure and b) an increase in chlorophyll fluorescence. Defective chloroplasts were characterized by a reduction in both the number and size of grana, the latter due to poor stacking of thylakoids and with frequent discontinuity in the intergranal thylakoid systems. The changed chloroplast morphology and the increase in chlorophyll fluorescence are probably the cause of the lowered photosynthetic efficiency associated with the alloplasmic plants. We propose that the deficiency is the result of incompatibility between the genomes of the radish chloroplast and the rapeseed nucleus. Supporting this hypothesis are studies of male-sterile rapeseed plants in which, by protoplast fusion, the radish chloroplasts were substituted by those of normal male-fertile rapeseed. Such plants showed complete restoration of their photosynthetic potential and displayed both normal chloroplast ultrastructure and normal levels of chlorophyll fluorescence.
4293560|Cell cultures of freshwater wetland monocots were regenerated, plants were grown in the greenhouse, and then established and evaluated in wetlands. Typha (cattail), Juncus (rushes), Scirpus (bulrushes), and Carex (sedges) were studied because they are common, dominant, high biomass wetland-adapted plants, tolerant of chemically diverse ecosystems. The goal was to define micropropagation and wetland establishment protocols. Tissue culture systems defined for numerous monocot crop species can be readily applied to wetland plants, with a few modifications. Issues addressed were selection of explant material, shoot and root regeneration conditions, culture age verses regenerability, greenhouse acclimatization needs, plant uniformity and requirements for wetland establishment. In vitro-germinated seedlings were an excellent source of pathogen-free regenerable tissue. T. latifolia, T. angustifolia, and J. accuminatus were regenerated from callus induced in the dark with picloram, then transferred to medium with benzyladenine in the light to promote shoot organogenesis. J. effusus, S. polyphyllus, and C. lurida could not be regenerated from callus, which turned black. They could be regenerated directly by culturing intact seedlings directly on cytokinin media in the light. Shoots rooted with little or no auxin. J. effusus rooting was promoted by the addition of charcoal to the medium. Covering plants for the first 2 wk with plastic facilitated greenhouse establishment. There were high rates of greenhouse and wetland survival. No abnormal plants were observed. These regeneration systems could be utilized for the production of wetland plants for potential application in habitat restoration and wetland creation, and would provide an alternative to field collection.
4293741| Black grama (Bouteloua eriopoda) is an important forage grass in southwestern USA rangelands. Plants were regenerated by somatic embryogenesis. Surface-disinfested seeds were germinated and the embryonic shoots were excised and cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium gelled with agar. Callus was induced from apical meristems. Calluses were cultured on MS solid medium with six concentrations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or Dicamba (6-dichloro-o-anisic acid) for 6 wk under light or dark conditions. Somatic embryo induction was greatest on 4.52 M Dicamba, under light, after transferring to an auxin-free medium. Embryo development progressed from globular torpedo to mature embryos phenotypically identical to those naturally produced in seed. These germinated and grew into intact plants and were established in soil and grown to maturity. To our knowledge, this is the first report of somatic embryo induction and regeneration in black grama grass. 
4293041| We investigated abscisic acid (ABA) metabolism among Norway and white spruce somatic embryo cultures which exhibited differences in maturation response when placed on racemic abscisic acid [()-ABA]. Differences in metabolic rate among the spruce genotypes could affect the ABA pool available for the maturation process, and might therefore be responsible for the differences in maturation response. The production of cotyledonary (stage 3) somatic embryos in cultures (genotypes) of Norway spruce (PA86:26A and PA88:25B) and of white spruce (WSlFcryoD and WS46) was compared. In each species pair one of the two genotypes failed to show stage 3 embryo development (respectively, PA88:25B and WS46). The investigation of ABA metabolism of each species pair showed that no substantial differences in ABA consumption or in the production of metabolites occurred. In each case ABA was metabolized to phaseic acid and dihydrophaseic acid over the 42-day culture period, metabolites were recoverable from the agar-solidified medium, and the sum of residual ABA and metabolites were equivalent to the ABA initially supplied. The results indicate that the process of ABA metabolism occurs essentially independently of somatic embryo maturation. 
29736225|The objective was to set up a pilot scale process for robusta (Coffea canephora) industrial propagation by somatic embryogenesis in liquid media. A batch production of pre-germinated embryos was initiated once every 2 mo. in 2003 and 2004, then every mo. in 2005. Each run batch requires 4 to 6 mo. to produce the pre-germinated somatic embryos and consists of three phases: (1) the development of torpedo stage embryos in Erlenmeyer flasks, (2) pre-germination in temporary immersion bioreactors to allow maturation from the torpedo stage to the cotyledonary stage, (3) maintaining the embryos under storage conditions before their shipment to coffee producing countries. Starting from 1 kg of embryogenic calluses, a total of 4.4 million pre-germinated embryos for 17 clones were produced over 3 yr. This embryo number was enough to potentially regenerate 2 million plants, as the global embryo-to-plantlet conversion rate was estimated to 46% after acclimatization and complete germination in the greenhouse. At the end of April 2006, 600,000 somatic seedlings were transferred into plastic bags in nurseries or were already planted in the fields, mainly in Thailand. The current capacity allows the production of 2.5 million embryos per year, equivalent to a potential of about 1.0 million plantlets. The technical package has recently been transferred to National Institutes in Mexico, Thailand, and Vietnam.
4292956|Gene transfer and plant regeneration systems have been developed for European larch (Larix decidua Mill.) in our laboratory. Aseptically germinated young seedlings were hypocotyl wound-inoculated with Agrobacterium rhizogenes strains 11325 containing a wild-type Ri (root-inducing) plasmid. Swollen stems appeared at infected wounds followed by either abundant hairy roots or adventitious shoot buds that developed within 3 to 4 wk after inoculation. No symptoms were seen on wounded but uninoculated seedlings. We demonstrated agrobacteria attached to larch cells by examination of scanning electron micrographs. Subsequently, calli derived from symptomatic tissues exhibited phytohormone autotrophic growth. Adventitious buds were elongated and rooted in vitro before being transferred to the greenhouse where the transformed whole plants grew normally. Transformants tested positive for opine production and transformation was further confirmed by Southern blot analysis with larch genomic DNAs isolated from both proliferated calli and needle tissue of transgenic plants.
4293860|Kalopanax pictus (Thunb.) Nakai is a tall tree, and its wood has been used in making furniture, while its stem bark is used for medicinal purposes. Here, we report on the micropropagation of Kalopanax pictus via somatic embryogenesis. Embryogenic callus was induced from immature zygotic embryos. The frequency of embryogenic callus induction is influenced by days of seed harvest. Callus formation was primarily observed along the radicle tips of zygotic embryos incubated on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with
4293436|The application of bioreactor culture techniques for plant micropropagation is regarded as one of the ways to reduce production cost by scaling-up and automation. Recent experiments are restricted to a small number of species that, however, demonstrate the feasibility of this technology. Periodic immersion liquid culture using ebb and flood system and column-type bubble bioreactors equipped with a raft support system to maintain plant tissues at the air and liquid interface were found to be suitable for micropropagation of plants via the organogenic pathway. Balloon-type bubble bioreactors proved to be fit for micropropagation via somatic embryogenesis with less shear stress on cultured cells. Several cultivars of Lilium were successfully propagated using a two-stage culture method in one bioreactor. A large number of small-scale segments were cultured for 4 wk with periodic immersion liquid culture to induce multiple bulblets from each segment, then the bulblet induction medium was changed into bulblet growth medium by employing a submerged liquid bioreactor system. This culture method resulted in a nearly 10-fold increase in bulblet growth compared to conventional culture with solid medium. About 20 000 cuttings of virus-free potato could be obtained from 120 single-node explants in a 20-liter balloon-type bubble bioreactor after 8 wk of culture. The percentage of ex vitro survival and root induction of the cuttings was more than 95%. Other successful results were obtained from the micropropagation and transplant production of chrysanthemum, sweetpotato, Chinese foxglove. Propagation systems via somatic embryogenesis in Acanthopanax koreanum and thornless Aralia elata were established using a liquid suspension of embryogenic determined cells. More than 500 000 somatic embryos in different stages were harvested from a 10-liter balloon-type bubble bioreactor after a 6-wk culture. Further development of these embryos in solid medium and eventually in the field was successful. The bioreactor system could reduce initial and operational cost for micropropagation, but further development of sophisticated technology might be needed to apply this system to plant micropropagation industries.
20064815|Recent advances in plant cell and molecular biology have furthered the genetic manipulation of many plant species and advanced the options for crop improvement. Among the many targets for genetic manipulation, microspores offer several unique advantages: they are haploid, single-celled, and highly synchronized. In many plant species microspores develop into haploid embryos, and eventually haploid and doubled haploid plants, after in vitro anther or microspore culture. This induced in vitro developmental pathway of microspores, termed microspore embryogenesis, can be used to recover individual homozygous plants from microspores and microspore-derived embryos after genetic manipulation such as mutagenesis and gene transfer. The highly efficient microspore embryogenesis system in Brassica napus has been used successfully to obtain various mutants after microspore mutagenesis, and to achieve gene transfer mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens.
4293717| Eggplant (Solanum melongena L.) was efficiently regenerated from cultured roots of 15-d-old seedlings on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 0.45 M thidiazuron and 13.3 M 6-benzyladenine. Within 28 d of culture initiation, induction of organogenic calluses and subsequent differentiation into shoot buds were observed. Shoot buds upon subculture to MS basal medium elongated into healthy shoots. Excised shoots (2-4 cm) were rooted on Soilrite  irrigated with water either in vitro or in vivo. Plants with well-developed root systems were established under field conditions after hardening in the glasshouse, where they developed into flowering plants and produced mature fruits with viable seeds. 
20064883|An Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated procedure for transformation of papaya (Carica papaya) was developed. Transgenic plants were obtained from somatic embryos that spontaneously formed at the base of transformed roots, induced from leaf discs infected with A. rhizogenes. Transformation was monitored by autonomous growth of roots and somatic embryos, resistance to kanamycin, -glucuronidase activity (GUS), and Southern hybridization analysis. Over one-third of the infected leaf explants produced transformed roots with GUS activity, from which 10% spontaneously produced somatic embryos. Histological analysis of A. rhizogenes-transformed embryos showed that they have an altered symmetry between the shoot apex and the root meristem when compared to somatic embryos induced with hormone treatment from control explants. Transgenic papaya plants containing A. rhizogenes rol genes were more sensitive to auxins, developed wrinkled leaves, and grew slower than nontransformed plants.
4293720| A highly reproducible method for regeneration of Coffea arabica and C. canephora plants via direct somatic embryogenesis from cultured leaf and stem segments of regenerated plants was developed. Embryogenesis was influenced by the presence of triacontanol (TRIA) in the medium. TRIA incorporated at 4.55 and 11.38 M in half-strength MS basal medium containing 1.1 M 6-benzyladenine (BA) and 2.28 M indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) induced direct somatic embryogenesis in both species. A maximum of 260  31.8 and 59.2  12.8 somatic embryos per culture were induced from in vitro leaf explants of C. arabica and C. canephora, respectively. TRIA also induced embryo formation from in vitro stem segment callus tissues along with multiplication of primary embryos into secondary embryos. By using TRIA, it was possible to obtain somatic embryogenesis in C. arabica and C. canephora. 
23016748|Recalcitrance to tissue culture is observed in some genotypes of Brassica napus. Several studies have confirmed that Pluronic F-68 has growth-promoting effects on numerous tissue types. This work investigated the effect of the non-ionic surfactant Pluronic F-68 at four concentrations (0.1%, 0.25%, 0.5%, and 1% (w/v)) on the responsiveness of recalcitrant B. napus lines to tissue culture. Microspores from seven populations of B. napus were cultured on Nitsch and Nitsch medium with this compound. The embryos obtained were plated on solid B5 medium supplemented with zeatin for shoot induction. Pluronic F-68 had a highly significant effect on the proportion of shoot regeneration (P<0.05) in some of the recalcitrant populations. However, no strong dose-response effect was observed. The estimated probability of a shoot occurring in the absence of Pluronic F-68 ranged from 0.04 to 0.31 depending on the genotype, while in the presence of Pluronic F-68, it ranged from 0.07 to 0.53, respectively.
4293089|Protoplasts were isolated from leaves of Betula platyphylla var. japonica using a 0.6 M mannitol solution containing 1% Cellulase Onozuka R-10 and 1% Driselase. The cell division and colony formation were largely enhanced using Murashige and Skoog (1962) liquid medium at half strength (1/2 MS), containing 0.6 M mannitol, 0.09 M sucrose, and factorial combinations of
20064893|In the synchronous embryogenesis system of sandalwood developed in our laboratory, we observed that the early events of differentiation from freshly induced callus (stage 0) are accomplished in three distinct stages viz., preglobular masses (stage 1), globular embryos (stage 2), and bipolar embryos (stage 3). Transition from stage 0 to 1 was accomplished using 2,4-D and involves a stage specific appearance of two polypeptides of 15 and 30 kDa molecular weight. A 24 kDa polypeptide that was detected as a marked band in extracts of primary callus was not detected in stages 1, 2, and 3. Further, the tissue level of a 50 kDa glycoprotein decreased during transition from stage 2 to stage 3. However, the levels of glycoproteins in the medium were markedly higher in stage 0 cultures compared to those in stage 1. The activities of a protein kinase, glycosidase, and xylanase increased markedly with progressing embryogenesis. Our observations suggest that in addition to being controlled at the level of stage-specific gene expression, somatic embryogenesis in sandalwood is also regulated at the level of controls on cell wall flexibility and posttranslational changes in the pool of preexisting proteins.
4292953|An anatomical study was carried out during the sequences of events which lead to the differentiation of secondary embryos of Camellia reticulata cv 'Mouchang'. Secondary embryogenesis can be induced by culturing somatic embryos on a modified Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with
20065004|The objective of this study was to evaluate the ability of Hosta Golden Scepter (GS) ovary explants to generate adventitious shoots in vitro. Ovaries were transversely cut into halves and transferred to petri dishes containing Hosta initiation medium supplemented with naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) at 2.5 M and N-benzyladenine (BA) at 10 M. GS produced adventitious shoots from the ovary base via organogenesis. The number of adventitious shoots regenerated from callus increased linearly with repeated subculturing on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2.5 M NAA and 10 M BA. The number of multiple shoots developing from callus (15.8), shoot tip (8.4), leaf (6.7), and root (4.3) occurred on MS medium supplemented with 2.5 M NAA and 20-30 M BA. There were significant differences in the number of shoots regenerated from shoot tips and callus on MS medium with 50 and 100 mg myo-inositol per 1. Similarly, there were significant differences in the number of axillary shoots and adventitious shoots produced with 20 g/l sucrose treatment.
40981332|Gynura bicolor DC., a traditional vegetable in Japan, is cultivated as Kinjisou and Suizenjina in Ishikawa and Kumamoto prefectures, respectively. The adaxial side of the leaves of G. bicolor grown in a field is green, and the abaxial side is reddish purple. It has been reported that these reddish purple pigments are anthocyanins. Although we established a culture system of G. bicolor, the leaves of G. bicolor plants grown under our culture conditions showed green color on both sides of all leaves. We investigated the effects of phytohormones and chemical treatments on anthocyanin accumulation in cultured plants. Although anthocyanin accumulation in the leaves was slightly stimulated, anthocyanins accumulation in the roots of the cultured plant was induced remarkably by 25-50 M methyl jasmonate (MJ) treatment. This induction was affected by light irradiation and sucrose concentration in the culture medium. However, salicylic acid (SA) and 1-aminocyclopropane-l-carboxylic acid did not induce anthocyanin accumulation in roots. And then, combinations of MJ and SA or MJ and AgNO did not stimulate the anthocyanin accumulation in the root as found in the case of treatment by MJ solely.
4293335|The production of whole plants from explants of protein pea (Pisum sativum L.) using an efficient, reliable and rapid strategy, while maintaining trueness to type, will be required before regeneration can be exploited for genetic transformation. Seeds of the pea genotypes Terese, Solara, Frisson and P64 (a hypernodulating mutant line of Frisson) were surface-sterilized and imbibed overnight, whereafter embryo axes were dissected and germinated on hormone-free medium for 7-10 d. Hypocotyl sections lacking pre-existing meristems were harvested and cultured on a range of media with various concentrations and combinations of growth regulators in order to induce either caulogenesis or somatic embryogenesis. Differences in responsiveness were apparent between genotypes, but regeneration via caulogenesis was consistently more reliable than via the induction of somatic embryos. Few Explants underwent somatic embryo production and their conversion into plants has remained elusive so far, irrespective of the genotype studied. Conversely, large numbers of buds were produced within 10 d by organogenesis, and healthy, rootable shoots were obtained. A clear relationship was observed between the growth regulators employed for bud regeneration and shoot rooting phases and the subsequent competence of the regenerated plants for flowering, pod formation and viable seed production.
4293519|An in vitro method was developed for high-frequency shoot regeneration and continuous production of rapid-cycling B. oleracea in large numbers. The high regenerative capacity was tissue-dependent. Developmental polarity (apical and basal ends) of the explants appeared to play a regulatory role in shoot morphogenesis in this system. High-frequency shoot regeneration was obtained with
4293890|Embryonal-suspensor mass (ESM) lines characterized by a spiky morphotype (i.e., developed early embryos escaping from the ESM periphery) were recently shown to produce the best maturation yields in Maritime pine. How to select or preserve such a valuable morphotype during ESM maintenance (prior to maturation treatment) is still unknown. Several maintenance procedures were tested; 2400 ESM from 10 lines were subcultured each 7 or 14 d on maltose- or sucrose-containing medium without plant growth regulator (PGR) or supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 6-benzylaminopurine or a low concentration of abscisic acid. Multiple components analyses based on growth rate, macromorphology data, and micromorphology data, collected for 6 mo., allowed for the association of the spiky morphotype with additional traits (defining the phenotype I) such as whitish aspect, high vigor, high growth rate, and complex cellular organization (resulting from high early embryogenic ability). Since a gradual increase in growth rate as well as a decrease in cellular organization were concomitantly observed during the 6 mo. experiment, we concluded that ESM growth and early somatic embryo development were disconnected. In some lines, the progressive loss of early embryogenic ability (aging process) could be decreased using maltose-based and PGR-free medium. For most lines, the aging effect was minimized using a weekly subculture. An improved procedure for ESM maintenance prior to the maturation step is thus proposed.
4292930| The cell wall regeneration on protoplasts derived from maize mesophyll cells was compared with wall regeneration on protoplasts derived from suspension cultured cells using light microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, and mass spectrometry. The time course of cell wall regeneration has shown that the mesophyll protoplasts regenerated walls much slower than the protoplasts derived from cultured cells. Moreover, cell wall materials on the mesophyll protoplasts were often unevenly distributed. Electron microscopy has further demonstrated that the mesophyll protoplasts have less organized and compact walls than the protoplasts from cultured cells. Chemical analysis revealed that the mesophyll protoplasts had a lower ratio of -(l-3)-glucan to -(l-4)-glucan than protoplasts from cultured cells. The significance of these results for the viability and development of protoplasts in culture is discussed. 
41318718|An in vitro bioassay to differentiate pineapple plant resistance levels to Phytophthora nicotianae var. parasitica (heart rot disease) is described here. Conditions to cause death of in viiro-cultured plants were defined using a cultivar previously found to be susceptible to this fungus in our Field-Grown Pineapple Germplasm Bank (cv. Smooth Cayenne Serrana). The effects of zoospore concentration, inoculation technique, and disease progress during the course of time after infection were evaluated. The highest rates of plant death were observed with the use of 10 zoospores m1 , and the inoculation technique of needle-mediated leaf base wound. One hundred percent plant death was observed at 144 h after infection. Different susceptible varieties along with a resistant pineapple relative were additionally compared. In vitro results confirmed previous observations obtained under field conditions. The protocol described here may be used for early selection (in vitro ) of new pineapple genotypes showing resistance to this fungus. At present, this protocol is extensively used in the Biotechnology-assisted Cuban Program for Pineapple Breeding.
20064913|The effects of abscisic acid (ABA) (0, 0.09 M, 0.19 M, 0.28 M, and 0.38 M) or ancymidol (0, 0.98 M, 1.95 M, 2.93 M, 3.90 M) in embryo germination medium on the conversion of primary embryos to plantlets and secondary embryogenesis were evaluated for asparagus. ABA and ancymidol each significantly enhanced both responses. ABA was more effective than ancymidol in promoting the conversion of primary embryos to plantlets, while the converse was true for the production of secondary embryos. The most effective treatments for embryo conversion were 0.19 and 0.28 M ABA; 75-77% bipolar and 55-57% globular embryos converted to plantlets. For secondary embryogenesis, the most effective treatments were 1.95 and 2.93 M ancymidol; 99-101 and 84-86 somatic embryos were produced from 10 globular and 10 bipolar embryos, respectively. Bipolar embryos generally converted to plantlets better than globular embryos, but more secondary embryos were produced from globular embryos than from bipolar embryos in all treatments. ABA and ancymidol also affected the morphology of the plantlets produced. The plantlets from the embryos incubated on the medium with ancymidol had strong and thick shoots and roots, while those on the medium with ABA had long, thin shoots and short, thin roots.
4293524|NADPH-cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase (CPR, EC 1.6.2.4) is the redox partner of classical P450-monooxygenases, which have crucial roles in the metabolism of terpenes, alkaloids, flavonoids, phytoalexins, etc. It becomes evident that, contrary to animals and yeast, various CPR isoforms occur in some plants, although their specific physiological functions are largely unknown. C. roseus-CPK has been reported as encoded by a single gene and early papers concerning the C. roseus-CPR protein also reported a single CPR polypeptide. The observation of diverse CPRs during purification or by immunoblot were attributed to proteolytic degradation. We obtained CPR immunotype of C. roseus roots using two heterologous antisera directed against the CPR from Sorghum bicolor and Helianthus tuberosus, respectively. Both antisera developed the same immunogenic profile with two cross-reactive polypeptides. Further evaluation of anti-H. tuberosus CPR serum excluded non-specific binding of antiserum with C. roseus microsomal proteins. The two immuno-reactive polypeptides are probably not the result of proteolytic degradation, since increasing protease inhibitor concentration during the extraction and manipulation of the samples did not affect the occurrence of these two CPR forms. Roots from plants growing in the field showed identical CPR immunotypes with those seen in vitro, indicating that this immunoprofile actually belongs to C. roseus roots. The lectin concanavalin A was able to inhibit the CPR activity from C. roseus hairy roots; therefore, the immuno-reactive polypeptides probably result from post-translational glycosylation of the original polypeptide. Not only the roots, but also the flowers, leaves and the stem showed more than a single CPR form. The different tissues of the plant showed different immuno-reactive bands, which were reproducible even though they came from tissues of plants growing in the field. This opens the possibility of the occurrence of diverse tissue-specific CPRs.
4293078|Eucalyptus camaldulensis shoots were cultured photoautotrophically in vitro for 6 wk with four different types of supporting materials (agar matrix, Gelrite matrix, plastic net, or vermiculite) under
20064902|Production of transgenic maize (Zea mays L.) callus, plants, and progeny from microprojectile bombardment of 2-5-d cultured Hi-II immature embryos is described. Histological evidence indicates that these tissues are amenable to transformation due to surface layer cell division of the scutellum. Two out of every 100 bombarded embryos produced transgenic callus and R transgenic plants were both male and female fertile. Expected segregation of transgenes was observed in progeny. The primary advantage of bombarding these tissues is increased male and female fertility of transgenic plants compared with those produced using long-term callus or suspension cultures.
4293074| In the genus Musa, germination is extremely variable and relatively difficult. Even more difficulties are faced when producing hybrids. The seed yield of hybrids in breeding programs is usually low and often, to ensure the viability and survival of seeds, it is necessary to attempt to germinate a large excess of these seeds. In this context, in vitro embryo culture might be an invaluable tool for obtaining desirable hybrid plants in a short time. Seeds of Musa velutina were sown in seed trays in a peat-based mixture. The in vivo seed germination reached 78% but only after 9 mo. Because of this delayed and intermittent germination, embryos were excised from seeds and inoculated onto half-strength Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium, with or without supplementation with various concentrations of gibberellic acid. Light and dark conditions were also used to test their effect on embryo germination. After 2 wk, 82% of embryos germinated in the dark on medium containing 0.1 M gibberellic acid. Addition of gibberellic acid increased the shoot length and root number over the gibberellic acid-free treatment. Similarly, dark conditions gave a significant increase over light conditions for all the parameters except root number where light or dark conditions did not make any difference. Thus, the present study highlights the importance of various components of the in vitro culture of Musa embryos and the advantage over direct use of greenhouse-sown seeds both in terms of the time taken to germinate and the final percentage. 
20064975|Micropropagated Rosa hybrida plantlets were simultaneously rooted and acclimatized under 100 and
20171621| Culture media, environmental and genotypic factors affecting regeneration from multi-shoot cultures derived from corn seedling apical explants were investigated. The frequency of shoot regeneration was highest for seedlings that were 4-5 cm in length. Flow cytometry was used to show that the most responsive cultures contained a high proportion of cells in the G1 phase. Proline in the multi-shoot induction medium (MSI) significantly increased the shoot induction frequency. Continuous low light (30-40 E m s) stimulated multi-shoot induction. The highest number of multi-shoots developed in medium containing 4 gl proline, 2 mg l (8.8 M) 6-benzylaminopurine (BA), and 1 mg l (4.5 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Multi-shoots were induced in this culture system from 44 of 45 corn genotypes and approximately 70% of the genotypes exhibited a high to moderate response (greater than 20 shoots per explant in 4 wk of culture). This culture procedure is an efficient and widely applicable method for corn regeneration that may be a useful target for transformation. 
29736213|A regeneration and transformation system has been developed using organogenic calluses derived from soybean axillary nodes as the starting explants. Leaf-node or cotyledonary-node explants were prepared from 7 to 8-d-old seedlings. Callus was induced on medium containing either Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts or modified Finer and Nagasawa (FNL) salts and B5 vitamins with various concentrations of benzylamino purine (BA) and thidiazuron (TDZ). The combination of BA and TDZ had a synergistic effect on callus induction. Shoot differentiation from the callus occurred once the callus was transferred to medium containing a low concentration of BA. Subsequently, shoots were elongated on medium containing indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), zeatin riboside, and gibberellic acid (GA). Plant regeneration from callus occurred 90~120 d after the callus was cultured on shoot induction medium. Both the primary callus and the proliferated callus were used as explants for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The calluses were inoculated with A. tumefaciens harboring a binary vector with the bar gene as the selectable marker gene and the gusINT gene for GUS expression. Usually 60-100% of the callus showed transient GUS expression 5 d after inoculation. Infected calluses were then selected on media amended with various concentrations of glufosinate. Transgenic soybean plants have been regenerated and established in the green-house. GUS expression was exhibited in various tissues and plant organs, including leaf, stem, and roots. Southern and T plant segregation analysis of transgenic events showed that transgenes were integrated into the soybean genome with a copy number ranging from 1-5 copies.
20541021|Anther culture is a biotechnology technique that can be used for the production of pure lines. The aims of this investigation were to induce embryogenic callus from major and minor culms of Thai aromatic rice cultivars and to subsequently regenerate double-haploid green plantlets by the application of exogenous polyamines. Embryogenic callus derived from anther culture was successfully induced in varieties KDML105, Homjan (HJ), and Pathumthani 1 (PT1). Production of embryogenic callus from anthers collected from the major culms was greater than those collected from the minor culms, especially in cultivar HJ. Plantlet regeneration in the three rice cultivars was observed from embryogenic callus and was highest, at 12.1%, from variety HJ treated with 0.5 mM spermidine. Plantlet regeneration from anther-derived embryogenic callus was dependent on the plant genotype, the types of exogenous polyamines, and the interactions of these factors. The percentage of haploid plantlets regenerated in PT1, KDML105, and HJ were 68.1%, 70.7%, and 78.5%, respectively. Only haploid plantlets were treated with colchicine for double-haploid production. This investigation has increased the knowledge of both embryogenic callus induction and plantlet regeneration in aromatic rice and has lead to the development of a pure, double-haploid line for the use in rice breeding programs in Thailand.
29736167|Conventional breeding methods have not been very successful in producing pest-resistant genotypes of pigeonpea, due to the limited genetic variation in cultivated germplasm. We have developed an efficient method to produce transgenic plants of pigeonpea by incorporating the cry1Ab gene of Bacillus thuringiensis through Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated genetic transformation. The novel tissue culture protocol is based on the direct regeneration of adventitious shoot buds in the axillary bud region of in vitro germinating seedlings by suppressing the axillary and primary shoot buds on a medium containing a high concentration of N -benzyladenine (22.0 M). The tissue with potential to produce adventitious shoot buds can be explanted and used for co-cultivation with A. tumefaciens carrying the synthetic cry1Ab on a binary vector and driven by a CaMV 35S promoter. Following this protocol, over 75 independently transformed transgenic events of pigeonpea were produced and advanced to T2 generation. Amongst the recovered primary putative transformation events, 60% showed positive gene integration based on initial polymerase chain reaction (PCR) screening. PCR analysis of the progenies from independent transformants followed gene inheritance in a Mendelian ratio and 65% of the transformants showed the presence of single-copy inserts of the introduced genes. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that the transcripts of the introduced genes were normally transcribed and resulted in the expression of Cry1Ab protein in the tested T2 generation plants. Interestingly, the content of Cry1Ab protein as a percent of total soluble protein varied in different tissues of the whole plant, showing the highest expression in flowers (0.1%) and least in the leaves (0.025%) as estimated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The transgenic plants produced in this study offer immense potential for the improvement of this important legume of the semi-arid tropics for resistance to insect pests.
4293782|In the present work, histological changes observed at the base of Eucalyptus globulus shoots in in vitro culture are described. Shoots were placed on solidified Murashige and Skoog medium containing half the original salt concentration, the complete vitamin composition,
42568801|Here, we report a widely applicable procedure for direct shoot regeneration via basal leaf segments of Lilium. Leaf segments (0.8-1.0 cm long and 0.4 cm wide) were excised from leaves on shoot nodes 3 to 6 of 4-wk-old in vitro stock shoot cultures. The segments were wounded by three transverse cuts across the midvein on the abaxial side, with 1 mm between cuts, and cultured with the abaxial side in contact with a shoot regeneration medium composed of halfstrength Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 1 mg/1 naphthaleneacetic acid, 0.5 mg/1 thidiazuron, 30 g/1 sucrose, and 7 g/1 agar (pH5.8). The cultures were incubated for 4 wk under a 16-h photoperiod at 232C for adventitious shoot regeneration. With this procedure, a mean shoot regeneration frequency of 92-100% and mean number of shoots of 4.7-7.0 per segment were obtained in five Lilium species and hybrids, which represent diverse genotypes of Lilium and are commercially popular lilies. Histological studies with Lilium Oriental hybrid "Siberia" revealed that meristemoids initiated from subepidermal cells on the adaxial side of the expiant and eventually developed into adventitious buds, without callus formation. In an assessment of genetic stability in the regenerants of "Siberia", no polymorphic bands were detected by intersimple sequence repeat and only 0.73% polymorphic bands were detected by amplified fragment length polymorphism. The morphologies of the regenerants were identical to those of the control. These results demonstrated that the regenerants were genetically and morphological stable. Thus, this procedure has great potential application for micropropagation, genetic transformation, and preparation of shoot tips for cryopreservation and cryotherapy for virus eradication of Lilium.
20541036|Since 2007, the overall rise in food prices in the USA was twice that of the overall inflation rate, led by inflation for poultry and dairy products in particular. Prominent studies have indicated that the main drivers associated with the rise in food prices in the past 3 yr are the increased energy costs (and the trickle-down impact on farm input costs) and the devaluation of the US dollar. However, currently, the impact of crude oil as one of the primary drivers in food prices has waned significantly, as crude oil prices have fallen dramatically since late 2008. The data reviewed here debunk the popular myth that food producers, particularly farmers growing corn or soybean for biofuel feedstocks, are making huge profits with high commodity prices. Producers continue to face extraordinary risks in their farming operations, and profit margins have narrowed considerably because of the high input prices driven by high energy costs. One of the primary solutions to the food price inflation is to increase the supply of commodity crops in a responsible way that is both respectful and sustainable regarding economic, social, and environmental aspects. At the center of this solution is implementing and developing new technologies to increase crop yields and nutritional values without increasing the amount of fossil-based inputs used in agriculture. Conventional breeding, molecular breeding, genomics, and biotechnology are pivotal technologies for increasing crop yields to meet these supply needs, combined with the impacts of other new technologies and best management practices in agricultural production.
25623012|In vitro axillary shoot proliferation was achieved from single-node explants of Indigofera tinctoria on a well-defined medium, Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 1.0 mg 1 N-benzyl adenine (BA) and 0.1 mg 1 indole-3-acetic acid. Axillary shoot meristems from cultures derived from up to three subcultures were used in the encapsulationdehydration technique. Preconditioned, calcium alginate-encapsulated, and precultured axillary shoot meristems were subjected to different lengths of desiccation in a laminar flow cabinet. Maximum survival and regeneration rates of 56.7% and 62.2%, respectively, were obtained in half-strength (half the macro- and micronutrients and full-strength vitamins) MS medium supplemented with 0.5 mg 1 gibberellic acid and 0.2 mg 1 BA after 4 h of desiccation, during which the moisture content was reduced to 16.0%. According to the analysis of six random amplified polymorphic DNA markers, plantlets derived from cultures initiated with cryopreserved plant material were genetically identical to those derived from nonfrozen (control) tissues.
41496436|Plant regeneration was obtained from cultured anthers and hypocotyl segments of caraway (Carum carvi L.). Microspore-and somatic tissue-derived embryos were compared by observation of the regeneration process under identical induction conditions. Fluorescent microscopy with DAPI staining showed initiation of cell divisions and formation of embryogenie callus and somatic embryos from anther sacs, with production of embryos of both microspore and somatic origin. Induction of somatic embryos from hypocoty1-derived callus was also demonstrated. Isozyme native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was used to identify haploids and doubled haploids, and to determine the frequency of spontaneous diploidization of regenerated plants of microspore origin. Donor plants (2n= 20) and their anther-derived derivative plants (n= 10, 2n= 20, 4n = 40) in callus stage or leafy rosette stage were compared. The esterase (EST) band patterns of regenerated plants differed from the heterozygous parental material, suggesting that the regenerated plants were microsporederived haploid/doubled haploid plants. The similar profile of EST bands between the diploid anther-derived plants and a sample of the donor plants corresponded to a somatic regeneration pathway. Although the selected induction conditions revealed no preference for induction of microspore embryogenesis, the anther culture protocol established for caraway utilizing isozyme segregating EST loci markers is suitable for DH production.
24596332|L-ascorbic acid (vitamin C) is an abundant metabolite in plant cells and tissues. Ascorbate functions as an antioxidant, as an enzyme cofactor, and plays essential roles in multiple physiological processes including photosynthesis, photoprotection, control of cell cycle and cell elongation, and modulation of flowering time, gene regulation, and senescence. The importance of this key molecule in regulating whole plant morphology, cell structure, and plant development has been clearly established via characterization of low vitamin C mutants of Arabidopsis, potato, tobacco, tomato, and rice. However, the consequences of elevating ascorbate content in plant growth and development are poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that Arabidopsis lines overexpressing a myo-inositol oxygenase or an L-gulono- 1,4-lactone oxidase, containing elevated ascorbate, display enhanced growth and biomass accumulation of both aerial and root tissues. To our knowledge, this is the first study demonstrating such a marked positive effect in plant growth in lines engineered to contain elevated vitamin C content. In addition, we present evidence showing that these lines are tolerant to a wide range of abiotic stresses including salt, cold, and heat. Total ascorbate content of the transgenic lines remained higher than those of controls under the abiotic stresses tested. Interestingly, exposure to pyrene, a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon and known inducer of oxidative stress in plants, leads to stunted growth of the aerial tissue, reduction in the number of root hairs, and inhibition of leaf expansion in wild type plants, while these symptoms are less severe in the overexpressers. Our results indicate the potential of this metabolic engineering strategy to develop crops with enhanced biomass, abiotic stress tolerance, and phytoremediation capabilities.
4293771|Genetic transformation provides the means for modifying single horticultural traits in perennial plant cultivars without altering their phenotype. This capability is particularly valuable for perennial plants and tree species in which development of new cultivars is often hampered by their long generation time, high levels of heterozygosity, nucellar embryony, etc. Most of these conditions apply to many tropical and subtropical fruit crops. Targeting specific gene traits is predicated upon the ability to regenerate elite selections of what are generally trees from cell and tissue cultures. The integrity of the clone would thereby remain unchanged except for the altered trait. This review provides an overview of the genetic transformation of perennial tropical and subtropical fruit crops, i.e., citrus (Citrus spp.), banana and plantain (Musa groups AAA, AAB, ABB, etc.), mango (Mangifera indica L.), pineapple (Ananas comosus L.), avocado (Persea americana Mill.), passion fruit (Passiflora edulis L.), longan (Dimocarpus longan Lour.), and litchi (Litchi chinensis Sonn.).
20064829|Variations of composition and consistency of the culture medium and time of exposure to growth regulators wer assayed to optimize normal caulogenic response of Digitalis obscura hypocotyls cultured in vitro. The effects of the culture conditions on physiologic changes related to vitrification of the regenerated plants were also investigated. Liquid medium increased the bud-forming capacity of the explants but induced buds failed to develop into shoots and showed symptoms of vitrification. On agar-solidified media, maximum multiplication rates were achieved with 0.7% agar. Increasing agar concentration reduced vitrification but lowered the propagation rate. Changes in the strength of the macronutrients of Murashige and Skoog did not significantly affect the bud-forming capacity of the explants. In contrast, a drastic inhibitory effect on both bud formation and shoot elongation was produced when NHNO was omitted. Reduction of NHNO to one-half or one-fourth of the level of the original formulation not only increased the bud-forming capacity of D. obscura hypocotyls but also resulted in less vitrification. Modifications of time and method of exposure to growth regulators neither improved the multiplication rates nor overcame vitrification. Cardenolide content was lower in vitrified than in normal cultures and coincided with an overall reduction of photosynthetic pigments, lignin, and dry matter.
20461704|An efficient system was established for a higher frequency of protocorm-like body (PLB) formation from the callus of Dendrobium candidum Wall ex Lindl. The calluses were induced from longitudinally bisected segments of protocorms and subcultured two times every 40d on Murashige and Skoog medium with macronutrients at half strength, micronutrients at full strength, 2% sucrose, and with 8.8M 6-Benzylaminopurine. PLB formation was achieved when calluses were transferred onto the same basal medium without any plant growth regulators. PLBs developed into intact plantlets about 2cm in height and with four roots when on basal medium with 2.7M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid. Plantlets were transplanted into vermiculite with a 95% survival rate in a greenhouse. Histological observations proved that globular somatic embryos could be produced from the inside and surface of the embryogenic callus during PLB formation.
4293795|A novel protocol has been developed for inducing somatic embryogenesis from leaf cultures of Decalepis hamiltonii. Callus was obtained from leaf sections in Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with
29736179|Plant-based medicines have an important role in the lives of millions of people. The ancient knowledge of the use of plants as medicines has led to the discovery of many important western pharmaceuticals, and the popularity of whole plant preparations for a range of therapeutic applications is growing rapidly. However, there are many challenges in the production of plant-based medicines, many of which put both the consumer and the plant populations at risk. Modern biotechnology can be optimized to massproduce plants of specific chemical composition for use as particular treatments and applications. In this review, we have used one of the most important medicinal plant genera, Scutellaria, as a model to assess the potential of applications of biotechnology for the improvement of medicinal plants.
4292994|A fully habituated nonorganogenic (HNO) sugarbeet callus line, compared to a normal (hormone dependent) one originated from the same plant exhibits many characteristics of a vitrified tissue and several traits common to animal cancer cells. Four types of biochemical or metabolic characteristics of HNO callus [deficiency of tetrapyrrole-containing compounds; lipid (per)oxidation and malondialdehyde formation; high activity of enzyme protective systems; proline, glutamate, and polyamine accumulation] may be interpreted as responses to stress. The deficiency of tetrapyrrole-containing compounds can be considered an indirect protection against activated forms of oxygen as well as the higher activity of the antioxidant defense mechanisms. This fits with suggestions in the literature that the autonomy associated with plant cancer tissue is explained on the basis of antioxidants as stimulators of cell division and corresponding inhibitors of cell differentiation. Such changes occurring in HNO cells may in turn be responsible for a greater absorption and sensitivity to ammonium ions. An altered nitrogen metabolism leads to proline, glutamate, and polyamine accumulation. Lipid peroxidation and malondialdehyde accumulation rapidly occur in this very sensitive HNO callus in a prolonged culture cycle, which might be related to the appearance of necrosis bands. Thus there are arguments allowing us to consider HNO cells as mutants adapted to some stresses, but resulting changes in their structure might have rendered them still more sensitive to other factors.
23255666|An in vitro continuous endosperm callus culture derived from developing endosperm of transformation-amenable maize Hi-II genotype was obtained. The endosperm callus was composed of cells that differentiated into aleurone-like and starchy endosperm-like cell types. This callus has been maintained for 4 yr. Endosperm callus cells transcribe and produce zein proteins at a level similar to developing endosperm tissue. Starchy endosperm cells of the endosperm callus displayed active starch biosynthetic activity. The dual cell physiology of this culture limited the utility of the cell line for promoter analysis and transient assays of gene expression in the current culture conditions. However, because such cell line can be readily initiated and easily maintained for a long period of time, it provides an alternative tool for analysis of transgene expression in endosperm callus derived from transgenic maize lines in Hi-II background.
4293660|Lilium Asiatic hybrid 'Mona' bulblets were cultured in vitro for 100 d under photoautotrophic (
4293004|Plants and certain fungi respond to heavy metal toxicity with the induced synthesis of metal-binding peptides known as phytochelatins (PCs). With cadmium, PCs can bind the metal to form a low molecular weight PC-Cd complex and a high molecular weight
4293844|Current methods for creating transgenic varieties are labor and time intensive, comprised of the generation of hundreds of plants with random DNA insertions, screening for the few individuals with appropriate transgene expression and simple integration structure, and followed by a lengthy breeding process to introgress the engineered trait into cultivated varieties. Various modifications of existing methods have been proposed to speed up the different steps involved in plant transformation, as well as a few add-on technologies that seek to address issues related to biosafety or intellectual property. The problem with an assortment of independently developed improvements is that they do not integrate seamlessly into a single transformation system. This paper presents an integrated strategy for plant transformation, where the introduced DNA will be inserted precisely into the genome, the transgenic locus will be introgressed rapidly into field varieties, the extraneous transgenic DNA will be removed, the transgenic plants will be molecularly tagged, and the transgenic locus may be excised from pollen and/or seed.
4293122| Phytagel allowed the production of longer internodes, faster in vitro tuberization, and larger tubers in Solanum tuberosum L. cv. Baraka as compared to Difco Bacto-agar during both an 8-h photoperiod or in darkness. It also allowed a higher tuberization percentage in the dark. Only a 0.2% (wt/vol) Phytagel allowed optimal micropropagation and microtuberization under the photoperiod regime used. Water availability does not account for the observed differences in growth and tuberization between media containing the above gelling agents. In consequence, Phytagel appears as an advantageous alternative to agar for micropropagation and microtuberization. 
4293642|Isolation of zygotic embryos from seeds and their culture in a defined medium, initiated by Hannig in 1904, has proved to be a promising method to study the factors that control growth and differentiation of embryos. Using this technique, several investigations have focused on the carbohydrate and nitrogen nutrition during germination of cultured seed embryos and on the effects of plant hormones on their morphogenesis. Culture of immature embryos leads to their germination into weak seedlings, skipping the later stages of embryogenesis, by a process known as precocious germination. Progressively smaller embryos have been cultured by supplementation of the medium with coconut milk or hormonal additives or by osmotic adjustment of the medium by high concentrations of sucrose or mannitol. Although methods have not been developed for large-scale isolation and culture of zygotes, zygotes of maize isolated from embryo sacs and those obtained by in vitro fertilization have been grown in culture into full-term embryos. Embryo culture techniques are widely used to rescue embryos from seeds of wide crosses which usually abort and to overcome dormancy of recalcitrant seeds.
4292936|Over the past few years, techniques of cell biology, genetic screening, and gene manipulation have been developed to the extent that their impact on commercial development of improved plant varieties is predicted to have a measurable impact on agriculture by the year 2000 and beyond. A review will be given of progress that has been made in each of these areas toward the manipulation of crop plants for improved field performance and product quality. There are now several opportunities in which these techniques can be employed for the improvement of forestry species. In the light of the long-time scales involved in the generation of forestry products, it is important to focus on targets that are worthwhile pursuing commercially using appropriate technical routes. Selected examples will be given of the application of plant biotechnology techniques that promise potentially significant improvements for forestry species.
20461540|The purpose of this study was to develop an efficient micropropagation system for Mucuna pruriens, an important medicinal plant in India. A range of cytokinins was investigated for multiple shoot regeneration with cotyledonary node explants from 7-d-old aseptic seedlings. Of all the cytokinins, 6-benzyladenine (BA), kinetin (KIN) and 2-isopentenyl adenine (2-iP) tested in Murashige and Skoog medium (MS), BA was the most effective and 5.0 M was found to be optimum for inducing maximum shoots. Medium types, medium strength and pH were also investigated for induction and proliferation of shoots. The highest efficiency of shoot proliferation was observed in 5.0 M BA and 0.5 M -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) in half-strength MS medium at pH 5.8. The best condition for rooting was half-strength MS medium solidified with agar and with 2.0 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). After rooting, the plantlets were transferred to plastic pots filled with sterile soilrite where 90% grew and all exhibited normal development.
41496449|With the current trends in high density plantations of fruit trees, numerous clonal rootstocks of apple have been developed through various breeding programs. Among them, Merton 793 is the most popular in India because of the desirable traits of vigorous growth and resistance to woolly apple aphid and collar rot. The planting material of this rootstock cannot be multiplied at a desirable rate by means of conventional vegetative propagation methods, so micropropagation techniques are being explored to augment scarce planting material. Large number of plants can be produced in vitro under aseptic conditions, but there is always a danger of producing somaclonal variants by tissue culture technology. Thus, it is advisable to check the clonal fidelity of in vitro raised plants, especially of perennials prior to their field transplantation. The genetic stability of in vitro raised plants of apple rootstock Merton 793, multiplied through enhanced axillary bud proliferation up to 22 subculture passages, was tested by intersimple sequence repeat (ISSR) assay. Of 24 ISSR primers screened, 15 primers produced clear reproducible bands, resulting in a total of 134 distinct bands with an average of 8.9 bands per primer. Apple rootstock MM 111 and scion Jonathan, taken as outliers with tissue culture-raised progenies of Merton 793, ruled out the possibility that the invariant banding pattern occurred because of inefficiency of ISSR primers in detecting variations. The homogenous amplification profile observed for all the micropropagated plants compared to the donor plant confirmed the clonal fidelity of the tissue culture-raised Merton 793 plants. This suggests that axillary bud multiplication is the safest mode for multiplication of true-to-type plants. This is the first study that evaluates the applicability of ISSR markers in establishing clonal fidelity of tissue culture-raised apple plants.
20461706|In this study, we aimed to maximize the rates of somatic embryogenesis achievable in anther cultures of Chinese pink (Dianthus chinensis L.) (2n=2x=30). The genotype of the donor plant was found to be a major factor in determining the success rate. Conditions imposed during anther culture (notably medium composition and light conditions) and pretreatments (namely, cold, heat, and mannitol incubations) were also found to influence somatic embryo induction. For example, the highest levels of embryogenic callus induction were achieved when the donor buds had been cold pretreated and the subsequent anther culture was maintained in darkness. Furthermore, there appeared to be an interaction of genotype with culture conditions. Thus, in cultures of the cultivar (cv.) 'Carpet', the highest rates of embryogenesis were obtained when the anthers had received a 5-d heat-shock, but such a thermal treatment did not generally produce a significant effect. Likewise, a 3-d mannitol pretreatment was optimal only for the cross-hybrid line 'HC'. Assessment of the ploidy of the plants regenerated from the anther cultures revealed both diploid and tetraploid plants. Histological and cytological observations showed that all of these (both from n-pollen and 2n-pollen lines) derived from anther wall cells. Spontaneous chromosome doubling was inferred to have occurred during the embryogenic callus culture period.
4293261| Protocols and media constituents for efficient in vitro plant regeneration of Native Spearmint (Mentha spicata L. cultivar 'Native Spearmint') have been defined. Adventitious shoots were initiated either directly from morphogenetically competent cells of explants or primary callus. Leaf explants from at least 2-mo.-old in vitro-maintained shoots exhibited the greatest morphogenetic capacity. Explants derived from basal portions of leaves at the bottom of the shoot were most responsive, with up to a 100% regeneration frequency and greater than nine shoots per explant. Highest frequency of meristemoids and morphogenetic callus were initiated from explants cultured onto a basal medium containing Murashige and Skoog (MS) salts, supplemented with 4 mg thidiazuron (TDZ) per L and 25% (vol/vol) coconut water (CW) for 10 to 14 d in darkness. Bud and shoot development required removal of both TDZ and CW from the medium. Shoot propagules were transferred to basal medium supplemented with 0.01 mg -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) per L and grown under low light for about 2 wk to facilitate shoot elongation. Individual shoots about 1 cm tall were dissected and retransferred onto the same medium. Root initiation began within 4 to 6 d and a functional root system developed within 2 to 3 wk. These plantlets were transferred to soil and acclimated successfully for growth and development in a greenhouse. This is the first report of an efficient regeneration system for Native Spearmint based on adventitious organogenesis. 
41496433|A non-tissue culture approach for the generation of transgenic Indian mustard (Brassica juncea) plants using Agrobacterium tumefaciens was developed. Inflorescences with floral buds were vacuum infiltrated with a suspension of A. tumefaciens strain EHA105 carrying a binary vector with an intron-containing -glucuronidase (GUS) gene (uidA) as a scorable marker and a neomycin phosphotransferase gene (nptll) as a selectable marker. The seeds of agro-infiltrated plants (T) were germinated on a medium containing 130 mg 1 kanamycin, and the seedlings that remained green were considered T transgenic plants. Histochemical GUS assays, PCR, Southern analysis, and RT-PCR confirmed that both transgenes were integrated into the genome of T plants and were stably transmitted and expressed for over three generations. The transformants were obtained within 3-4 mo at a transformation frequency of 0.8%. This method may facilitate functional genomics and improvement of Brassica with novel desirable traits and with less time and expense.
4293757|High-frequency embryogenesis systems were established for hybrid yellow-poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera x L. chinense) and hybrid sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua x L. formosana) by modifying a medium originally developed for embryogenic yellow-poplar cultures. Embryogenic cultures of both hybrids, consisting of proembryogenic masses (PEMs), were initiated from immature hybrid seeds on an induction-maintenance medium (IMM) supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), benzyladenine (BA), and casein hydrolyzate (CH). For hybrid yellow-poplar, as many as 2100 germinable somatic embryos per 4000 cells or cell clumps were produced when PEMs were grown in liquid IMM lacking CH, at a pH that varied with genotype (3.5 or 5.6), followed by size fractionation and plating on semisolid embryo development medium (DM; IMM lacking 2,4-D and BA) without CH, but supplemented with
23016586|Malaysia is fortunate and proud to contain some of the world's richest biodiversity. In Malaysia, there are an estimated 185,000 species of fauna and 12,500 species of flowering plants, many of which are endemic to tropical forests in this region. Indeed, such diversity is an important and invaluable national asset to safeguard both present and future generations. In vitro conservation offers possible techniques for the preservation of plant germplasm that at present is difficult to maintain or is maintained with limited success. Research at the Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia (The National University of Malaysia) focuses on the cryopreservation of woody fruit species with seeds that cannot tolerate cryopreservation (recalcitrant or intermediate). Among the plants with recalcitrant seeds are such traditionally important edible tropical fruits as mangosteen, langsat, and rambai (Garcinia mangostana, Lansium domesticum, and Baccaurea motleyana). Citrus aurantifolia, Citrus suhuiensis, Citrus madurensis, Citrus hystrix, and Fortunella polyandra are among the Citrus and Citrus-related species studied. Cryopreservation studies include the Nepenthes species (pitcher plants) of Malaysia. Fundamental research on desiccation and low-temperature tolerance and on the physiology of desiccation are used to understand seed behavior, a prerequisite for the development of successful conservation techniques. At the same time, cryopreservation protocols for several Citrus and forestry species were developed for embryonic axes and adventitious shoots, mainly using rapid dehydration and PVS2 vitrification techniques. There are no successful standard techniques or protocols for species with highly recalcitrant seeds such as Garcinia species. Modification of existing protocols or development of new methods is required, but this can be accomplished only when a detailed understanding of the recalcitrant nature of the seeds or explants is achieved. While we have considerable knowledge concerning the basics of biochemical processes and some molecular data from work on desiccation-tolerant seeds, a great need remains for understanding the cause of the recalcitrance or desiccation sensitivity of these seeds. It may be necessary to use a systems biology approach that exploits the "omics" technologies to generate global molecular data. In combination with bioinformatics for data integration and analyses, this approach would move toward improved modeling of the biological pathways associated with the development of recalcitrant seeds.
23016694|Cisgenic engineering involves isolation and modification of genetic elements from the host genome, which are reinserted to develop plant varieties with improved characteristics. As a first step toward production of fungal-disease resistant cisgenic grapevines, the Vitis vinifera thaumatin-like protein (vvtl-1) gene was isolated from "Chardonnay" and reengineered for constitutive expression. Embryogenic cultures of "Thompson Seedless" were initiated from leaves and transformed with Agrobacterium to regenerate cisgenic VVTL-1 plants. Cisgene presence and copy number were confirmed by PCR and quantitative real-time PCR. Protein expression was measured using ELISA. Among the plant lines tested, two exhibited a 710 day delay in powdery mildew disease development during greenhouse screening and decreased severity of black rot disease in field tests. Berries exhibited a 42.5% reduction in sour-bunch rot disease incidence compared to non-transformed controls after 3 wk of storage at room temperature. Although plants recovered in this study contain viral promoters and reporter/ marker genes, this is the first report of a cisgenic approach to obtain broad-spectrum fungal-disease resistance in genetically engineered grapevine.
23016585|Cryogenic storage techniques have been developed and adopted for more than 100 (mainly agricultural) plant species worldwide, and within Australia, at least 30 critically endangered plants have been stored long term using cryogenic approaches. Nevertheless, there are many species that are very difficult to store using current procedures, and organizations involved in plant germplasm conservation (such as botanic gardens, agricultural institutions, etc.) that utilise cryogenic storage techniques are in some respects at a crossroads in their endeavours to cheaply and effectively store a wide selection of species and genotypes for conservation and agricultural/horticultural purposes. For taxa that are not amenable to current cryogenic approaches, new ways of developing cryogenic storage techniques need to be investigated, including research into the ways in which cell membranes interact and change when cooled to cryogenic temperatures (-196C in liquid nitrogen) in the presence of various cryoprotective agents. This review highlights the current state of cryogenic research both within Australia and internationally, provides a case study on threatened plant species and also describes several new research initiatives that aim to provide answers to why some native species are quite amenable to widely utilised cryogenic approaches whilst others are currently non-responsive. New approaches aim to integrate laboratory and membrane modelling paradigms to provide guidelines for the development of new cryopreservation protocols and to assess the robustness of theoretical models in predicting optimum cryogenic conditions.
20461537|In an attempt to increase productivity, the effects of the elicitors methyl jasmonate (MJ) and salicylic acid (SA) on the production of bilobalide (B), ginkgolide A (GA), and ginkgolide B (GB) were studied in cell suspension cultures of Ginkgo biloba. MJ treatments increased the amounts of B, GA, and GB, concomitant with a slight decrease in cell growth. After treatment of 0.01 mM MJ, levels of GA and GB increased 4.3- and 8.2-fold over controls by 12 h and declined after 24 h. The 1.0 mM MJ treatment produced a maximal release of B after 12 h of exposure and increased the concentration of B in the culture medium up to 6.25-fold compared with the controls. Treatment with 1.0 mM SA transiently enhanced GA and GB production up to 3.1- and 6.1-fold, respectively, compared with the control. However, treatment 1.0 mM SA did not have a significant effect on B production. When treated with 0.01 mM SA, the level of B in the cells was increased 5.4-fold over controls by 12 h and declined after 24 h. The concentrations and exposure times of both MJ and SA were factors that strongly affected the production of B, GA, and GB. The results from this study suggest that MJ and SA directly or indirectly increased the production of B, GA, and GB in cells, and stimulated the release of these metabolites into the culture medium.
4293006|Phytoremediation, using plants to clean up toxic wastes, is an idea that is attracting increasing attention from scientists, remediation engineers, and environmental professionals in government, industry, and universities. In situ remediation using plants has the potential to be less expensive than current technologies and to simultaneously initiate both detoxification of hazardous waste and site restoration. The perennial habit, extensive root mass, and large transpirational rates give trees advantages over other plants for use in remediation. Trees are already used for waste water clean-up, for site stabilization, and as barriers to subsurface flow of contaminated groundwater. Clonal propagation and the genetic tools of both classical breeding and genetic engineering exist for a number of both angiosperm and gymnosperm species, opening the door to creation of tree "remediation" cultivars. Work is underway to screen tree species for their ability to tolerate, take up, translocate, sequester, and degrade organic compounds and heavy metal ions. Both an indirect approach to remediation, through enhancing rhizosphere degradation of pollutants by engineering larger root masses in trees using Agrobacterium rhizogenes, and a direct approach to remediation, through transformation of trees with bacterial genes known to initiate the mineralization of halogenated phenolic compounds and trichloroethylene are reviewed.
23326891|An efficient protocol for the in vitro micrpropagation of Saussurea involucrata Kar. et Kir, an endangered Chinese medicinal plant, was developed. Shoot organogenesis was obtained following culture of leaf explants on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with thidiazuron (TDZ). After 28 d of culture, 15.61.4 shoots were regenerated per leaf explant on MS medium containing 0.5 M TDZ. After transfer of shoots to a medium containing 5.0 M indole-3-acetic acid, approximately 80% of the regenerated shoots formed roots and whole plantlets. After transfer of rooted shoots to the greenhouse, 83% of the regenerated plantlets survived and grew vigorously. The regeneration protocol developed in this study provides a basis for germplasm conservation and for the production of plant material necessary to study the medicinally active components of S. involucrata.
4293103|Datura arborea and D. sanguinea hairy roots were produced by cocultivation of leaf fragments with Agrobacterium rhizogenes strain NCPP 1855. Adventitious buds emerged spontaneously, without exogenous growth regulators, from seven hairy root clones of D. arborea and from one hairy root clone of D. sanguinea. Regenerated plants were successfully acclimatized in the greenhouse. The integration of the bacterial TL-DNA into the genome of the putative transformed plants was confirmed by Southern blot analysis. Transgenic plants displayed increased ability to root in vivo. Morphological traits with relevant ornamental value like plant height, leaf number, size and shape, internode number, and internode length were also affected. Transformation by wild-type Ri TL-DNA provided the chance to study plant growth and differentiation and to select improved genotypes.
4293042|Proliferating axillary shoots of kiwifruit (Actinidia deliciosa A. Chev., C. F. Liang and A. R. Ferguson), var. deliciosa, cv. 'Hayward' were grown under solar (SL), white (WL), and blue (BL) light regimens to determine the accumulation of fresh and dry weight, proliferation rate, shoot growth (length), and the net leaf photosynthetic capacity at the CO
4293745|Chinese leymus is a perennial grass in the Gramineae family, which is widely distributed in Northern China and Mongolia. The breeding cycle in Chinese leymus is time-consuming because of its high level of seed dormancy. To improve the breeding process, we established a simple technique that shortens the breeding cycle by culturing immature embryos in vitro to produce plantlets immediately. This technique can potentially save 1 yr in each sexual breeding cycle. Factors affecting germination of immature embryos were evaluated. Immature embryos at different developmental stages were cultured on Murashige and Skoog basic medium. The immature embryos collected 11-16 d after pollination expressed the maximum germination rate (100%), but the maximum efficiency of recovery was observed at 15-16d after pollination. The germination time of embryos increased and length of the germinated shoots decreased as the age of the embryos increased. All plantlets survived transplantation to the field. Two generations were obtained within 2yr starting from immature embryo cultures, as compared to one generation using conventional breeding techniques.
20461657|We have evaluated the effects of the antibiotic hygromycin B on cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) callus induction, callus proliferation, and seed germination. Nontransgenic cotyledon and hypocotyl showed obvious variance in tolerance to hygromycin. Cotyledons were more sensitive to hygromycin than hypocotyls. Hygromycin at 7.5 and 20 mg l completely inhibited callus initiation from cotyledon and hypocotyl explants, respectively. Nontransformed calli did not grow on media supplemented with 10 mg l hygromycin and were killed at 15 mg l. In seed germination assay, the presence of 20 mg l hygromycin significantly suppressed shoot and root elongation of seedlings. This hygromycin concentration was applied to select regenerated transgenic plantlets and their progenies. Based on these results, we developed an efficient hygromycin selection protocol for Agrobacterium-mediated cotton transformation and regeneration.
41318717|A simple and efficient medium for callus tissue culture from garlic to obtain maximal proteolytic activity is described. Murashige and Skoog basal medium supplemented with 4.44 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 0.54 M benzyladenine (BA) resulted in the best biomass production and protease expression. The protease activity belongs to the class of cysteine proteases since they are inhibited by E and Leupeptin and also they are activated by 2-mercaptoethanol and cysteine. They showed good thermal stability. Three active protease bands were found in zymograms of Allium sativum. The in vitro system revealed a significantly higher protease level than storage and embryo tissues of in vivo bulbs.
4293938|Chili pepper (Capsicum annuum L., cv.
4293242| Young cotton (Gossypium hirsutum) ovules will produce fiber in vitro when floated on a defined culture medium. Our laboratory is interested in examining the effects of altered gravity environments on fiber development as a model for the effects of gravity on cell expansion and cellulose biosynthesis. Since liquid culture media are unsuitable for altered gravity experiments, addition of gelling agents to cotton ovule culture media is necessary. In this study we have systematically examined the effects of four gelling agents at several concentrations on fiber production in culture. A rapid screening method using toluidine blue O staining indicated that after 3 wk in culture, fiber growth on 0.15% (wt/vol) Phytagel medium was similar to fiber growth on liquid medium. More detailed analysis of fiber development revealed that fiber length was not influenced by the addition of Phytagel. Accumulation of cellulose, however, was reduced 50-60% compared with fibers produced in liquid media after 3 wk in culture. The fiber cellulose content rose with additional time in culture for both solid and liquid media treatments. By 4 wk in culture, the difference in cellulose content of fiber cell walls grown on solid versus liquid media was less than 20%. This variance in growth response on gelled media could be due to differences in media matric potential, to the immobility of ions trapped within the gel, or to toxicity of contaminants copurifying with Phytagel. By identifying why ovule growth and fiber cellulose biosynthesis are reduced in cultures grown on gelled media, it will be possible to reveal new information about these processes in a system that is less complicated than physiological systems at the whole plant level. 
20171623|Randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) techniques were applied to assess genetic instability among micropropagated tea [Camellia sinensis (L). O. Kuntze] cultivar 'T-78'. Out of 49 random 10-mer primers, 11 generated polymorphism in four out of 17 micropropagated plants and one mother plant. A total of 221 bands, ranging from 525 bp to 2.5 kb, were produced by the 49 primers. Twenty-four were polymorphic for those four plants. However, the remaining bands were monomorphic among all plants. Polymorphism among those four plants showed an identical banding pattern suggesting the occurrence of a single mutation. Our results demonstrated that RAPD can be used successfully to determine the genetic instability among micropropagated plants which otherwise were morphologically indistinguishable.
29736197|An efficient and reproducible method for inducing a large number of bulblets from rhizome explants of Curculigo orchioides Gaertn., an endangered medicinal herb, has been developed. The rhizome pieces, measuring about 1  1 cm (length  width), were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with different concentrations of the cytokinins 6-benzylaminopurine, kinetin, and thidiazuron (TDZ) alone or in combination with 1-naphthalene acetic acid or indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). Of the three cytokinins used, TDZ at 7 M gave the maximum response, with 82% of the cultures responding with an average number of 15.4 bulblets per explant. The addition of auxins with cytokinin considerably increased the response. The optimum induction occurred on MS medium supplemented with 7 M TDZ and 0.5 M IBA. On this medium, 88% of the cultures responded with an average number of 21.4 bulblets per explant. Experiments were also carried out to investigate the role of the sugars sucrose, mannose, and glucose along with 7 M TDZ and 0.5 M IBA. The results indicate that sucrose and mannose at particular concentrations have critical roles in promoting in vitro bulblet induction. The maximum result was observed on MS medium supplemented with 7 M TDZ, 0.5 M IBA, and 200 mM mannose. On this medium, 97% of the cultures responded with an average number of 26.8 bulblets per culture. Several secondary bulblets developing from the leaf blades of primary bulblets were produced when the latter were transferred to MS basal medium for further development. Out of the 45 bulblets transferred to soil, 40 survived. This protocol can be used for the rapid micropropagation of this endangered medicinal herb.
4293835|The effects of growth regulators on culture response of different pyrethrum (Chrysanthemum cinerariaefolium Vis.) genotypes were investigated. In the genotype Sb/66/107, the presence of 2,4-dichorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) at
4293474|Zeatin and its derivatives are major constituents of higher plant cytokinins. Metabolic steps modifying the isoprenoid side chain, such as O-glycosylation, are expected to have a direct bearing on cytokinin-mediated processes. To examine this possibility, transgenic tobacco plants were generated harboring a gene (ZOG1) encoding a zeatin O-glucosyltransferase from Phaseolus lunatus under the control of a constitutive (35S) and an inducible (Tet) promoter. The presence of the transgene resulted in elevated enzyme production and conversion of exogenous zeatin to its O-glucoside, confirming the expression of the ZOG1 gene in transgenic plants. Endogenous O-glucosylzeatin was increased from less than 1 pmol per g fresh weight in leaves and roots of controls to 26 and 68 pmol per g fresh weight in leaves and roots of 35S-ZOG1 transformants, respectively. In cytokinin/auxin interaction experiments, Tet-ZOG1 leaf discs, in the presence of tetracycline, required 10-fold higher zeatin concentrations for the formation of shoots and callus than the controls. In 35S-ZOG1 plants, developmental changes included adventitious root formation on the lower stems, shorter stature, and axillary shoot growth. Thus, increased zeatin O-glucosylation in detached, cytokinin-dependent tissues leads to a shift in the response to exogenous zeatin indicative of cytokinin sequestering. In whole plants the effect can simulate a reduction or a rise in cytokinin activity depending on the tissue and stage of development. The use of tissue- and stage-specific promoters in the future will allow more precise analyses and targeted growth alterations.
20461655|Using immature embryos and cotyledons as explants, a successful system to culture immature embryos and induce direct regeneration from cotyledons was established for Prunus mume "Xuemei". For immature embryo culture, a high frequency of plantlet formation (89.5%) from the embryonic axis was obtained using half-strength Murashige and Skoog (1/2 MS) medium supplemented with 13.2 M 6-benzyladenine (BA) and 2.7 M 1-naphthaleneacetic (NAA). Shoots formed directly from cotyledons with the embryo axis intact when explants were cultured on 1/2 MS medium containing 2.2 M BA with different combinations of NAA (2.7, 5.4 M) and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) (0, 2.5, 5.0 M). Better results were achieved when the embryonic axis was removed from the cotyledons and cultured on 1/2 MS medium supplement with 13.2 M BA, 2.7 M NAA or 2.2 M BA, 2.2 M thidiazuron (TDZ), and 2.7 M NAA, respectively. Regenerated shoots were successfully rooted on 1/2 MS or Woody Plant medium (WPM) supplemented with 2.5-5.0 M IBA. The effect of the embryonic axis, BA, and TDZ on cotyledon regeneration was investigated in detail. Rooted plantlets were transferred to soil successfully.
20461592|In vitro-stored plant germplasm is usually evaluated by visual analysis of the plant based on subjective characters. To reduce the variability in these evaluations, we developed a digital-image evaluation system for in vitro-stored plantlets. This study compares the standard visual evaluation system with a digital analysis system to determine if digital analysis can effectively quantify the health of diverse Humulus germplasm. Eight cultivars of Humulus lupulus L. were stored on standard Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium with iron alone (EDTA chelated) and on MS iron with 100 or 200 mg l sequestrene 138 iron (EDDHA chelated). Digital images of the upper two nodes of each plantlet were evaluated for red, green, blue, green/red ratio, and modified normalized difference vegetation index (MNDVI = R - G/R + G). Evaluation of each plantlet for MNDVI values showed consistent significant differences for all treatments only at the upper node. Significant differences for visual and the MNDVI values among the three iron treatments were observed at the upper node of most of the eight hop cultivars. Regression analysis of the upper node MNDVI values vs. whole-plant visual ratings showed positive correlations for most cultivars. Effects of iron treatments on storage duration were also analyzed for both visual and digital systems. There were significant differences among MNDVI values for plantlets stored on medium with standard MS iron alone (EDTA chelated) and with the addition of sequestrene 138 iron. In general, the MNDVI value of the upper node correlated well with visual ratings and could be used to determine the health of in vitro stored hops.
4293796|The major objective of this study was to determine if the observed changes in polyamines and their biosynthetic enzymes during somatic embryo development were specifically related to either the stage of the embryo development or to the duration of time spent on the maturation medium. Somatic embryos of red spruce (Picea rubens) at different developmental stages, grown in the embryo development and maturation media for various lengths of time, were separated from the associated subtending tissue (embryogenic and the suspensor cell masses) and analyzed for their polyamine content as well as for polyamine biosynthetic enzyme activities. Polyamine content was also analyzed in embryos representing different stages of development that were collected from the same culture plate at the same time and the subtending tissue surrounding them. Putrescine was the predominant polyamine in the pro-embryogenic tissue, while spermidine was predominant during embryo development. Significant changes in spermidine/putrescine and spermine/putrescine ratios were observed at all stages of embryo development as compared to the pro-embryogenic cell mass. Changes in the ratios of various polyamines were clearly correlated with the developmental stage of the embryo rather than the period of growth in the maturation medium. Whereas the activities of both ornithine decarboxylase and arginine decarboxylase increased by week 3 or 4 and stayed high during the subsequent 6 wk of growth, the activity of S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase steadily declined during embryo development.
20541001|Whole plants were regenerated from excised leaves of Drimiopsis kirkii Baker (Lily of the Valley) through direct somatic embryogenesis. An initial exposure to a low level of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D, 0.45 M) in the medium was essential in inducing the direct formation of somatic embryos. A high concentration of 2,4-D (4.52 M) in the proliferation medium reduced embryogenesis and enhanced callus formation. The presence of kinetin in the medium enhanced the somatic-embryogenesis-inducing effect of 2,4-D (0.45 M). The maximum embryogenesis rate (4,026 somatic embryos per gram of leaf) was obtained in explants cultured for 30 d in medium supplemented with 2.33 M kinetin and 0.45 M 2,4-D (embryo induction medium). Kinetin (4.65 M) also enhanced embryo germination (97.6%), but the presence of -naphthalene acetic acid in the medium drastically reduced embryo germination. Following conversion, the regenerated plantlets were transferred to soil and showed normal morphological characteristics.
4293031|We estimated the level of triglycerides (triacylglycerol) at intervals of 2 wk during somatic embryogenesis in peanut. The initial triglyceride content in the leaflet explants was depleted during the formation of embryogenic tissue. It increased with the onset of somatic embryogenesis. Concentration of triglyceride in a fully developed embryo increased further if incubated in the same dehydrated medium for a longer period of time. Transferring these embryos to fresh medium led to germination of somatic embryos with a depletion of storage lipids.
4293437|Mycorrhization of in vitro-propagated plantlets is having a 'positive impact' on their posttransplanting performance. Different aspects of the technology, such as the need for improvement, screening bioassays for selection of the most effective strains, and determination of the multiple role played by mycorrhiza, are discussed. Various constraints pertaining to the utilization of this technology and their possible solutions, such as the use of mixed cultures and aspects of technology transfer are also reviewed.
4293851|Regeneration of plants via somatic embryogenesis was achieved from zygotic embryo explants isolated from mature seeds of Schisandra chinensis. Merkle and Sommer's medium, fortified with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D;
23326890|The objective of the present study was to investigate the origin of discrepancy between experimental results in in vitro culture of Turkish melon (Cucumis melo L.) cultivars, conducted by the same individual using the same protocol and same seed batches in two different laboratories. The difference in the sucrose source was found to be the major reason for the deviation in results between the two laboratories. The percentage of regenerating explants and the number of bud-like protuberances and/or shoots were significantly greater when a food-grade Turkish sucrose was used in the medium compared with analytical-grade sucrose. Media formulated with the food-grade sucrose regenerated 37 and 67 % more explants and bud-like protuberances and/or shoots per explant, respectively, than media containing analytical-grade sucrose. No meaningful differences were found in added elements or anions between the sucrose sources or by liquid chromatography/mass spectroscopy. The only significant chemical difference observed between the sucrose samples was the presence of melanoidins (Maillard reaction products) in the food-grade sucrose. The melanoidins were of high molecular weight (>3,000 Da determined by ultrafiltration), with characteristic ultravioletvisible spectra and in vitro antioxidant activity. Melanoidin-containing sucrose can be differentiated by color and spectroscopy.
20461639|Burma reed (Neyraudia arundinacea Henr.) is a C grass native to Southeast Asia and Indomalaya that grows quickly, exhibits strong resistance to environmental stresses, and is extremely adaptable. It can be widely utilized as a bioenergy crop for biomass conversion. In vitro multiple shoots were first established from axillary buds and then subcultured on propagation medium containing 10 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 2.0 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Multishoot clumps were used as explants to induce somatic embryogenesis and adventitious shoot formation. The results showed that auxin 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid or NAA play a key role for the induction of somatic embryogenesis and adventitious shoot formation, whereas cytokinin BA or kineatin enhance shoot proliferation and plant regeneration from callus and somatic embryos. Efficient somatic embryogenesis, mass propagation, and plant regeneration systems in Burma reed were established.
4293052| Two methods (I and II) for somatic embryo production from embryogenic suspension cultures of Camellia japonica are presented. Method I, embryogenic suspension cultures, was established from suspension cultures initiated from leaf-derived callus. These cultures were maintained by reducing agitation and increasing subculture interval. Induction of somatic embryogenesis was achieved in MS28 medium, 6, 12, 24, and 36 mo. after culture establishment. Embryo production decreased after 1 yr of culture. Method II, suspensions of single embryogenic cells and proembryos, was obtained from leaves cultured in liquid MS 13 medium 6 wk after culture initiation. Embryo production was 23 embryos/ml. Germination of cell suspension-derived embryos on MS56 medium was 16.7% (4.2%) for method I, and 35.4% (5.1%) for method II. The embryos germinated into plantlets with 0 to 7 axillary shoots. 
42568716|In vitro cultivation systems of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi are useful tools to study the interaction between plants and their fungal symbiont, and also to develop new biotechnologies. Plantlets of the latex-producing species Hevea brasiliensis clone PB 260 were grown in a dense extraradical mycelium network of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Rhizophagus irregularis MUCL 41833 developed from a mycelium donor plant (Medicago truncatula A17). The factors indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), 2-morpholineoethanesulfonic acid monohydrate (MES) buffer, and carbon dioxide (CO) were tested on root development and colonization by the fungus. No colonization was observed in the presence of plantlets pre-treated with IBA. The highest levels of root colonization were obtained when plantlets were mycorrhized under a high CO concentration (1,000 molmol) with MES (10 mM) added to the growth medium. Widespread root colonization (with presence of arbuscules, intraradical mycelium, and spores/vesicles) was predominantly observed in newly produced roots. Therefore, it appears essential to improve root initiation and growth for improving in vitro mycorrhization of H. brasiliensis. We demonstrated the potential of the "mycelium donor plant" in vitro culture system to produce colonized H. brasiliensis plantlets before their transfer to ex vitro conditions.
20541000|Plant regeneration through direct somatic embryogenesis in Aeschynanthus radicans 'Mona Lisa' was achieved in this study. Globular somatic embryos were formed directly from cut edges of leaf explants and cut ends or on the surface of stem explants 4 wk after culture on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with N-phenyl-N-1, 2, 3-thiadiazol-5-ylurea (TDZ) with -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA), TDZ with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), or 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) or kintin (KN) with 2,4-D. MS medium containing 9.08 M TDZ and 2.68 M 2,4-D resulted in 71% of stem explants producing somatic embryos. In contrast, 40% of leaf explants produced somatic embryos when induced in medium containing 6.81 M TDZ and 2.68 M 2,4-D. Somatic embryos matured, and some germinated into small plants on the initial induction medium. Up to 64% of stem explants cultured on medium supplemented with 9.08 M TDZ+2.68 M 2,4-D, 36% of leaf explants cultured on medium containing 6.81 M TDZ and 2.68 M 2,4-D had somatic embryo germination before or after transferring onto MS medium containing 8.88 M BA and 1.07 M NAA. Shoots elongated better and roots developed well on MS medium without growth regulators. Approximately 30-50 plantlets were regenerated from each stem or leaf explant. The regenerated plants grew vigorously after transplanting to a soil-less substrate in a shaded greenhouse with more than a 98% survival rate. Three months after their establishment in the shaded greenhouse, 500 plants regenerated from stem explants were morphologically evaluated, from which five types of variants that had large, orbicular, elliptic, small, and lanceolate leaves were identified. Flow cytometry analysis of the variants along with the parent showed that they all had one identical peak, indicating that the variant lines, like the parent, were diploid. The mean nuclear DNA contents of the variant lines and their parent ranged from 4.90 to 4.99 pg 2C, which were not significantly different statistically. The results suggest that the regenerated plants have a stable ploidy level, and the regeneration method established in this study can be used for rapid propagation of ploidystable Aeschynanthus radicans.
20461630|Two independent experiments were performed to establish micropropagation of Cleome spinosa from stem segments. In the first experiment, direct shoot organogenesis on hypocotyl explants from 2-mo.-old nursery-grown seedlings was obtained on Murashige and Skoog medium with different combinations of benzyladenine (BA) and 6-furfurylaminopurine, added either individually or in combination. Best proliferation rates occurred in the presence of 2.2 and 4.4 M BA and the highest mean number of shoots was produced in response to 4.4 M BA. In the second experiment, regeneration via direct organogenesis was also obtained from nodal and internodal segments of axenic plants cultured in the presence of BA (4.4 and 8.8 M) in association with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) (0.57 and 1.14 M). Internodal explants were the most responsive on all media tested. The best mean number of shoots per explant was achieved on medium with 4.4 M BA in association with 0.57 M IAA. Histological studies of the globular structures formed at the apical portion of the explants revealed direct shoot regeneration and adventitious shoot differentiation from meristematic centers around the vascular bundles of the primary regenerants. All shoots elongated and rooted on MS0 medium. The acclimatization rates ranged between 70 and 84%. Plants reached to maturity and flowered 4 mo. after transfer to ex vitro conditions.
20461728|A method for in vitro regeneration of Searsia dentata from nodal and shoot tip explants derived from mature trees is outlined. Nodal explants produced multiple shoots from the axis when cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 3% sucrose supplemented with 0, 5, 7.5, 10, or 12.5 M N-benzyladenine (BA). An average of 5.3 shoots was obtained from nodal explants on 10 M BA. For shoot tip explants, however, supplementation of -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) with BA favored a caulogenic response. A maximum of 6.1 shoots were produced per shoot tip explant on MS containing 7.5 M BA plus 5.0 M NAA. The in vitro-regenerated shoots produced roots when transferred to full-strength MS medium containing 3% sucrose and 10 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). The developed plantlets were transferred initially to a mist house. After an initial acclimatization period of 3-4 mo, plantlets were shifted to the greenhouse where they thrived for 9 mo. The standardized protocol for mass propagation of S. dentata should eliminate the dependence on natural stands of plants for traditional medicinal purposes, and will also serve as a means of conservation as the species is heavily overexploited.
20461665|This study describes a protocol for the induction of high frequency somatic embryogenesis directly from immature inflorescence explants in three sorghum genotypes (SPV-462, SPV-839, and M35-1). The effect of various growth regulators on somatic embryogenesis was investigated. High frequency somatic embrogenesis was obtained on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2 mg l 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), and addition of 0.5 mg l kinetin (KN) in the medium further improved the formation of somatic embryos per explant in all genotypes. The presence of 1.5 mg l 6-benzylaminopurine plus 1.0 mg l KN in MS medium was most efficient for maturation and germination of somatic embryos. The genotype SPV-462 performed better than SPV-839 and M35-1 in terms of induction and germination of somatic embryos. Organogenesis also occurred in callus of all genotypes at the frequency of 20-25%. Regenerated plants from somatic embryos were successfully acclimatized in soil in the greenhouse where plants were grown to maturity, flowered, and set seeds. Regenerated plants appeared normal like that of the seed-raised plants.
4293420| Compact callus clusters showing a certain level of cellular or tissue differentiation were established from Catharanthus roseus stem and leaf explants in a modified MS liquid induction medium supplemented with 5.37 M -naphthaleneacetic acid and 4.65 M kinetin. In the induction medium most leaf explants developed into friable half-closed hollow callus clusters, whereas in the same medium containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid instead of -naphthaleneacetic acid, most leaf explants were induced to form dispersed cell suspension cultures. Characteristics of these different types of suspension cultures were compared, and the results showed that the compact callus clusters could synthesize indole alkaloids 1.9- and 2.4-fold higher than the half-closed hollow callus clusters and dispersed cell cultures, respectively. The degree of compaction expressed by the ratio of fresh weight to dry weight of these suspension cultures was correlated to indole alkaloid production. Our studies also postulated that the level of cellular/tissue differentiation might be responsible for these different alkaloid synthesis capabilities. Sucrose regime affected some properties (the size, degree of compaction, differentiation level) of the compact callus cluster cultures and therefore influenced alkaloid production. 
4293476|Embryonal explants from water chestnut (Trapa japonica Flerov) seeds germinated with high efficiency following a 40-d cold treatment at 5 C on half-strength MS (Murashige and Skoog) medium supplemented with
20461595|This study reports a protocol for germination of Givotia rottleriformis (var. Tel. Thella Poniki) using zygotic embryo culture. A 100% germination was obtained by culturing the embryos on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 30g l sucrose. A sucrose concentration lower or higher than 30g l resulted in lower germination or promoted callus formation. The seedling growth was promoted by the addition of 100mg l tyrosine in the medium. Seedlings germinated in the presence of 0.2-0.4mg l -naphthaleneacetic acid and 0.3-0.5mg l indole-3-butyric acid were abnormal, showing a slender stem with slender roots or forming callus with stout roots. Germination also affected embryo orientation in culture; placing embryos upright on the medium was most beneficial for germination. The in vitro-germinated seedlings were acclimatized in soil under shady conditions with a survival rate of 60-70%. These plants were phenotypically normal, healthy, and similar to donor plants. This protocol will be useful for overcoming seed dormancy and for rapid multiplication and conservation of G. rottleriformis using zygotic embryo culture.
24596331|In vitro embryogenesis is an asexual reproduction process by which embryos are produced from either gametophytic (androecium/gynoecium) or sporophytic (somatic) tissues. Regardless of the type of explant used, the hallmark of this process is that the explant cells undergo dedifferentiation and acquire meristematic identity. The developmental program of such meristematic cells can then be redirected to form somatic embryos, depending on the imposed culture environment. Analysis of proteomes and transcriptomes has led to the molecular identification and functional characterization of many genes involved in the initiation and development of somatic embryos. These genes can be classified into three categories: embryonic induction, embryonic, and maturation. So far, few genes involved in early somatic embryogenesis have been characterized because isolation of early pure embryonic tissue is very difficult. This review focuses on genes regulating the induction process. Furthermore, we employed bioinformatic tools and pathway databases to identify genes that may play roles in regulating early somatic embryogenesis. A total of 51 proteins were identified that may function in early somatic embryogenesis. These proteins are predicted to be involved in hormone signal transduction, chromatin remodeling, cell cycle regulation, cellulose biosynthetic and metabolic activity, GTPase signal transduction, transcription regulation, meristem formation and maintenance, and/or apoptosis and microtubule organization. This review will help advance knowledge and promote research on molecular regulation of early somatic embryogenesis.
20461638|An efficient plant regeneration protocol was established for castor (Ricinus communis L.) Hypocotyl tissue from zygotic embryo axis produced adventitious shoots when treated with either thidiazuron (TDZ, 1 M) or 6-benzylaminopurine (BA, 20 M). TDZ resulted in more than a threefold higher rate of shoot induction (a maximum of 24.2 shoots per explant) than BA (6.8 shoots). Our results also showed that the pretreatment of explants in the dark increased the number of shoots regenerated per explant by 82% and 36% with TDZ and BA, respectively. The elongation of hypocotyl tissue in the dark appears to be the primary cause of the increase. Comparable rates of rooting were achieved on the media supplemented with either indole-3-butyric acid (IBA, 84.3%) or 1-naphthalene-acetic acid (NAA, 87.4%) at 5 M. However, IBA was more efficient in promoting root and shoot development, resulting in a higher rate of establishment (93.5%) in the soil, compared to the rate with NAA (39.5%). Histological analysis showed the adventitious induction of the shoot buds originated from the cortex of the hypocotyl tissue.
42568708|Production of orchid seedlings often requires complex laboratory infrastructure; therefore, a simple and low-cost method would be of general benefit to many small-scale producers and orchid enthusiasts. This article describes a protocol for preparing culture media using a domestic microwave oven. Two alternative culture media were evaluated for a range of factors, including the duration of boiling, the efficacy of antiseptics applied to jars and media, the concentration of the antiseptic hydrogen peroxide required for sterilization, and the growth of Oncidium cebolleta and Phalaenopsis amabilis plantlets in media prepared using a microwave oven compared with conventionally autoclaved media. It was found that addition of 2 mL of 30% hydrogen peroxide (Peridrol solution) per liter of culture medium, an 8-min boiling time in the microwave oven, and 8 g/L agar were sufficient to produce solidified culture media, which facilitated orchard seed germination and growth without contamination. Furthermore, the microwaved media exhibited superior plantlet growth to autoclaved media.
20064985|Larix was chosen for the study on interspecies protoplast fusion due to its ability to regenerate plants from protoplasts derived from embryogenic cultures. L. laricina line L2 was used in fusion experiments with either L.  eurolepis line L6 or L.  leptoeuropaea line L5. A method of unambiguous labeling of parental protoplasts prior to fusion was developed using vital fluorescent dyes. Of a number of dyes tested, only rhodamine B hexyl ester chloride (R6) and 3,3-dihexylox-carbocyanine iodide (DiOC) stained the protoplasts in a consistent and uniform fashion. The fusion of mixed parental protoplasts that were internally labeled was carried out either in the presence of a 20% polyethylene glycol (PEG) solution or in an electric field. The progress of fusion was readily observed, taking only minutes under the experimental conditions. The fusion products could be identified by dual fluorescence several h after the onset of fusion. Heterofusion frequencies of approximately 18% and 6% in the presence of PEG and an electric field, respectively, were attained. Postfusion cultures between L.  laricina protoplasts and protoplasts of L.  leptoeuropaea gave rise to cell colonies and between L. laricina and L.  eurolepis, to mature somatic embryos.
4293821|As an alternative to seed propagation, an efficient micropropagation system based on axillary shoot formation and subsequent rooting was developed for the threatened and medicinal plant species Dorstenia gigas (Moraceae). Three different basal media were tested. For the best basal medium, a modified WPM medium, different concentrations of the carbohydrates sucrose, glucose, fructose and maltose were tested. The total number of shoots was not markedly affected. For all carbohydrates but maltose, however, there was a reduction in the number of normal, healthy shoots for carbohydrate concentrations greater than 14.6 mM for the disaccharides and 27.8 mM for the monosaccharides (i.e., approximately
23326874|Camelina sativa is a promising under-exploited oilseed crop with potential to become a biofuel feedstock. The ability to transform C. sativa would allow for the rapid introduction of novel traits into this emerging crop. We report the development of an Agrobacterium-based floral dip transformation method, requiring no vacuum-infiltration step, with transformation efficiencies up to 0.8%. C. sativa cultivars Ames 26665, "Calena" A3U7761, Ames 1043, and "Celine" were tested using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains GV3101, EHA105, and At503. Use of all strains and cultivars resulted in transformed plants; however, GV3101 was the only Agrobacterium strain and Ames 1043 the only C. sativa cultivar to yield transformed plants under all conditions tested. Progeny analysis revealed that in approximately 78% of the transformed plants, the transgene segregated as a single locus. Furthermore, a high-throughput, filter paper-based PCR method was developed to screen marker-free transformed plants. Together, these methods will allow for easier introduction of new genes into this promising oilseed crop.
20064882|Germinated zygotic embryos of Pacific yew (Taxus brevifolia) were transiently transformed with the expression vector pBl121, as demonstrated by expression of the -glucuronidase (GUS) gene. Embryos exhibited sectors of blue color following treatment with DNA and dimethyl sulfoxide (optimal concentration of 2.25%). However, transient expression depended on the presence of ions in the buffer, as no GUS activity was observed when deionized water was used in place of other buffers. GUS gene expression was dependent on the developmental stage of the embryo, since the frequency of GUS expression was elevated in embryos incubated with the expression vector during a period from 4 to 8 wk after culture of DCR medium. In addition, the utility of using zygotic embryos from mature seeds for tissue culture and transient expression experiments was also examined.
4293391| A method has been developed to facilitate shoot formation from leaf explants of almond. Leaves were dissected from micropropagated shoot cultures of the commercial cultivars Nonpareil and Ne Plus Ultra, and sections incubated on Almehdi and Parfitt's (1986) basal medium (AP) with varied plant growth-regulator conditions. Three auxins, 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), in combination with two cytokinins, benzylaminopurine (BA) and thidiazuron (TDZ), were tested at various concentrations along with casein hydrolysate (CH) to determine the conditions most conducive to adventitious shoot regeneration. Response to the tested plant growth-regulator conditions varied with genotype. Of the three auxins tested, NAA and IBA induced adventitious shoots from Ne Plus Ultra explants, but only IBA was effective for Nonpareil. For the cytokinins, shoot development from Ne Plus Ultra occurred in the presence of either BA or TDZ, whereas for Nonpareil only TDZ was effective unless CH was incorporated in the basal medium. The inclusion of CH (0.1% w/v) improved callus morphology, and increased regeneration frequencies for both cultivars. Maximum regeneration frequencies for Ne Plus Ultra (44.4%) and Nonpareil (5.5%) were achieved on AP basal salts supplemented with CH, IBA (9.8 M), and TDZ at 22.7 and 6.8 M, respectively. 
20171633|Controlled mild desiccation of mature white spruce somatic embryos prior to germination improves the quality of the germinated embryos. More severe desiccation results in increased injury and death but is desirable for long-term storage of embryos and production of desiccated artificial seed. A method was developed to improve desiccation tolerance in somatic embryos using a temperature treatment. Culture plates with embryos at four stages of development were subjected to temperatures of 1, 5, 10, or 20C for periods of 0, 1, 2, 4, or 8 wk duration. After the temperature treatment, the embryos were harvested and air-dried for 2 h under a laminar flow hood. Dried embryos were placed directly on germination medium and the quality of the germinants was assessed after 4 wk. The initial maturation stage of the embryo and the temperature and duration of the treatment had a significant effect on the quality of the germinants. Most treatments caused marked differential survival of organs. The optimal response was obtained with embryos that had been grown for 51 d (cotyledonary stage) on maturation medium and that were subsequently exposed to a temperature of 5C for 8 wk prior to air drying. This treatment produced 58% undamaged germinants with normal cotyledons, hypocotyls, and roots. Only 1% of the untreated air-dried embryos germinated normally.
23321167|Mature embryos from hulled, regenerable GP-1 (A. sativa L.), hull-less, recalcitrant Tibor (A. nuda L.) and reciprocal crosses were cultured in vitro on a putrescine- (Put) containing medium. Hormone-free Murashige and Skoog medium (MS-0) or shoot proliferation medium (SPM) [2.0 mg l-1 (9.0 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D)], with and without 0.5 mM Put or 1 mM Put, were tested for effects on somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration. Put/SPM (0.5 mM) was the best medium for both somatic embryos (SEs) and plant numbers per gram of callus, regardless of genotype. This effect was most evident in Tibor, which produced no somatic embryos or plants on SPM, a previously published regeneration medium, and in Tibor  GP-1, which produced reduced numbers of SE and plants on the remaining media. The number of SEs per gram of callus for GP-1 and GP-1  Tibor showed little significant differences between the different media. Put treatments produced plants from the four genotypes but the regeneration efficiency on Put-containing medium was similar or even better than on SPM for explants containing maternal GP-1 germplasm. This suggests that Put-containing MS-0 medium can be used for testing regeneration of other oat lines. In addition, SPM containing 0.5 mM Put can be used to induce significant regeneration of plants from normally recalcitrant genotypes. This improvement greatly increases the number of potential germplasms for further transformation efforts.
4292998|Plants derived from anther culture are theoretically haploid, but diploid plants are also known to arise. Anther culture-derived diploid plants are usually homozygous and are believed to be due to spontaneous doubling of chromosomes in either microsporocytes or callus cells during the culture process. However, heterozygous diploid regenerants may also arise from a) regeneration from cultured somatic cells, b) mutation occurring during or after a spontaneous doubling event, c) fusion of unlike haploid cells in chimeric callus, and d) regeneration from diploid microsporocytes resulting from aberrant meioses. This study was designed to elucidate the frequency and origin of diploid regenerants from rice anther culture. Regenerants were obtained from 11 F
4292966|Media for induction of somatic embryogenesis from immature cotyledonary tissues of Azadirachta indica (Neem) were determined. Callus was initiated on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with
