25535848|The Irish species of Ischnocera and Amblycera (Phthiraptera) are reviewed and discussed. The list contains forty-eight species new to the island including five species new to the British Isles. A total of 98 species are now known from Ireland
25536114|A summer survey was made of the chironomid fauna of six littoral sites, three sandy and three rocky, in Lough Neagh, Northern Ireland. The most abundant taxa at four of the sites were Glyptotendipes sp.gr. A and Microtendipes pedellus gr. TWINSPAN computer analysis divided the site initially by substrate type. Insects comprised over 50 per cent of the macroinvertebrate fauna in the sandy littoral and c70 per cent in the rocky, chironomids being 99 per cent (sand) and 93 per cent (rocks) of the insects in terms of numbers.
41419038|Thirteen species of chalcidoid wasp new to Ireland are identified along with numerous new county records.
25536594|Moth-trapping on Sherkin Island from 1977-1997 has produced a species list of 223 'macromoths'. The list includes the following rare and locally distributed species: cloaked carpet, netted pug, sand dart, square-spot dart, southern wainscot, Barrett's marbled coronet and pinion-streaked snout. The following migrant species were recorded: the convolvulus hawkmoth, striped hawkmoth, crimson speckled, delicate, small mottled willow, bordered straw and the gem.
25536779|The Asian amphipod Caprella mutica, first recorded in Europe from the Netherlands in 1995, is now known from Norway and Scotland and has recently been recorded from the west coast of Ireland. This account records its presence in Dublin Bay on the east coast of Ireland. Although this species does not have a free-swimming larval stage it would appear that it may expand its distribution with fouling associated with small craft or ships or perhaps with drifting plants. Specimens were not found overwinter.
25537603|The occurrences of a podzol over Silurian shale parent material, two to three hundred feet below the normal level in Co. Limrick, were examined. The cause was found to be a mixture of acidic Old Red Sandstone in the parent material, carried down by solifluction.
25535968|The macrofungal biota of Dryas communities in the Burren was found to be composed of a major woodland element and a lesser grassland element. The forest element is comprised mainly of common forest fungi and a smaller number of coniferous forest species which are otherwise rare or absent from Ireland. It is hypothesized that this macrofungal biota is a relictual biota from extinct pine forest in the Burren.
25536756|Stomach contents information is presented from a male sperm whale calf thought to have live stranded in Co Clare, Ireland, in May 2004. This is the second smallest sperm whale recorded as stranded in the North Atlantic since stranding records began. The stomach contents consisted of a white substance (probably milk) and the hard remains of several hundred oceanic cephalopods, mainly squid of the family Histioteuthidae.
25536710|Harbour seals Phoca vitulina L. in inner Bantry Bay and inner Kenmare River were surveyed on a regular basis from 1985-2004. These data, along with historical records from 1964-1984, are reviewed. There was a significant positive linear relationship between year and count. Overall, the data show that between 1985 and 2004 the population of harbour seal in the count areas increased by 298% (Bantry Bay) and 354% (Kenmare River). The two bays are now among the most important sites for harbour seal in Ireland. The results are discussed in relation to pressures on the local harbour seal population including persecution, disturbance and phocine distemper virus. Harbour seal numbers have increased despite these potential and actual threats.
41419119|Records of a five year survey of mammalian road casualties in two different parts (removal reference areas) of the Co. Cork portion of the Four Area Badger Project are reported. There were more hedgehog, domestic cat and fox casualties in the removal area, but only the species differed to a statistically significant extent from the reference area. How such studies might be improved and the possible implications for epidemiology and biodiversity are discussed.
25535942|Vicia orobus is a threatened plant in Ireland, having been seen recently at only three sites according to the Irish red data book. The plant was recorded from several stations in Galway (H16 and H17) before 1914. In this paper the plant is reported as persisting in all its old stations as well as in some new localities. A total of eight populations in Co Galway are listed as well as an additional new station in East Mayo (H26). The plant is found in two habitats, wooded islands on Lough Corrib and heathland overlying limestone where it occurs alongside "Burren" species such as Gentiana verna. Despite the confirmation of old records the plant is considered as being threatened by land reclamation.
25536826|The water boatman (Heteroptera: Corixidae) Micronecta griseola Horvth was found at Lough Graney, Co Clare in July 2004, the first Irish record. Information is given on the biology, habitat and field characteristics of M. griseola and congeneric species.
25536083|The current status of the exotic barnacle Elminius modestus Darwin was assessed at 27 sites in Galway Bay during the months of February to April 1996. E. modestus was recorded at 13 of the 27 sites visited. These sites all lie at the eastern end of the Bay. The species was particularly common in the vicinity of Galway Harbour. Sites where the species was absent lie towards the mouth of the Bay on both northern and southern shores. The most likely explanation for the observed pattern of abundance and distribution of the species in Galway Bay is that it was initially introduced by shipping and since then has spread from its original site of colonization near Galway docks by marginal dispersal. Breeding populations of E. modestus were recorded at five of the sites examined.
25536347|Pseudodactylogyrus bini (Kikuchi) an introduced monogenean parasite of eels Anguilla anguilla L. is recorded for the first time in Ireland. Infection parameters for this species and other gill infecting ectoparasites (Pseudodactylogyrus anguillae Yin and Sproston, Ergasilus gibbus Von Nordmann and glochidia of Anodonta cygnea L.) of eels from two sites on the River Erne are presented.
24394130|To investigate the extent of road mortalities of mammals in the west of Ireland a survey was carried out during 2006, 2009 and 2010. In total, 265 individuals from twelve species were recorded. Badgers, foxes and hares accounted for eighty per cent of casualties. Mortalities of these three species were analysed over years, seasons, habitats and road type to identify times and locations of highest risk. Results are discussed in relation to the literature and recommendations to minimise road mortality are suggested.
24393870|From 2006-2010 an extensive survey of the Marsh Fritillary butterfly was carried out in Co. Donegal. Persistent checking of sites with suitable habitat confirmed the Marsh Fritillary as present in at least 55 10km squares of the 81 squares covering Co. Donegal.
20764498|To help emphasize the different approach suggested for the 2006 conference, the phrase 'Mind the Gap' was introduced. This was thought to be appropriate as the phrase could have a number of different meanings. At first sight this could be construed as simply meaning the geographical gap created by the Irish Sea and the prey gap known to exist in Ireland fauna etc, but the main theme of this paper can summarized by the observation that the gaps are not only geographical and biological but are just as much a creation of the way we look at the problems of colonization. Indeed, although much of the paper is devoted to the differences between laboratory and field scientists in their approach to research, this contribution will also explore more subtle gaps in the form of under expectation of the role of population movement, transport and trade in the introduction of new elements or even in the role of human as a cause of extinctions.
24394127|Clergymen naturalists have made a significant contribution to nature in Ireland and some, such as Edward Allworthy Armstrong (1900-1978) and John Joseph Moore SJ (b.1927), are international figures. Their work, largely carried out in the field, was done mainly in the late-nineteenth and early-twentieth centuries and, although some were professionals, for the majority it was leisure time activity. While most of them were Protestants, some Roman Catholic clergymen have played a part in the more recent environmental movement. The majority were botanists but ornithology and entomology were also important pursuits. The present account focusses on those three disciplines, each with biobibliographical notes, and it serves as an introduction to the subject. There is also a section on biodiversity, conservation and environment, but geology has been excluded.
25536664|A sample of 100 common megrim Lepidorhombus whiffiagonis and 100 four-spot megrim Lepidorhombus boscii were collected from the port of Rossaveal, Co Galway, on four different days between November 1998 and July 1999. Ranges of 80-96 and 79-89 dorsal fin rays and 60-74 and 63-71 anal fin rays were recorded for L. whiffiagonis and L. boscii respectively. For vertebral counts, ranges of 40-43 and 39-43 were recorded for L. whiffiagonis and L. boscii respectively.
25536303|Analysis of the morphology of herbarium and fresh Valerianella species in Ireland indicates that there are previously unrecorded morphological differences (leaf and flower-head width) between them and between varieties of V. locusta (plant height, leaf length and number of basal rosette leaves). These data are used to generate a new key to this genus in Ireland, which requires field-testing.
20764456|More than 75 individual reports of Mistletoe (Viscum album) from 16 Irish vice-counties are reviewed. Mistletoe is not an indigenous species, but was deliberately introduced by horticulturists. In the second half of 19th century, viable populations of this species were established in Dublin's botanical gardens, whence it spread with human assistance as well as by natural means. Mistletoe is still spreading in the Dublin region.
25539798|Distribution records of and notes on some Empididae and Hybotidae regarded as scarce in Ireland are presented, including Chelipoda albiseta (Zett.), Crossopalpus humilis (Frey), Empis bicuspidata Coll., Hilara quadriseta Coll., H. subpollinosa Coll., Holoclera nigripennis (Fabr.), Platypalpus australominutus Grootaert, P. cursitans (Fabr.), P. pallipes (Fall.), Stilpon subnubilus Chvla and Trichina pallipes (Zett.), which are new to the Irish fauna. A revised checklist of the Empididae, Hybotidae and Microphoridae of Ireland is included. /// Des donnes faunistiques sont presentes pour quelques espces de Diptres Empididae et Hybotidae rares en Irelande. Les espces Chelipoda albiseta (Zett.), Crossopalpus humilis-(Frey), Empis bicuspidata Coll., Hilara quadriseta Coll., H. subpollinosa Coll., Holoclera nigripennis (Fabr.), Platypalpus australominutus Grootaert, P. cursitans (Fabr.), P. pallipes (Fall.), Stilpon subnubilus Chvla et Trichina pallipes (Zett.) ont t recoltes en Irelande pour la premire fois. Une liste revis des espces Irlandaises des Empididae, Hybotidae et Microphoridae est presente.
20764418|Archaeophytes are plant taxa that were introduced by humans before 1500. Here we record a first, provisional, list of Irish archaeophytes used in our other work. There are 96 taxa that are treated as archaeophytes in Ireland on the basis that they are regarded as archaeophytes in Britain and have established populations in Ireland. The limitations of this approach and the need for further work are discussed.
25536417|Sedimentation and water flow rates were measured at six sublittoral cliff sites in a sea lough, in Co Cork, Ireland. The variables recorded changed with depth and site. The highest sedimentation rates (at equivalent depths) were found at the site of moderate flow, as slowing water currents allow material to settle from suspension and reduce re-suspension. Sedimentation rates increased with depth at all sites. Current flow rate showed an inverse relationship to the sedimentation rates. The flow rate also differed considerably between spring and neap tides, with up to 60 per cent faster currents recorded during spring tides. Seasonal variation was found in sedimentation rates and in the organic content of the sediment collected. Highest seasonal sedimentation rates (for any given depth) were found during the winter months. This was correlated with higher wind speeds, although peaks in sedimentation were not observed until a wind speed threshold was reached. Organic content increased during the spring and summer months, most likely due to increased planktonic production.
25535926|The red-mouthed goby Gobius cruentatus was recorded from Lough Hyne, Bantry and Kenmare bays, on the south-west Irish coast. These sites are localized within three regions on the south-west Irish coast and may be independent of each other. G. cruentatus requires boulder or stone spaces or rock crevices in shallow, sheltered areas. The largest known population was at Lough Hyne, a deep sheltered sea inlet. At one locality within this Lough G. cruentatus was the dominant species taken in traps. The records from Ireland represent the most northerly extent of its range. In areas where commercial fishing for the prawn Palaemon serratus takes place, certain goby species may be vulnerable to trapping.
25536734|The little-known planthopper Paraliburnia clypealis is described from experimental field margin strips within a dairy grassland. Suction samples were taken in 2004 and 2005. The number of individuals was greater in the field margins than control grazed areas. The vegetation of the field margin experiment was recorded, giving a detailed description of the habitat. The substantial population of P. clypealis found in the field margins indicates that in Ireland this species is not restricted to the wetland habitats and food plants previously described.
25536823|A mammal survey, using tracks and signs surveys, small mammal trapping and bat detection was carried out in Terryland Forest Park, an urban woodland under development in Galway City. Twelve mammal species were positively identified as being present in the Park, including mammals common in urban areas, such as the fox, house mouse and brown rat, and those more unusual, such as the Irish hare. The Park provides an excellent habitat for mammal species within the urban landscape, and 'green' corridors leading to the Park from the countryside surrounding the City provide a route into and out of the area for its mammalian fauna.
25535867|From preliminary investigation of mini-turves obtained from a north Antrim heathland it is suggested that these contained a viable seed bank which could facilitate representative regeneration following vegetation disturbance. Subsequent investigations of species presence and abundance over a 12 month period indicates that there are variations in the seed bank between different ages of Calluna stands. The rate of reappearance of individual species is also variable.
20764519|Ochthebius nilssoni Hebauer, 1986 is newly recorded from lakes in and around the Burren in Clare and south-east Galway. The only other site where it is known with certainty is an oligotrophic lake in northern Sweden. A key to Irish Ochthebius and Enicocerus is provided.
20764499|At the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM) c26 000 calendar years ago, global sea levels were around 120m lower than present due to the storage of water on land in the form of large, high-latitude ice sheets. This lowering of sea level exposed portions of the modern seafloor surrounding north-west Europe, forming 'land-bridges that joined Britain and Ireland to the rest of the continent. Sometime later, these land-bridges were drowned by rising sea levels as the ice sheets melted in response to a warming climate. Precisely when these land connections were severed has been a subject of debate for several decades, driven in part by the desire to understand the postglacial recolonization of Ireland by plants and animals. The level of the sea relative to the land surface (relative sea-level) results from the interplay between vertical changes in both land and sea level. These processes can be simulated by computer models that describe the response of the solid Earth to the loading and unloading of glacial ice (glacial rebound models). In addition to simulating relative sea-levels, the output from these models can, when combined with bathymetric and topographic data, be used to produce first-order palaeogeographic reconstructions. This paper uses palaeogeographic reconstructions of this kind to investigate the location and duration of possible land-bridges joining Ireland to Britain. These reconstructions are derived from a recently developed glacial rebound model for Ireland that incorporates an updated British-Irish Ice Sheet component and is trained by geological sea-level indicators from around the Irish coast. The resulting reconstructions suggest that Ireland was separated from Britain by c16 000 calendar years ago, at which time climate was still cold and local ice caps persisted in parts of the country. No support is found for the idea that a Holocene land-bridge was instrumental in the migration of temperate flora and fauna into Ireland.
20764419|A review is given of the known Irish status of species within the leafhopper sub-family Idiocerinae. The discovery of six species previously unknown in Ireland is described.
25536845|The bank vole, Clethrionomys glareolus, is found in south-west Ireland but is not native. There is compelling evidence suggesting that the species was introduced from Germany in the 1920s with equipment for a hydroelectric scheme on the River Shannon. We assessed the genetic evidence for this introduction source using sequences of the mitochondrial (mt) cytochrome b gene (713 base pairs) from 34 individuals captured throughout the bank vole distribution in Ireland, 10 individuals from Britain and 30 individuals collected in southern Germany (from two areas from where the hydroelectric machinery originated). Our results support previous RFLP studies, which showed low levels of mtDNA variation in Irish bank voles, suggesting that the founder population consisted of few individuals. There was a close relationship between the Irish and German sequences, showing that Irish voles are part of the western European phylogeographical lineage, but we could not pinpoint with certainty the origin of the bank voles to either of the two areas in Germany. Larger and more widespread samples from Germany and appraisal of additional molecular markers would be needed to further investigate the origin of Irish bank voles.
24394189|A new Red List of Irish terrestrial mammals was published in 2009. All 26 terrestrial species native to Ireland or naturalized in Ireland before 1500 were included in the assessment. Of these, one was found to be 'Regionally Extinct' (grey wolf Canis lupus L., 1758); one achieved a threat status of 'Vulnerable' (black rat Rattus rattus (L., 1758)); three were found to be 'Near Threatened' (Leisler's bat Nyctalus leisleri (Kuhl, 1817), otter Lutra lutra (L., 1758) and red squirrel Sciurus vulgaris L., 1758); one was 'Data Deficient' (Brandt's bat Myotis brandtii (Eversmann, 1845))); and the remaining twenty species were of 'Least Concern'. While the Irish mammalian fauna in general is in good status, a number of widespread threats are recognized such as unsympathetic woodland management, poor water quality, road traffic collisions, and persecution. There are also concerns about the underlying status of many of the natural habitats on which these species rely. Priorities for mammal conservation and research differ across species but the impacts of alien invasive species and climate change will need particular focus.
25536975|The following foraminifera occur, accompanied by ostracods and other microfossils: Ammodiscus asper (Terquem), Marginulina bergquisti Tappan, M. prima d'Orbigny, Marginulina spp., Frondicularia lustrata Tappan, F. sulcata Bornemann, Nodosaria radiata (Terquem), Lingulina tenera Bornemann, Lenticulina sp., Planularia sp., and Dentalina sp. On the basis of variants within the species L. tenera and F. sulcata it is considered that a stratigraphic level within the zone of Schlotheimia angulata is represented.
25536323|The BSBI Monitoring Scheme was a sample hectad (10-km square) survey of Britain and Ireland set up to assess changes in the vascular plant flora since 1960. To assess change in Ireland, records collected during 1987 and 1988 were compared against historical records and data collected for the Atlas of the British flora. At least 19 per cent of the flora was found to have changed significantly (11 per cent decrease, 8 per cent increase). Tables showing species which have changed in frequency and selected maps are presented. The major trends suggest that plants of calcareous grasslands, open grasslands, unimproved grasslands, the coast and arable weeds have declined, whilst introduced species have increased.
25538109|Ectopsocus petersi sp. n. is described and Caecilius rhenanus Tetens and Elipsocus mclachlani Kimmins are recorded for the first time from Ireland. Seventy new county records are given together with a summary of published records on a county basis.
41419113|A National Frog Survey oflreknd is planned for spring 2011. We conducted a pilot survey of 25 water bodies in ten 0.25 km survey squares in Co. Mayo during spring 2010. Drainage ditches were the most commonly available site for breeding and, generally, two 100 m stretches of ditch were surveyed in each square. The restricted period for peak spawning activity renders any methodology utilizing only one site visit inherently risky. Consequently, each site was visited three times from late March to early April. Occurrence of spawn declined significantly from 72 % to 44 % between the first and third visit whilst the overall occurrence of spawn at all sites was 76 %. As the breeding season advanced, spawn either hatched or was predated and, therefore, disappeared. In those water bodies where spawning was late, however, greater densities of spawn were deposited than in those sites where breeding was early. Consequently, spawn density and estimated frog density did not differ significantly between site visits. Future surveys should nevertheless include multiple site visits to avoid biased estimation of species occurrence and distribution. Ecological succession was identified as the main threat present at 44 % of sites.
20764465|Mysis relicta is a glacial relict crustacean species of the Mysidacea order. It was recorded during this study from Lough Allen in the upper Shannon catchment, Ireland. A total number of 45 individual organisms were recorded from four vertical tows. This is a new record for this species, previously known in Ireland from only five lakes, namely Lough Ree, Lough Derg, Lough Corrib, Lough Neagh and Lough Erne.
25536637|The Northern colletes bee, Colletes floralis Eversmann, is a UK Biodiversity Action Plan priority species, last recorded in Northern Ireland in 1933. During July and August 2003, the RSPB organized a survey of potential areas of habitat along northern and eastern coasts of Northern Ireland. The bee was re-discovered at 4 sites, all on the northern coast. Bees were observed at burrows and the identity of a voucher specimen was confirmed. They occurred at lower densities than at sites in Scotland and are very vulnerable. Site managers have been provided with management recommendations for each site visited.
25536388|The badgers of Coney Island are described, along with details of their setts, territories, social groups, latrines, above ground beds, and movements. The badgers are lighter then mainland badgers, and all except one have white noses. The implications of this and other studies on islands for badger management, in particular in relation to a vaccine for tuberculosis, are discussed.
25536348|At least 1000 auks drowned in fishing nets in east Cork in January and February 1983. Of these, 274 guillemots and 259 razorbills were examined and were found to be in good body condition with no signs of emaciation. The presence of sprat shoals is believed to be the reason why so many auks congregated close to shore. Biometric data and details of plumage state are given.
41419114|Records are presented of two snail-killing flies (Diptera, Sciomyzidae) new to Ireland: Sciomyza simplex Falln, 1820 and Sciomyza testacea Macquart, 1835. The identification and habitat associations of these species are discussed, and a key to the identification of European Sciomyza species is presented.
24394124|Pellets of Short-eared Owl from Ireland are described. The size and shape of pellets varied considerably, but was similar to those described in other studies. Pellets within the same size range were cast regardless of the prey species consumed. Pellets contained up to eleven small prey items, but the mean ranged from 1.12 to 2.71 depending on the prey species. There was evidence that small bird prey (i.e. wren, goldcrest, long-tailed tit) was taken while roosting communally. There was no firm evidence that Short-eared Owls digested bone from their prey during winter, but bird skulls were likely to be crushed by muscular action during pellet formation. Best total prey count results can be obtained for Dunlin by counting a combination of the humerus and metatarsus, for Snipe and Redshank by counting the furcula, together with leg, wing and head parts, but this probably still underestimates the true total by 10 per cent in both species. Best results for thrushes and small passerines can be obtained by using a combination of distinctive feathers, bills, humerus and leg parts. Best results for small mammals can be obtained by using skulls and lower jaw bones, but for rats a combination of all available bones must be used, although perhaps leading to an under count of 10 per cent. There was evidence that owls fed selectively on body parts of large prey, and that many bones of such prey were either not consumed or were fragmented, thus lowering counts in dietary studies. Counts of different skeletal parts present in bird prey are given, and the number of damaged and undamaged dunlin bones are tabulated.
25536808|Juniper is one of only three conifers native to Ireland and is a Northern Ireland Priority Species for conservation concern. To inform some of the basic requirements of the Species Action Plan, a survey of juniper in Northern Ireland was undertaken in 2005. Juniper plants were located at 22 of 34 (65%) previously-recorded sites. Most plants were on high, steep slopes or inaccessible coastal cliffs. The prostrate growth form was most prevalent (84% of plants), though a few erect plants were found in Co Fermanagh and the Mourne Mountains, Co Down. Juniper plants in Northern Ireland are largely senescent with little evidence of berries or recent recruitment. Some seedlings were identified in the Mourne Mountains, where there was also the most evidence of recent growth. The well-documented declines in juniper populations elsewhere in the UK and Europe are likely to be similar in Northern Ireland. The location and growth forms of plants indicate that grazing pressure is the principal constraint on plant growth and survival.
25536687|In this paper, eight species are added to the Irish sawfly fauna: Ardis pallipes, Claremontia uncta, Eutomostethus nigrans, Euura weiffenbachii, Hoplocampa ariae, Phyllocolpa scotaspis, Scolioneura vicina and Tenthredopsis scutellaris. New records of species previously only very rarely found in Ireland are also included.
24394430|A survey on the oribatid (Acari, Oribatida) and gamasid mite (Acari, Gamasida) communities inhabiting arboreal habitats (epiphytic mats in the canopy, branches and moss growing at the bases of the trunks) as well as edaphic moss, was carried out in a native oak wood (Quercus petraea) and a native yew forest (Taxus baccata) located in Killarney National Park The structure and composition of the assemblages occurring in the arboreal niches were compared with those present both in the forest floor and in the trunk bases. Almost 2000 individuals, representing 50 oribatid and 15 gamasid species were recovered in the survey. The genus Ommatocepheus Berlese, 1913 is recorded for the first time in Ireland together with the species O. ocellatus (Michael, 1882) as well as three oribatid species: Campachipteria petiti (Trav, 1960), Steganacarus (S.) michaeli Bernini and Avanzati, 1987, and Tectocepheus minor Berlese, 1903. In the oak forest, 15 of the 43 (34.8 %) oribatid species recovered in this stand were unique to arboreal habitats (canopy and trunk) not occurring at the sampled floor, while within the arboreal habitat 5 of these 15 (33 %) species occurred exclusively in the aerial parts. In the yew forest, 21 of the 35 (60 %) oribatid species, were exclusively collected in arboreal niches and within there, 6 of the 21 (28.5 %) species were exclusively collected in the canopy but did not occur at the trunk bases. The fauna inhabiting the canopy (branches) was similar for both forestry stands but clearly distinct from the faunas of the various moss habitats. In addition, those assemblages from arboreal moss habitats were distinctive from the ones at the ground moss in the oak wood stand, showing that assemblages inhabiting the cover epiphyte of the lower trunk are not a subset of the ones in the floor. Diversity was higher in the moss on the soil surface and trunk in the oak woods than in the same habitats in the yew.
24393868|The Slipper Limpet (Crepidula fornicata) was recently found in Northern Irish waters at Belfast Lough during 2009. We compared two techniques for estimating individual age; enumeration of exterior shell check marks (growth bands) and an acetate-peel to enumerate interior shell check marks. Estimates of maximum age based on exterior marks suggested a maximum of 10 year classes whilst interior marks suggested a maximum of 7 year classes (excluding the growth band at settlement). It seems likely that Slipper Limpets arrived in Belfast Lough during or after 2001. Shell size was a good proxy of estimated age suggesting it may represent a 'rapid assessment' method for ageing. The acetate-peel technique is useful in enumerating interior check marks.
25536844|Records of pine martens in Northern Ireland spanning 150 years were collated and 57 forests were surveyed for scats in 2004. Pine martens were historically more widely distributed than at present. Pine marten scats were found at 11 (19%) sites in Fermanagh, Tyrone, Antrim and Down. At a further 9 (15%) sites, morphologically similar fox and stoat scats were found, while the remaining 38 (66%) sites contained no scats attributed to martens. The forests of Fermanagh and Tyrone remain strongholds, but anecdotal evidence suggests the species is still present in other localities where scats were not found.
20764459|The nematode Daniconema anguillae Moravec and Kie 1987, not previously recorded in the British Isles, was found in European Eel (Anguilla anguilla (L.)) in Western Ireland. The possibility that this parasite species may be more widespread in Europe, but undetected, is discussed.
20764411|Payment records for birds and mammals killed as vermin in Co. Antrim, covering nearly 30 years in the 18th century, have been discovered and are presented in this paper. This new source adds to the likelihood that Red Kites were present, and probably throughout the year, in this area of Ireland. Other birds killed include other raptors, Crows, Cormorants and Herons. Mammals killed included Rats, 'Weasels', a single Fox and 501 Otters.
24394184|In recent years, the emergence of the discipline of 'landscape genetics' has proved to be a vital tool in quantifying the effects of landscape features (both natural and man-made) on gene flow in animal species. We applied this methodology to red deer in Killarney National Park (KNP), Co. Kerry, to infer possible barriers to gene flow. Bayesian analysis revealed the presence of two distinct genetic clusters, present on either side of Lough Leane. We discuss possible barriers to gene flow and the management implications of this for red deer in KNP and the wider implications of using landscape genetics in Irish mammalian research.
25537706|A newly exposed roadcut of unusually soft chalk near Whitepark Bay, County Antrim, contains an abundant fauna of Cretaceous foraminifera similar to that described by McGugan (1957). In addition the following species occur and enable precise stratigraphic dating of the deposit as late Campanian to early Maestrichtian:- Bolivinoides decorata australis Edgell, B. delicatulus regularis Reiss, B.. sidestrandensis Barr, B. cf. peterssoni Brotzen, Neoflabellina aff, numismalis (Wedekind), Osangularia lens Brotzen, Eponides cf. concinna Brotzen, Gavelinella thalmanni Brotzen, Lagena acuticosta Reuss, Praebulimina obtusa (d'Orbigny) Cibicides excavata Brotzen, Pyramidina (Reussella) cf. cuschmani (Brotzen), Pseudouvigerina cristata (Marsson), Rugoglobigerina sp. and Globotruncana spp. including G. tricarinata (Quereau), and Globigerinelloides messinae (Brnnimann). The deposit also contains abundant specimens of the problematical form Palinosphaera (?) sphaerica (Kaufmann) as well as ostracodes, fragments of bryozoa, echinoid spines and sponge spicules. While no definite explanation of the unusual softness of the chalk can be established it seems likely to be another derived deposit resulting from post-Cretaceous erosion prior to the extrusion of the overlying Tertiary basalt flows.
25537866|In 1973 Lamprothamnium papulosum (Wallroth) J. Groves (Characeae) was found in Ireland for the first time. Its history as a member of the British flora is discussed here together with a description of the species and some comment on its ecology, with a view to reviving interest in the Characeae, and the possible location of other populations of this species.
25536491|An investigation was carried out on the sponge fauna inhabiting a semi-submerged temperate sea cave at Lough Hyne Marine Nature Reserve, Ireland. The number of each sponge species was recorded at 0.25m vertical intervals (from the high water spring mark to the floor of the cave) at 5m horizontal intervals from the entrance to the back of the cave. Thirty three species of sponge were reported from the cave, the majority of which exhibited encrusting or massive morphologies (shapes). Distribution plots were constructed for the ten most abundant sponge species found within the cave. Many of the species showed zonation patterns in response to vertical depth and horizontal distance into the cave. The study of the sponge fauna in this cave provided further evidence for the mechanisms controlling sponge distributions both inside and outside of caves. These mechanisms include competition for space with algae (controlled by light), aerial exposure and the effect of surge generated flow rate. However, separating or ranking these effects may be difficult (as well as others not considered). The sponge species found within this cave system were very similar to those found locally on the undersides of loose rocks with encrusting and massive morphologies dominating. Similar biological and physical factors may be structuring both loose rock and cave communities that may account for the commonality in sponge assemblages.
41419117|Mink (Mustela vison) carcasses collected from control programmes throughout Ireland examined for cranial helminths; Skrjabingylus spp. (Nematoda) and Troglo trema acutum (Trematoda). Two methods of determining infection were used: external examination of and the necropsy of fresh material. In total 157 mink were examined. External examination of the skulls did not reveal any damage characteristic of infection with cranial helminths. Twenty-one per cent of necropsied mink sinuses contained Skrjanbingylus nasicola, with a low intensity of infection, a mean of 5.33 ( 2.11) worms per infected animal
20764413|Knopper Galls, which adversely affect acorns of native oaks, are caused by the non-native invasive wasp Andricus quercuscalicis. The wasp requires Quercus cerris (Turkey Oak) as an alternate host, and the gall has been known in Ireland since at least 1991, chiefly in the south and east. The first records of the Knopper Gall in Co. Limerick, at some 25 lowland sites in fifteen 10 km squares, are presented. The galls were found in 2006 and 2007 on young and old Q. robur (Pedunculate Oak) and on Q.  rosacea, intermediates between Q. robur and Q. petraea (Sessile Oak); Knopper Galls were not found on Q. petraea. The Artichoke Gall, caused by the native wasp Andricus fecundator, is widespread in Ireland. Previously known in Co. Limerick only from Adare, records are given for it occurring sparingly at four sites in the county on Q. petraea and at one site on Q.  rosacea in 2007.
25536503|A sample of 101 witch Glyptocephalus cynoglossus was collected from the port of Rossaveal, Co Galway, on two different days in February 1999 and March 2000. A number of morphological characteristics were measured and the fish were examined meristically. The fish ranged in size from 24.5 to 36.9cm total length and a head length / total length ratio of 0.125 ( s.d. of 0.009) was recorded. Fin ray range for the dorsal, anal, caudal, pectoral and pelvic fins was determined, as well as the number of gill rakers. Mean numbers of 5.9 pelvic fin rays. 10.8 pectoral fin rays, and 10.85 gill rakers were recorded.
25535943|Between 1986 and 1989, the age structure and growth of thick-lipped grey mullet in Strangford Lough were studied. Due to secondary growth, obscuring the innermost annuli, ages estimated from scales had to be corrected by constructing a length-frequency plot of back-calculated lengths at formation of the innermost visible annuli. A comparision with the otolith ages of a subsample enabled the accurate determination of all ages from scales. The parameters of a von Bertalanffy Curve calculated from the data was found to have the values of 609.42mm. 0.119 and -0.416yr for
24393864|In 1810, the orchid Spiranthes romanzoffiana Chamisso, 1828 was discovered for the first time outside North America, at Castletown Bearhaven in west Co. Cork (H3) in Ireland. Well-known botanists visited this remote area to see the plant, armed with introductions to the local General Practitioner, Dr Philip Andrew Armstrong, who knew its whereabouts. This remained its only known site outside North America until it was found in 1873 and 1874 at two new sites also in Co. Cork.
20764509|Previous analysis of Irish Y-chromosome and mtDNA highlighted a genetic affinity among populations along the Atlantic Faade of Europe. However more recent studies, involving 10 000 genome wide SNP markers appear to show the Irish are typical of other Northern Europeans (such as the Germans, Polish and English). These results suggest that the Irish genome may be a mosaic of regions derived from different migrations and other population demographic events. Selection is one of these processes and is likely to have influenced specific genes in different Europeans populations. As illustration have investigated the signature of selection at the lactase gene in a novel Irish and previously published Italian population. The ability to digest milk into adulthood, which some variants of the lactase gene allow, is thought to have been selected with the advent of dairy economy in Europe. We observe in the Irish evidence of a more extended haplotype flanking both sides of the variants associated with the lactase persistence trait than in the southern European populations. Our results illustrate again that different parts of the genome will have been influenced by different events.
25537812|Extensive shell mounds within the Magilligan dunes are thought to have been formed by high levels of wave energy. There is no field evidence to suggest the mounds are of recent human origin.
25536870|The Irish drosophilid fauna is reviewed. A total of 30 species is now known from the island. New county records are included.
24394123|The taxonomic status of the Irish endemic Hieracium hesperium P.D. Sell (Asteraceae, section Stelligera) has been reviewed. Very little information is available about it and there are few herbarium specimens available. Comparison of the specimens collected in 1891, 1954 and 2006-2009 and cultivated material indicate that plants referable to H. hesperium occur in two sites. However, H. hesperium forms part of the variation within the H. subrubicundum/H. rubicundiforme group and cannot be clearly separated from them in Ireland. Further studies are needed to resolve the identity of the Irish plants, but meanwhile it can be concluded that the maintenance of H. hesperium as a separate species cannot be supported and that it cannot be considered to be a distinct Irish endemic. A lectotype is designated for for H. scoticum var. occidentale F. Hanbury, the name on which H. hesperium is based.
41419035|Twelve fly species are formally added to the Irish list of Diptera, from six families: Mycetophilidae, Sciaridae, Psychodidae, Scatopsidae, Ceratopogonidae, Dolichopodidae. The sites are historic demesnes across five counties of Northern Ireland.
25539796|The status of the marsh fritillary in Ireland is re-assessed, based on comparison between pre and post 1980 distribution data and consideration of what is now known of the biology of this butterfly in Ireland. It is concluded that E. aurinia cannot realistically be regarded as a threatened species in Ireland but that man-induced habitat loss and habitat modification which have caused its decrease elsewhere in Europe are occurring in Ireland. It is recommended that consideration be given to protection of the few Irish sites supporting very large populations of this species, currently regarded as internationally threatened. Attention is drawn to the need for better data on present site management where large populations occur in Ireland and for more information on the controlling effects of predation and parasitization. It is suggested that re-assessment of the international status of this species would be appropriate.
41419211|A review of the known Irish inquiline Cynipidae is given. A total of thirteen species is record from Ireland. New distributional data are presented.
25536171|An oil spill in Cork Harbour in November 1997 killed a minimum of 1524 birds of 17 species. Nearly 91 per cent of these were guillemots and just under 5 per cent were gannets. Two grey seals and one otter also died.
25536506|Lebia cruxminor is an attractive but extremely rare beetle in Ireland, with only three known records. The most recent find has not been fully reported before now and this situation may have led to inaccurate statements in the literature. The purpose of this article is to formally document the precise details of the 1992 record and to discuss the habitat associations of the beetle, particularly from the point of view of its conservation needs.
24394425|Baseline data on ranging behaviour in badgers was obtained using Global Positioning System (GPS) tracking collars on 18 animals. Despite low capture rates, the data demonstrated that these badgers were not disturbed into dispersal by trapping. Many were retrapped frequently, suggesting low stress associated with the trapping process. The badgers had clear territories, but differed markedly in their territory use and ranging behaviour among individuals and at different times of the year. The study represents the preliminary findings of the largest study of badger movements in Ireland to date, and the first to use remote satellite tracking technology.
25536848|Species richness, equitability and diversity of oribatid mite communities were investigated in moss and soil profiles from a young Sitka spruce stand in Co Laois. Despite the great abundance, the richness was lower than the values found in native conifer systems from Canada and equitability measures showed strong dominance in the communities. The Gamasida species found were all widespread typical woodland fauna. The geographic distribution is given for each oribatid species indicating that assemblages are almost totally characterized by holarctic and widespread species. We present three first records of oribatids for Ireland: Inigozetes reticulatus (Prez-igo, 1969), Ramusella (Insculptoppia) elliptica (Berlese, 1908) and Medioppia subpectinata (Oudemans, 1900).
25536759|The reproductive biology of Mysella bidentata was investigated over the period September 1994-November 1995 at two stations in Kinsale Harbour, south coast of Ireland. In total 440 specimens were aged using growth-ring analysis and histologically sectioned. Gametogenesis and spawning activity displayed a time lag of one to several months between stations. Temporal differences in the reproductive cycle decreased as animals aged, with older animals displaying greater synchrony between sites. Gonad maturity indices recorded maximum values at both stations between June and July 1995, followed by a sharp decline indicating concurrent spawning. Gametogenic activity and gonad maturation began earlier in the older age classes and was apparently influenced by ambient temperatures. The timing of the reproductive cycle of M. bidentata in the present work reflected previous studies in Kinsale and other locations, and displayed a general synchronicity over a relatively wide geographic range.
24394128|Populations of European Eel Anguilla anguilla were sampled in two adjacent lakes, Doon Lough Upper and Doon Lough Lower, using earthworm-baited longlines that were deployed using a novel grid-sampling protocol. Minimum estimates of eel density and biomass were obtained. Analysis of these catch statistics and eel size frequencies indicated that the two lakes differed, with the lower lake having higher density but smaller eels than the upper lake, though biomass was similar in the two systems. The invasive, swim-bladder infecting, Asian nematode parasite Anguillicoloides crassus was present in both eel populations and the infection parameters recorded were similar.
25536493|The seed of 14 legally protected vascular plant species was targeted for collection. Over 30 sites were visited with a greater than 50% success rate in relocating species from previous records. Seed was collected from seven of the species; however, only two species yielded adequate seed numbers for a complete base collection. Three other species have the potential to have their collections bulked in future years. Observations on the current status of the species with regards to climatic and management conditions are discussed.
25536205|The Irish gall-inducing Cecidomyiidae are reviewed. A check-list of the known species is provided. Their cecidomyiid inquilines and predators are included. Data on distributions and plant hosts are also given.
20764521|New records of Irish Pteromalidae (Hymenoptera: Chalcidoidea) are presented including seven additions to the Irish fauna: Gastrancistrus fulvicornis (Walker, 1874), Gastrancistrus fulvicoxis Graham, 1969, Gastrancistrus glabellus (Nees, 1834), Gastrancistrus oporinus Graham, 1969, Lamprotatus (Skeloceras) brevicornis Thomson, 1876, Lamprotatus (Skeloceras) truncatus (Fonscolombe, 1832) and Seladerma diffine (Walker, 1833).
25536642|A survey for presence of otters Lutra lutra was undertaken in Cork City (Ireland) over 18 months (2003-2004). Presence of otters has been by sightings and road casualties, and was confirmed by the finding of spraints (otter faeces), holts (otter dens), foot-prints, trails, slides and rest sites. Otters are present throughout the urban area, but there were foci of activity and four holts are present. Breeding may occur within the City. Concerns about threats from road casualties, toxins, oil spills, dogs, and the changes occurring in the management of sewage, are discussed.
20764462|23 species of the microwasp subfamily Platygastrinae, parasitoids in eggs and larvae of gall midges, are recorded from Ireland for the first time. Two of the species, Platygaster hibernica and Synopeas hibernicum, are described as new to science.
25536615|Endoparasite assemblages in yellow eels (N=18) sampled in 1996 from Lough Ardan and in migrating silver eels (N=45) in 1995 from Assaroe Lake, in the River Erne system, were analyzed. The eleven helminth taxa recorded were: Acanthocephalus anguillae, Acanthocephalus lucii, Camallanus lacustris, Paraquimperia tenerrima, unidentified larval nematodes, Diplostomum gasterostei, Diplostomum spathaceum, Crepidostomum farionis, Sphaerostoma bramae, Proteocephalus macrocephalus, Bothriocephalus claviceps. Details of the prevalences and intensities of infection of these parasites in the eel samples are presented and discussed, with reference to the influence of biogeographic and ecological factors that appear to account for the variation in the parasite infra-communities and component-communities of the eels examined.
25537790|Reddened rocks are described from strata of Upper Dalradian age in north-eastern Inishowen. The field occurrence of the reddened strata suggests a diversity of origin whilst their association, at least locally, with thick feldspar conglomerates is considered to be significant, and must indicate either temporary shallowing or strongly oxidizing conditions in the depositional area.
25536033|The results of a study of the spider fauna of the Irish floodplains are presented. The two sampled sites appeared to be equally rich in species but distinctly different in numbers of specimens trapped and thus in densities of the populations of the species. It is also clearly demonstrated that the activities of the spiders (numbers of specimens trapped) is much higher in June that in August. Among the 63 species recorded for the two sites, both of which are situated in Co Offaly, 33 are new county records and one is new to Ireland.
24394187|Using a variety of methods, Bat Conservation Ireland directs yearly monitoring of five of Ireland's bat species. This paper focuses on the All-Ireland Daubenton's Bat Waterways Survey that has involved the first large-scale recruitment of members of the public to a bat monitoring scheme in Ireland. Since 2006 it has grown to include yearly participation by over 400 individuals, many of whom had no prior experience in bats or bat survey methods. This paper looks at the process of volunteer recruitment, training and support used by Bat Conservation Ireland. In addition, in order to validate results collected by volunteers, trials using broadband time expansion detectors were carried out. A comparison of results from time expansion detectors, with sonograms analyzed by a bat specialist, and the results collected by volunteers using heterodyne detectors, shows a high degree of correlation. Consequently, it is concluded that volunteers carrying out the Daubenton's bat survey work are providing robust data on Daubenton's bat occurrence along Irish waterways. We also discuss the cost savings to the two administrations (Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland) by using volunteers and the additional unquantifiable benefits in generating positive publicity for bats and conservation.
25536240|Surveillance of national lake water quality can be a major logistical problem. Ireland has more lakes per square kilometre than any other member of the European Union. This poses particular problems for water quality managers. Only some 30-40 lakes in the state have been studied in any detail and possibly only 250 lakes have had even the most cursory scientific examination. There is therefore an urgent need for a more comprehensive national survey of lakes. The aim of this paper is to place on record the results from physico-chemical analyses of 94 lakes in Cos Donegal, Sligo, Mayo, Galway, Kerry and Wicklow. This work was undertaken as part of an E.U. sponsored remote sensing project, the objective of which was to develop calibrated inversion schemes for the estimation of chlorophyll content in Irish lakes. Physico-chemical results varied greatly between lakes, often reflecting changes in catchment geology. However, following application of cluster analysis to the dataset, it was revealed the 86 per cent of the lakes were closely linked in terms of their physico-chemical characteristics. A further 6 per cent exhibited a reduced level of similarity, while the remaining 8 per cent were disparate, showing no statistical similarity with any other lake sampled. The data presented should be useful to those involved in Irish limnological investigations.
20764522|The presence of two crustacean species new to Ireland was noted at a location in Malahide Marina during a biodiversity survey. Biota was collected from the sides of concrete pontoons lying immediately below the water line. All species present were fixed and then identified to species level. Two species Paradoxostoma angliorum and Monocorophium acherusicum were noted as new to Ireland.
24394429|This paper describes a robust emergence trap that may be used in the field to capture insects emerging from dung substrates, whilst maintaining the specimens intact for identification.
20764504|Ireland after the last ice age had a mammal fauna dominated by predators. This gave rise to what has been called the 'prey gap' and such gaps have been focus for research efforts worldwide. The gap would have been especially important for specialist mammalian predators of mammals such as the wolf, lynx and Irish stoat and the likelihood of non-mammal prey filling this gap is examined. As a community how did these predators survive without rabbits, rats, shrews, voles or deer? This paper explores the mammalian fauna in terms of access to prey, estimated numbers and then biomass to see if the ecosystem could maintain this community.
41419033|The molluscan collections held in the Natural History Division of the National Museum of Ireland represent an excellent collection of the worldwide marine mollusc fauna. A recent project of collections' improvement in partnership with University College Dublin has uncovered new and exciting information about the seashell collections and dramatically improved the accessibility of this collection for researchers. The collection includes more than 15 500 shell 'lots', of which approximately one-third of material was never previously accessioned or documented by the museum. The holdings include significant material from 19th century collectors and exploring expeditions, as well as continuous growth from modern scientists.
25536082|Lighthouse Island (J5985, H38), at the mouth of Belfast Lough, is now a site for the study of migrating and breeding birds (the Copeland Bird Observatory). A survey has been made of the lichen flora of the island and a checklist of 114 species is provided with a brief site description.
25536113|A list of 58 spider species occurring at Pollardstown Fen, Co Kildare, is presented, 52 of which were collected during a recent inventory. Two species are new to Ireland, viz. Pirata tenuitarsis Simon and Centromerus levitarsis (Simon), while 17 species are new to Co Kildare. This superficial inventory of the spider fauna demonstrates the biological importance of the reserve.
20764506|The issue of where, when and for how long a land-bridge or land-bridges, existed between Britain and Ireland at the end of the Ice Age may not be problematical as far as birds and other flying animals such as bats (Mammalia: Chiroptera) and insects (Arthropoda: Insecta) are concerned. Other constraints will have operated (and continue to operate) in limiting the richness of the avifauna of Ireland and in defining its composition. These include the 'Island Effect' - that is the influence of insularity at both the broad biogeographical level (i.e. in terms of limiting species richness through area effects) and in relation to the evolution of life histories (e.g.. the dipper Cinclus cinclus hibernicus which has a lower clutch size, fewer broods per year and higher postfledging survival than populations in Britain and the continent In addition the effect of man appears to have been severe in altering the availability of particular habitats e.g.. destruction of native woodland and the creation of massive areas of open grassland that favour species such as the rook Corvus frugilegus. Nevertheless, the avifauna of Irish woodlands contains at least two apparently distinctive subspecies namely the coal tit Parus ater hibernicus and the jay Garrulus glandarius hibernicus. In addition the fauna of Ireland contains two classical boreal species namely the hooded crow Corvus cornix and the mountain or Irish hare Lepus timidus hibernicus, both of which are widely distributed throughout the island. These and other taxa including for example, some plants and insects, suggest a marked qualitative (species richness) and quantitative (distributional) presence of boreal elements in the biodiversity of Ireland. An important question therefore, is whether or not the explanation for the survival of the boreal element in the island's biodiversity is primarily historical (i.e.. due to the severing of a land-bridge with Britain early in the post-glacial re-colonization process) or dynamic (i.e.. indicating an eco-physiological adaptation to an environment whose conditions have partly persisted from, or are equivalent to, those prevailing during post-glacial times)? This question is addressed from the perspective of the climate regime in Ireland and the relative abundance of terrestrial birds in Ireland, the migratory tendency of bird species in this country and the known reproductive biology of selected avian species. While the failure of the carrion crow Corvus corone and the introduced brown hare Lepus europeas, to successfully displace the hooded crow and mountain hare respectively, from Ireland, suggests a dynamic explanation; the relatively low clutch size of some terrestrial birds in Ireland is perhaps the opposite of what would have been predicted. The results of this investigation are discussed in the context of a possible glacial refugium, behavioural ecology including island effects, and a winter climate which continues to be dominated by heavy precipitation and high average wind speeds.
20764417|The Irish Platygastridae are reviewed by O'Connor et al. (2004). A total of 65 species are known from Ireland, representing over 41 per cent of the British fauna. Recently while visiting the National Museum of Ireland, PNB examined a large collection of Irish Platygastridae collected by JPOC and M.A. O'Connor. The material was identified using Buhl (1999, 2006) and Vlug (1985). This paper reports 17 species new to the Irish fauna and records of other rare species. Unless otherwise stated, the Irish distributional data are taken from O'Connor et al. (2004). Voucher specimens have been presented to the National Museum of Ireland.
41419115|A high density island population of badgers, 27.5 adults km, is described. The methods in the study to capture, anaesthetize and identify badgers, as well as to map territories, detailed. The island had eight main setts and six territories. One territory had three main two of which had small sub-territories. Badgers captured in the initial study, and those dead from 1998-2007, are detailed. The finding of badgers without tuberculosis which unwell (emaciated, with heavy ectoparasite infestations), in buildings is recorded. The implications for badger research and disease management are discussed.
24394186|During 2008 an intensive study of the habitat use of hedgehogs took place in a lowland mixed agricultural landscape in Co. Cork. Fourteen animals were tagged, comprising of nine males and five females. These hedgehogs had a density of 3.07 per hectare (ha) with their activity centred on a 15 ha arable field. A survey of the ground fauna revealed a variation in invertebrate availability throughout this area. Hedgehog activity was concentrated where potential prey was most abundant. There was a seasonal shift in habitat use, with hedgehogs occupying pasture in the early part of the study period, arable land in autumn and scrub once the animals began to enter hibernation.
20764520|In about 1911, a dozen American Grey Squirrels were introduced to Castle Forbes, Co. Longford. By 1997, the population had extended its range to much of Ulster, Leinster and north Tipperary. A distribution survey was conducted to map its more recent range expansion. Grey Squirrels are now widespread in Cos. Wicklow, Wexford, south Kilkenny and south Tipperary, with isolated reports from Cos. Waterford, Cork and Limerick. They are spreading into Co. Donegal, with occasional sightings west of the Shannon. Consideration should be given to establishing a very large conifer forest in west Galway/Mayo that could be managed for both Red Squirrel conservation and commercial forestry.
25536401|A male and a female Irish mountain hare Lepus timidus hibemicus, Bell were radio-collared and tracked over a 12 month period. Resting and feeding were the two most frequent behaviours accounting for 41 and 29 percent of the hares' time. Being alert and moving were the next two most frequent behaviours accounting for 9.5 and 7.9 percent of the hares' time. The hares spent most of the day resting (94.8%) and most of the night feeding (53.7%). Time of day and time of year significantly affected activity budgets of the animals.
20764455|The migrant adult Red Admiral butterfly was observed to successfully overwinter and breed in sheltered areas on Howth Peninsula, Co. Dublin. Eggs, larvae and pupae were monitored from November to May on the larval food plant, the Common Nettle.
24394188|The analysis of ancient DNA from archaeological and paleontological samples has the potential to answer questions about the past directly, thus providing a temporal aspect to modern genetic studies. Ancient DNA has been extracted from over 80 bone and teeth samples, from seven mammalian species located across the Republic of Ireland, and dating to between 40 000 and 500 years. The limiting factor to success is the quality of the starting material and, whereas the age of the sample is not correlated to DNA survival, temperature does appear to be a crucial factor. The highest success rate was in material from cave sites, which exhibit the cold and dry depositional conditions that are best suited to long-term survival of ancient DNA.
24394424|Records of immigrant and other notable moths and butterflies in 2009 are summarized for the island of Ireland, including five moth species new to Ireland.
25536526|This is the first account of the diet of lemon sole in Irish waters. 207 fish were examined for their gut contents from Galway Bay between the period March 1978 and September 1979. The results of the study show that polychaetes were the most important food item. Amphipods were of secondary importance, with molluscs, decapods and fish of minor importance.
25536270|Records are given for sixteen uncommon millipede species in the northern counties of Ireland, 31 of these being new vice-county records. Nopoiulus kochii is added to the Irish list from Belfast, and an account is given of the distinguishing features and known Irish distribution of Anamastigona pulchellum Silvestri, a chordeumatid millipede native to southern Italy. The latter is known as a naturalised introduction to four localities in Co Down and one in Co Antrim and constitutes an addition to the fauna of north-west Europe.
25535906|A collection of Aplysia made by the late Dr Henning Lemche has been examined and the identity of some of the specimens corrected. The distribution of Aplysia species around the British Isles is discussed.
25536247|A dietary analysis was conducted on 144 specimens of Scyliorhinus canicula, caught with commercial bottom-trawl equipment from the Galway Bay area in July and November 1994. Crustaceans were the most commonly recorded prey, but polychaetes, teleosts, and echinoderms were also important in the diet. A total of 15 prey species was identified.
41419037|William Thompson was a Belfast-born naturalist and author of the important four-volume work The natural history of Ireland. This provided the first comprehensive overview of the distribution of the fauna of Ireland and was one of the earliest biogeographical studies in this part of the world. Many records were collected first-hand by Thompson while others were given to him by his contemporaries.
20764414|A comprehensive revision of the marine ostracod genus Paradoxostoma Fischer in British waters by Horne and Whittaker (1985) provided clear diagnoses and illustrations of the species which might be found. Two of the species, Paradoxostoma fleetense and P. robinhoodi, described in that paper, were not noted from Ireland and their occurrence is recorded for the first time here.
25536688|This is the first account of the diet of common sole in Irish waters. Gut contents of 410 fish were analyzed between April 1978 and September 1979. Polychaetes and amphipods were the principal components; molluscs and decapods were of minor importance.
20764457|Irish Systenus alpinus Vaillant are reassessed as the recently described Systenus mallochi MacGowan.
25536173|A detailed survey of potential bat roosts, both in summer and winter was undertaken in an area of 225km in North Co Clare in 1995. All bat species were sought, with a particular emphasis on the lesser horseshoe bat Rhinolophus hipposideros (Bechstein). The results confirm that North Clare is an important area for lesser horseshoe bats, with 990 bats counted in 24 summer roosts and 165 bats in winter roosts. In addition, 1503 individuals of other bat species were recorded in 52 summer roosts in the study area.
25536389|Vegetation, water and soil analyses were carried out along six transects in Scragh Bog, a fen in Co Westmeath, Ireland. The N and P plant tissue concentrations were higher in the buffer zone and the vegetation composition indicated eutraphent species. The available P-concentration in the soil and the N and P concentrations in water were increased in the border zone compared to the central fen samples. This eutrophic border zone is c 5m wide, which appears to be a natural width for this buffer zone. Rapidly growing grasses profit the most from this increase in nutrient availability, but the availability of N is still limiting plant growth. There is no direct threat to the rare fen communities with the present adjacent land use.
25536492|The first Irish occurrences of three dragonfly species, Anax imperator, Anax parthenope and Aeshna mixta, and an influx of Sympetrum fonscolombii in 2000 are documented. Occurrences of all four species in 2001 and 2002 are described, including proof of breeding of Anax imperator and Aeshna mixta. These records are discussed in the context of trends in north-west Europe and presented as circumstantial evidence for the impact of global warming on an element of the Irish fauna.
25536776|Three species of Hydrochus (Coleoptera: Hydrochidae) are recognized from Ireland. One species, H. angustatus, is believed to be extinct. Records of the other two, H. brevis and H. ignicollis, are reviewed, with H. brevis newly-found in the Republic of Ireland.
25536806|The feral ferret Mustela putorius furo is the most recent mammal to be introduced to Ireland. A survey between 1997 and 2001 to determine their distribution recorded them in parts of Cos Monaghan, Tyrone and Armagh. Further work is needed to monitor their range, their health, and their potential impact on native fauna, particularly endangered ground nesting birds.
25536611|A rural badger population was studied from 1990 to 1994, using sett surveys, bait marking and trapping. The population declined, due mainly to road casualties and persecution, from 29 animals in six territories in 1990, to five animals without territories in 1994. There was an unexpected elasticity in some of the territories, and territoriality ceased at a density of less than one badger per km. The implications for badger surveys, and for the problem of transmission of bovine tuberculosis from badgers to cattle are discussed.
24394182|Both Ireland and Britain have lost many large mammal species owing to habitat loss, conflict with humans and hunting for sport, fur or some other commodity. Reintroductions offer an effective way of restoring former indigenous species but, until recently, this has largely involved birds of prey in Ireland and Britain. Re-wilding has been proposed as a way of re-establishing whole mammalian communities in order to restore ecosystems and prevent further extinctions of other species dependent on one or a few keystone species. Pleistocene re-wilding is rejected in this paper as unrealistic but Mesolithic re-wilding is regarded as feasible because virtually all former indigenous species still survive globally or can be replaced by domestic descendants or close relatives. A form of re-wilding, naturalistic grazing, is practiced in some areas in Europe in the mistaken belief that predators have little or no impact on herbivore populations. However, evidence from the reintroduction of wolves to Yellowstone National Park indicates that they have direct impacts through predation and indirect impacts by creating 'landscapes of fear' that exclude herbivores, leading to vegetational and other species' recovery. The terrestrial mammal faunas of Ireland and Britain have been continually changing since late glacial times, partly in response to dramatically changing climatic and environmental conditions, but also owing to the direct and indirect impact of human activities. However, rising sea levels and differing proximities to continental Europe had a profound impact on the composition of the post-glacial mammal faunas of Ireland and Britain which has subsequently affected their natural and anthropogenic development during the Holocene. Our knowledge of faunal change has come primarily from recent advances in the analysis of the fossil and archaeological records as well as phylogeographical studies of contemporary mammal populations although there remain many gaps. Despite these possible deficiencies it seems likely that much of Ireland's terrestrial mammal fauna is introduced but the few natural post-glacial colonizers often represent morphological and genetically distinct forms indicating Ireland is a refugium or centre of endemism in Europe. Curiously, Ireland's post-glacial mammal fauna had a diverse array of large predators and few herbivores - there is no modern comparator of this unique mammalian community so that we can only speculate as to its ecological functioning and stability. With so much of the expected mammalian crew missing from Ireland and the inevitable loss of important mammalian biodiversity that would result from attempts to restore the 'natural' post-glacial mammal fauna what is the future of Ireland's mammals?
41419032|The National Parks and Wildlife Service, Dublin commissioned a review and survey of the conservation status of the Irish endemic Hieracium basalticola (Basalt Hawkweed) based on historical records and field survey. In this paper, the data are summarized. Hieracium basalticola is widespread in the west and north of Ireland from Clare to Antrim, and there are at least 3950 plants in 23 sites. It was not refound in seven historic sites (30% decline). The IUCN threat category is 'least Concern'.
25536612|To date, there is only one published record of the swimming crab Liocarcinus vemalis from Irish waters, collected in 1857 (Ingle and Clark 1998). Beach seining (carried out in May 2003, and September 2002, 2003) revealed that L. vemalis is relatively common on a number of sandy beaches in Cos Galway and Kerry on the west coast of Ireland. L. vemalis specimens were also found among collections of the very similar Liocarcinus marmoreus (Leach) at the Natural History Museum, Dublin. These were collected in Co Galway and date back over 130 years. Possible reasons for the historical scarcity of records of this swimming crab in Irish waters are discussed. The present study emphasizes the value of voucher material in museums, without which, in this case, L. vemalis would have been recorded as a new species in Irish waters and, therefore, as a possible indicator of climate change.
25536869|Contrary to reports of its extinction on Howth Head, Ireland, a substantial population of the xerothermic isopod Acaeroplastes melanurus (Budde-Lund), has been re-discovered at this locality. Its preferred niche is drier (xeric) niches such as growths of the fruticose lichen Ramalina siliquosa (Huds.) Smith on siliceous boulders from the upper shore to about 40m asl. The occurrence of Acaeroplastes melanurus at Howth is anachronistic, the site being over 1300km north of its main range on the Mediterranean littoral with no known intermediate localities on Atlantic coasts. Despite this, there is no evidence for its having been introduced. The Howth population comprises individuals of much smaller size (to 6mm) than is typical of Mediterranean populations (to 12mm) which is probably a response to the large differences in latitude and climate at this northern outlier of its main range.
25536456|Aspects of the life and work of Gregg Wilson (1865-1951) are considered in the context of the 'golden age' when natural history and naturalists' field clubs were flourishing in Ireland and when Queen's College, Belfast was developing into a university. Gregg Wilson was the last Professor of Natural History at Queen's College (1902-1908) and the first Professor of Zoology (1908-1931) at Queen's University and did much work to help the amateur naturalists. The collaborative work of the professional biologists with the amateur naturalists and the links between them at this time suggests that in Ireland at least, there was little evidence of a growing divide between academics and amateurs.
25535902|Data are provided on 29 species of Cynipidae in Ireland. A total of 28 are new to the island, including Andricus corruptrix (Schlechtendal).
25536780|The amphipod Corophium insidiosum is recorded for the first time in Irish waters during a survey carried out on behalf of the National Parks and Wildlife Service. This species is regarded as a lagoonal specialist in Britain and was found at three coastal lagoons (Rostellan W871660, Cuskinny W839674 and Rosscarbery W290367) on the south coast of Co Cork on 11 September 2003, 28 July 2002 and 20 July 2002, respectively. The three sites are described and the suggestion that C. insidiosum is an introduced exotic species is discussed.
25536415|Surveys of harbour seal pup numbers during the pupping season in the principal pupping areas in Co Down, north-east Ireland since 1993 have indicated decreasing numbers of pups since 1996 and instability of pupping groups. Since 1995-96, many mother-pup pairs have been leaving the natal site prematurely, apparently going off to sea taking week-old pups with them. Some entire pupping groups appear to have dispersed about a week after pupping. It is suggested that these phenomena may be related to a paucity of suitable fish prey species available to the seals in the vicinity of pupping sites and also to a relatively poor diet recorded for these seals in recent years.
25536244|The glacial relict crustacean Eurycercus glacialis Lillijebourg was first recorded from Ireland in 1985 (Duigan and Frey 1987). They found this large chydorid at four sites close to Gort, Co Galway, out of 38 sites sampled in the karstic limestone region between Ballyvaughan, Gort and Corofin, Cos Galway and Clare. In 1986, two more locations were discovered in Co Roscommon (Duigan 1988). No further records of the species have been reported since. Five further sites for E. glacialis have now been discovered during the course of an investigation of the ecology of turloughs in south-east Galway.
20764523|In order to record the distribution of Bottle-nosed Dolphins Tursiops truncatus (Montagu 1821) in the inner part of the Shannon Estuary, dedicated boat transects were carried out during the winter (November to March). Bottle-nosed Dolphins were recorded on seven of the ten transects with six of these sightings between Scattery Island and the Tarbert Races and with only one up-river, off Foynes Island. Eighteen individual dolphins were recognized using photo-identification all of which had been previously recorded in the estuary. The results confirm that Bottle-nosed Dolphins do occur regularly in the Shannon Estuary during winter months, with sighting frequency comparable to transects carried out during the summer in other parts of the estuary
24394185|A major challenge is presented to Irish foresters in attempting to balance the demands of society for ever more diverse forests with the need to ensure that our deer populations are maintained in accordance with the range of management objectives and activities which these forests are expected to provide and support. Deer can exert considerable influence, not simply on woodland development and timber quality, but also on a range of other ecological variables that may impact on priority conservation species and habitats. Since forest management is by default also habitat management, sustainably managing deer populations will require foresters and forest owners to equip themselves with the knowledge to plan and manage forests with deer in mind across multiple rotations and at a range of scales from 'leaf to landscape'.
25536807|Three woods in South-east Galway Ireland (H15) are briefly described. The woods have an aggregate area of over 150ha, making them one of the larger woodlands in western Ireland. Despite their size, they are little known and the paper lists their notable features in the hope of promoting further study. The woods are dominated by oak (Quercus petraea and Q. robur) but 17 other tree and large shrub species are recorded. Both dry and wet oak-wood vegetation occurs. A total flora of more than 100 species has been recorded with notable species including Euphorbia hyberna, Cephalanthera longifolia. Equisetum hyemale, Prunus padus and Lathraea squamaria.
41419210|The slipper lobster (Scyllarus arctus (L.)) is recorded for the first time in Irish waters, representing a northward range extension for the species of about 200 km in European and north-east Atlantic waters. Further records are reported from U.K. waters and the distribution and status of Scyllarus arctus in Irish, U.K. and Channel Island waters is reviewed.
25536781|Eleven species of Heteroptera (Arctocorisa carinata, Mesovelia furcata, Bothynotus pilosus, Deraeocoris scutellaris, Lygus maritimus, Orthops basalis, Globiceps fulvicollis, Tytthus pubescens, Orius laticollis, Himacerus boops and Drymus pilicornis) are added to the Irish list.
25536686|Several lakes in the lime-rich area near the Burren and the brackish-water lagoon L. Murree were visited in 2003. In total 12 different species of charophytes were found. Short descriptions of the localities are given and comments made on both the biology and systematics of the species.
41419041|A review of the hydraulic dredge fishery for Pod Razor (Ensis siliqua,) which commenced in the north-west Irish Sea (between Dublin andDundalk Bay) in 1997 is provided. The fishery is poorly documented but data on the approximate distribution of Undings of 2644 tonnes (up to 2008) were assembled. The fishery is pursued mainly inside the 5 m isobath. Harvest is supposed to occur within regulatory 'boxes' whose water quality determines whether it will take place but compliance is poor. The substratum is a fine sandy mud which presents a hard surface. Once penetrated by hydraulic dredging two other bivalve species, Pharus legumen and Lutraria lutraria, already present as small numbers of large individuals when exploitation began, established in greater abundance from Urge spat falls. Being a k-strategist, Pod Razor was fished down with little sign of recovery and the biomass of the larger opportunistic species, L. lu traria, has largely replaced it in areas which have been heavily fished.
25536609|The mustelids found in Ireland are Martes martes (pine marten), Mustela vison (American mink), Lutra lutra (otter), Meles meles (badger) and Mustela erminea hibemica (Irish stoat). A DNA test has been developed to unambiguously identify scat or hair samples by amplification and restriction enzyme analysis of the mitochondrial D-loop region. Sequencing revealed one haplotype for pine marten (Hap p), two for otter (Lut 1 and 2), three novel haplotypes for mink, and one for badger. Three haplotypes were identified for Irish stoat and phylogenetic analysis confirms the position of M. erminea hibemica within the species M. erminea.
41419118|Research on the Irish scelionid fauna and on scelionid types in the Haliday Collection National Museum of Ireland has shown that the genus Verrucosicephalia Szab should be reinstated. The genus contains two definite species: V. laricis (Walker, 1836) and V. rachelae (Mineo, 2004) n. comb. The status of V. depressa Szab, 1975 has yet to be resolved. In addition, Telenomus chloropus (Thomson, 1861) is synonymous with Telenomus turesis Walker, 1836. Irish records are also given. Telenomus othonia Walker, 1836 and T. turesis are new to Ireland.
25537672|Deformed nodular concretions are recorded from the Upper Dalradian of eastern Inishowen. The morphology, mineralogy and tectonic setting of the concretions is described, whilst a few hundred field measurements of major and minor axes of ellipsoidal sections suggest that strain ratios in the order of 3 or 2/1 were the most common. This strain resulted mainly from deformation during the F fold phase and the development of the slaty cleavage, (S).
41419116|Records of immigrant and other notable moths and butterflies in 2008 are summarized for the island of Ireland, including five moth species new to Ireland.
25536470|Measurements and photographs of the angles of the arms of the 4-armed hairs found in the bladders of Irish Utricularia L. species are presented. The data indicate: that drying reduces the angles measured in U. minor L., but not in U. vulgaris L.; that the angles and disposition of the arms of the quadrifids in U. minor and U. vulgaris vary considerably necessitating measurements being made on a number of hairs and a number of bladders; and that the mean angles for Irish species fall within the range of those reported from Britain, but slightly extend their range. Finally, it is shown that whilst U. stygia Thor occurs in Ireland the presence of U. ochroleuca R. Hartman sensu stricto awaits confirmation.
20764464|Two tag recoveries of female Cancer pagurus which had migrated exceptional distances during long periods at liberty are reported. Data are presented to demonstrate that distance moved is a consequence of inter-moult duration whose implications for stock structure and mixing are briefly discussed.
24393866|Specimens of the Asian Clam (Corbicula fluminea) were recorded in the River Shannon at Carrick-on-Shannon in August 2010. This is the first record of the highly invasive clam in this major river catchment. Individuals collected from the littoral zone indicated a population dominated by juveniles, with a mean density of 570 m-2.
24393863|Four alien amphipods are known from Irish freshwaters, these include two North American amphipods Crangonyx pseudogracilis and Gammarus tigrinus. These continue to expand their range, almost certainly aided by the linkage of canals to different river basins, and are locally common.
41419208|Eight days in July 2007 were devoted to investigating the mainly apomictic Rubus fruticosus L. aggregate in parts of Cos Armagh, Down and Antrim. The more noteworthy finds are detailed. They include three species new to the Irish List and two others constituting first records for the northern half of Ireland. One species found in Ireland only once previously, in 1898, was rediscovered.
25536272|The North American freshwater amphipod Crangonyx pseudogracilis was first noted in N. Ireland in the mid-1980s. Here, we show that this invader has spread throughout the lakes and streams of Northern Ireland, being particularly abundant in eutrophic, marginal and polluted waters. Aspects of recent research on the behaviour and ecology of this species are discussed.
20764460|Seven species of Psocoptera (Atlantopsocus adustus, Elipsocus moebiusi, Epicaecilius pilipennis, Peripsocus milleri, Philotarsus parviceps, Pseudopsocus rostocki and Trichadenotecnum sexpunctatum) are added to the Irish list and records are provided of 26 further species from six historic demesnes across Northern Ireland.
25536418|The status and breeding performance of the peregrine falcon at natural cliffs (inland and coastal) in south-east Ireland between 1981 and 2001 is presented. Coastal breeding numbers increased slightly in the early years of the study but then declined, probably because of disturbance.
25536364|Howard Hudson's hitherto unpublished 'Flora of Alexandra Road District', consisting of an annotated list of 114 taxa, is essentially a Flora of Dublin Port in the mid-1930s. This Flora is of interest because there is relatively little historical information about plants at Irish ports. The list has been reproduced in full, with names updated as necessary and comments added to put the records in context. Many of the taxa are native and common. However, the nearly 40 records of grain aliens and arable weeds are of particular value (including an early record of Conyza canadensis) as only 12 of the alien plant species listed by Hudson have been seen at Dublin Port in more recent times.
24393869|Telenomus laeviusculus (Ratzeburg) and Telenomus lopicida Silvestri (Hymenoptera: Scelionidae) are recorded new to Ireland. Neither has been previously recorded in the British Isles. Records are also given for some other rare Irish scelionids.
25536505|Age determination of eels is largely based on the use of otoliths, and has been highly controversial, with a variety of ageing techniques and interpretations in current use. A comparative study was carried out on 100 eels from the River Shannon system. The eels sampled were representative of populations from littoral and riverine sites and ranged in length from 94mm to 354mm. The otoliths were processed using the burning and cracking technique and by clearing in creosote. A comparison of the results indicated that both methods yielded similar results for the eels sampled, and indicated the suitability of the clearing method for use in future Irish studies, especially those that included large numbers of small eels.
24394431|The status of the Pearl-bordered Fritillary has recently been listed as being endangered in Ireland. The vast majority of reported sightings of this butterfly have been from a very limited area within a radius of 10 km from Clooncoose area in the Burren Co. Clare, the first known site for the species in Ireland. This paper reviews the information available from its discovery 90 years ago to the present.
25536059|Gravel samples were extracted from nine salmonid spawning fords on the River Bush, Co Antrim by a freezing sampling technique. An excess of fine material was found in the majority of the samples and this was shown to be strongly correlated with reduced gravel permeability. The data indicated that siltation appeared to be more pronounced moving down the catchment.
20764517|Historical records for two Irish donaciine beetles, Donacia dentata and Donacia semicuprea, from Lough Crincaum on Cromaglan Mountain, Co Kerry are considered anomalous. A third rarely recorded Irish donaciine, Plateumaris bracata, has also been recorded from the area. The site was visited in August 2008 to investigate the suitability of the habitat for these three species. None of the beetle species was found and it was confirmed that the foodplants of both D. dentata and D. semicuprea were absent. For this reason, neither of these records is considered acceptable. Consequently, we recommend that D. dentata is removed from the Irish list. However, the host plant for P. bracata was recorded at Lough Crincaum and this historical record is accepted.
20764501|Some of the keys to understanding the postglacial colonization of Ireland lie in our detailed knowledge of the timing and nature of environmental change. Recent improvements in palaeoenvironmental reconstructions and in dating methodologies have led to a greater degree of understanding but there is still a paucity of dated sites and detailed timing for periods of rapid environmental changes.
25535989|The aplysillid sponge Hexadella racovitzai Topsent, 1896 is reported for the first time from the British Isles. A description is given of its habitat and external appearance and its distribution is reviewed.
25536867|Over the past decade, many studies have reported and investigated the causes of the observed global decline in amphibian populations. The natterjack toad Bufo calamita is one of three amphibian species found in Ireland and the least widespread, being naturally confined to coastal areas in Co Kerry. The natterjack's distribution in Ireland has largely contracted since the species was first recorded in 1805. As with many other amphibian species worldwide, natterjacks are mainly threatened by habitat loss and fragmentation. Whilst studies are needed to better assess threats to natterjacks in an Irish context, the species is most likely threatened by changes in land usage. Here we also detail a number of threats that are of secondary importance for the viability of toad populations in Ireland.
41419039|Three species (Hydropsyche fulvipes Curtis, 1834, H. saxonica McLachlan, 1844 and Ecclisopteryx dalecarlica Kolenati, 1848) are added to the Irish list while one species (Ecclisopteryx guttulata (Pictet, 1834)) is deleted.
24394433|The presence of Small Skipper Thymelicus sylvestris in Ireland is confirmed and details of the site in Co. Kildare are provided. Distinguishing features for Small Skipper and the Essex Skipper are provided.
25537474|A sequence of variously coloured sandstones and mudstones is described. This rests unconformably on Lower Palaeozoic strata and has a faulted contact with Lower Carboniferous limestones.
25536400|Experimental and commercial yellow eel Anguilla anguilla fyke net fishing crews and silver eel fishing crews operating on the River Shannon system were surveyed between 1992-1998. Analyses of fishing reports recorded by both fishing crews and student observers indicated that some avian and mammal fatalities were recorded over this six year period. In general, wildlife bycatch levels were low, with a total of seven birds and 18 mammals killed. These fatalities involved, among others, the cormorant Phalacrocorax carbo and the mink Mustela vison, a species considered to be a pest by many. Of greater interest perhaps are the otter Lutra lutra fatalities, as this species, though still common in this country, is considered rare or threatened in the European Union as a whole.
24394423|Sampling for aquatic macro-invertebrates on Sherkin Island during September 2004 and 2005 produced 19 species of Heteroptera including a notable record of Corixa affinis Leach. Several species characteristic of brackish, base rich conditions were recorded consistent with a marine influence at many sites.
20764458|New records of Irish Pteromalidae (Hymenoptera: Chalcidoidea) are presented including three additions to the Irish fauna: Gastracanthus pulcherrimus Westwood, 1833, Syntomopus thoracicus Walker, 1833 and Toxeuma acilius (Walker, 1848).
24394183|Under the EU Habitats Directive, Ireland is obliged to maintain all species of cetacean at favourable conservation status. To date, 24 species have been recorded within the Irish Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) which extends up to 200 nautical miles (360 km) offshore. In order to achieve this objective different monitoring techniques are required depending on the distribution, behaviour and characteristics of the species of interest. Here we review a range of techniques and explore their benefits and constraints with recommendations on which may be most appropriate.
25536641|Presented in this paper are records of aquatic beetles compiled from a survey of Connemara National Park carried out in 2001 and 2003. The aim of the survey was to compile a list of the aquatic beetle species in the Park, particularly in upland areas as these are seldom visited by coleopterists. Brief remarks are given on the more notable records.
25536169|Wetland mollusc faunas from 12 sites on the three Aran Islands of Inishmore, Inishmaan and Inisheer in Galway Bay are described. In total, the wetland fauna recorded comprised 23 species, with individual sites ranging from 2 to 14 species. Molluscan richness correlated significantly with the richness of vascular plants at the sites. Ordination analysis of the fauna identified three ecological groups that can be related to different hydrological regimes and in particular the degree of fluctuation in water level, and water depth. The presence of the internationally rare succineid snail Catinella arenaia is confirmed on Inishmore and Inishmaan. This species is shown to be characteristic of a group of sites which show no evidence of major fluctuation in water level, and whose plant communities are characterized by relatively high diversity and a rich Carex flora. The distribution of this species on the islands is described and the significance of its disjunct wider distribution in Ireland explored in terms of environmental history and conservation.
25536711|The flora of a small island in the Shannon Estuary is described, where only 19 vascular plant species were found over a 20 year period. One of the plants was a tussock-forming Puccinellia, which was confirmed as an extreme growth form of P. maritima (Huds.) Parl. Such plants and other robust growth forms of P. maritima had been reported from the Shannon and Fergus Estuaries, Strangford Lough and the Co Down coast in the early 20th century variously as 'Glyceria festucaeformis (Atropis festucaeformis)' and 'Glyceria foucaudi[i] (Atropis foucaudi[i])'; the history of these plants and their names is unravelled. Tussock-forming P. maritima favours stony shores overlying boulder clay, and the distribution is given of this growth form in Ireland.
41419120|This paper reports on the distribution and abundance of the holly blue butterfly (Celastrina argiolus) as recorded through the Irish Butterfly Monitoring Scheme over the years 2007, 2008 and 2009.
25536663|Recognized for his entomological work in Ireland, it is perhaps not realized by many naturalists that Halbert was also an important acarologist, in fact the leading worker on mites that Ireland has produced. He was at the forefront of both entomology and acarology in Ireland for half a century (1890s to 1940s) and is regarded as an important pioneer. This paper deals with his contribution to Irish natural history, with particular reference to mites. In the field of acarology, Halbert remains an international figure.
41419206|The bottlenose dolphins in Cork Harbour were studied using photo-identification to monitor individual dolphins and to assess whether they were resident in the area or transients. Landbased observations were carried out, to examine how the occurrence of dolphins varied over time and were influenced by the tidal cycle.
24394426|The first Irish record of a Columbus crab found in association with a stranded Loggerhead Turtle is described.
24394129|This study occurred within the wider context of an ongoing research programme to improve knowledge of the Irish distribution of members of the very large, mainly apomictic Rubus fruticosus aggregate. The relatively isolated Slieve Bloom Mountains, extending across counties Laois and Offaly, were selected for intensive investigation. A series of one-day collecting trips, conducted during 2007-2010, yielded fifty-one different taxa and included three species new to Ireland. Three further entities were recorded, which although not yet described as species, have sufficiently wide distributions in Ireland to qualify for full-scale taxonomic recognition at a future date.
41419034|An attempt is made to review the past and present status of aquatic acarology in Ireland. J. N. Halbert's work is of particular note. Although several families of mites live in the marine littoral, only the marine mites (Halacaridae) are considered here. Larval freshwater mites, which occur as parasites on insects and other invertebrate groups, are referred to. A comprehensive bibliography is included.
20764415|Despite A.H. Haliday's pioneering work on the Thysanoptera and their economic importance, no Irish checklist has been published until the present work. This paper reviews the Irish thrips and provides information on the distributions and hosts of the 40 known species.
41419036|A juvenile female specimen of the Lesser-spotted Dogfish (Scyliorhinus caniculaj caught off the coast of Dublin, Ireland, during the spring of 2008, exhibiting the characteristics of total albinism, is described. Previous cases of albinism in elasmobranchs are reviewed.
24393865|The lumbricid earthworm Prosellodrilus amplisetosus Bouch, 1972 is reported for the first time from Ireland. One mature individual was found in an arable field, on gley loam soil, in Co. Louth. Since the endemic range of P. amplisetosus comprises the Aquitaine area in south-eastern France, this record probably reflects human-mediated introduction.
25536416|A dietary analysis was conducted on 254 commercially caught spiny dogfish, between September 1997 and September 1998. Fish formed the majority of the diet, with a total of eight species recorded. Scomber scombrus and Limanda limanda were the most important fish species, and bite marks on the recovered items indicate that the former were attacked from behind, while the latter were attacked from the side. Cephalopods were the only other prey recorded, and were represented by two species, Octopus vulgaris and Eledone cirrhosa. The prey recovered indicates that spiny dogfish feed throughout the water column, as well as on the bottom, and over a variety of substrates. The amount of prey recovered on a monthly basis was variable, but it is unclear if this is due to variations in feeding intensity or to the method of specimen collection.
24394432|One hundred fly fishers in Ireland were asked about accidents with bats, sixty two reported them but details were elusive. This is put in context by what is known about bat species that have been recorded in such accidents in Ireland and elsewhere.
25536868|The habitat preferences of vespertilionid bats in a forested landscape in south-western Ireland were quantified by acoustic surveys within specific habitats along a transect. Utilization of habitats differed among species. Myotis mystacinus favoured habitats with some component of broad-leaf woodland in addition to riparian habitat. M. daubentoni and Pipistrellus pygmaeus were found to have a close association with river and lake, and the habitats adjacent to them. P. pipistrellus was less selective and used habitats in proportion to their availability. This study underlines the importance of semi-natural habitats such as water bodies, broad-leaf woodland edge and treelines to bats in the Irish landscape.
25536246|Pearlside Maurolicus muelleri (Gmelin, 1788) is a small shoaling fish widely distributed in water deeper than 200m to the west of the British Isles. Occasional captures have been made during research surveys in the Irish Sea. The occurrence, distribution and size composition of pearlside in research trawl catches since 1991 are described.
25536081|The present vegetation of the western slope of Slieve Muck in the eastern Mournes is dominated by wet rough-grassland whereas the eastern slope is predominantly heather-clothed. Near the summit the vegetation is sparse grassland. It was postulated that the floristic composition of the present vegetation may be influenced by over-grazing by sheep. A pollen analytical investigation of a number of short peat profiles from the east and west faces of Slieve Muck was carried out to trace vegetation changes over approximately the last five hundred years. The results of the study show that the vegetation on either slope has changed little over the last half millennium with scant evidence to indicate an increasingly depauperate flora resulting from increasing pastoral activity.
25536616|The first occurrence of the water beetle Hydrovatus clypealis in Ireland is reported. Two species, Ochthebius nanus and Limnebius aluta, are deleted from the Irish Coleoptera list and attention is drawn to an error concerning the occurrence of Ochthebius poweri in Ireland.
25536206|Palaemon elegans Rathke occurs on less exposed shorelines than P. serratus (Pennant). It accounts for less than 1 per cent of the commercial shrimp landings by number and less than this by weight. P. elegans achieves smaller size than P. serratus and occurs among the lower and less valuable commercially graded shrimp. Like P. serratus it takes two years to complete the life cycle; female P. elegans are berried later in the year than the larger species.
41419209|Records of immigrant and other notable moths and butterflies in 2007 are summarized for the island of Ireland.
20764461|Nest site characteristics of the Barn Swallow were recorded during a study on breeding biology carried out between 2002 and 2006. When compared with other studies, some differences were noted in the relative height of nests within buildings and in the relative distances of nests from the building entrance and from the wall. These are believed to result from differences in building type rather than differences in preference by the birds. Light levels at nests were similar in range to that found in other studies, although more were placed in slightly darker sites.
20764515|Badgers found on an island, Rutland Island, Co. Donegal were investigated. When compared with Badgers from the Donegal mainland they are significantly smaller in both length and weight. Twenty-eight setts were found in a survey in 1998 and fifteen Badgers were trapped in 1999. GPS was used to map and re-locate setts and latrines. Bait-marking in 2003 showed that there were two social groups on the island at that time. The results are discussed with reference to the Badgers' adaptation to the island, their population structure, use of setts and the research opportunities, for both Badger management and conservation, on the island.
25536204|Eight intertidal sandflats on the coast of Ireland were sampled for non-aquatic Coleoptera in 1991 and 1992. Three staphylinids (Bledius subniger Schneid., Diglotta mersa (Hal.), D. sinuaticollis (Muls. & Rey)), two carabids (Cillenus lateralis (Sam.), Dyschirius impunctipennis Daws.) and one heterocerid (Heterocerus flexuousus Steph.) were recorded. Diglotta sinuaticollis has not been previously recorded in Ireland. Irish records for Bledius fergussoni Joy, B. subniger and both Diglotta species are reviewed. All six species occurred at Inch, Co Kerry, indicating the conservation importance of this site.
25534962|A shell bed in the Lower Cenomanian glauconite sands of Carr's Glen, near Belfast, contains the following fauna:- Ammonites: Schloenbachia subvarians Spath, S. intermedia (Mantell), S. subtuberculata Sharpe: Foraminifera: Rheophax sp., Arenobulimina anglica Cushman, Arenobulimina sp., Gaudryina cf. laevigata Franke. ?Gaudryina (Tritaxia) aff. macfadyeni (Cushman), Pyrulina cylindroides (Roemer), Guttulina cf. adhaerens (Olszewski), Lenticulata rotulata Lamarck, Planularia cf. pulavensis umbonata Pozaryska, P. dissona (Plummer), Planularia sp., Marginulina cf. austinana Cushman, M. jonesi Reuss, Saracenaria triangularis (d'Orbigny), Frondicularia inversa Reuss, Frondicularia sp., Palmula suturalis (Cushman), Citharina gracilina Marie, C. recta (Reuss), Citharina sp., Vaginulina daini Schijfsma, Nodosarina affinis Reuss, Dentalina basiplanata Cushman, D. cf. proteus Reuss, Gavelinella sp., Anomalina sp. The above microfauna has a number of genera and species in common with those recorded from the Chalk Marl of England. Absence of pelagic index foraminifera is attributed to a restricted environment close to shore with attendant poor preservation.
20764463|Records are presented of two snail-killing flies (Diptera, Sciomyzidae) new to Ireland: Colobaea pectoralis (Zetterstedt, 1847) and Pherbellia dorsata (Zetterstedt, 1846). The identification and habitat associations of these species are discussed.
24393862|Arenaria norvegica subsp. norvegica was re-discovered in Ireland in 2008 after an absence of 47 years. A detailed survey in 2009 revealed a small population restricted to skeletal soils on the edges of limestone pavement. A norvegica subsp. anglica occurs in an almost identical habitat in Northern England. Irish plants also appear to flower at least a month earlier and produce more infloresences than in Britain. These differences warrant further investigation given the isolation of the Irish population. That it remained undetected for so long is remarkable and cautions against declaring a species as 'extinct' even in such a well botanized locality as the Burren.
25536662|The growth dynamics of the infaunal bivalve, Abra alba (Wood) were investigated in Kinsale Harbour on the south coast of Ireland, between September 1994 and September 1996 using modal progression analysis. A total of 1674 individuals of A. alba were returned from one inner harbour site. Seven length class cohorts were identified. The findings suggest that the initial growth of individual cohorts differs throughout the year, with individuals spawned in spring growing faster than those spawned in autumn. Modal progression analysis indicates a lifespan of 12-18 months. A maximum length of 12.1mm was recorded. According to the von Bertalanffy growth function, length at relative age t is:
20764524|Records of immigrant and other notable moths and butterflies in 2006 are summarized for the island of Ireland. This was an exceptional year for migrant and vagrant species, and at least nine Lepidoptera species new to Ireland were recorded.
25535925|Papers published in The Irish Naturalists' Journal, from 1925 to 1994 which were primarily concerned with the marine ecology of Ireland, were reviewed and a summary, keywords, species list and location entered onto a database. The number of marine-related papers has tended to increase, with the exception of 1940 and 1941 when none were published due to the effects of World War II. At first, most authors had non-institutional Northern Ireland addresses. More recently, authors from educational institutes in the Republic of Ireland contributed most papers. About 12-21% of authors contributed 54-58% of the papers. The authors N. McMillan (on molluscs), A. E. J. Went (on fish) and D. T. G. Quigley (on fish) made the greatest contributions from 1925-1946, 1947-1970, and 1971-1994 respectively. The most frequently recorded taxa were fish, molluscs, crustaceans and algae, and most records were in the form of species lists or concerned with species distribution. The geographical coverage of papers suggested that the north-western and northern coasts from Slyne Head to Fair Head had received only half the attention of the rest of the Irish coast.
20764516|The sex of calves is difficult to distinguish in a hunting situation and any difference in sex ratio in harvest statistics will likely be due to factors other than hunter preference. We examined calves harvested in various situations during a study of a harvest of Sika-type deer and found that a bias towards females existed when calves were harvested along with a hind, presumed the dam. We conclude that female calves are more vulnerable to harvesting than are males in this situation. The behavioural differences that may account for this and management implications are discussed.
25536433|A survey of the marsh fritillary butterfly population in Northern Ireland was undertaken in 1999. Eight definite colonies of marsh fritillaries were confirmed by web counts. Most colonies were found on unmanaged wetland sites. East Down was identified as a key area for the species in Northern Ireland. No trends can be ascribed to the Northern Ireland population but previous published estimates are considered too high. There appears to have been a shift in the population towards the south and east. Recommendations are made for further survey, monitoring and research of the species in Northern Ireland.
24394126|The CrBeo project investigated biodiversity in Irish soils and provided data on the distribution, diversity and indicator value of a range of micro- and macro-organisms. In this paper we present data on the oribatid and gamasid (or mesostigmatid) mites (Arachnida, Acari) found in the survey. More than 100 taxa of mites were collected from 48 sites distributed across Ireland. The sites were selected to represent the major soil types and land uses (i.e. arable, pasture, forest, rough grazing and bogs). Mite abundance and species richness varied significantly between land uses but the pattern across land uses differed between oribatids and mesostigmatids. Oribatid abundance also differed between soil types and was positively correlated with soil organic matter. The genus Astegistes, as well as the species Limnozetes amnicus and Quadroppia pseudocircumita (all oribatids), are recorded for the first time in Ireland and some comments on their biology and distribution are provided.
24394427|The Painted Lady is a migratory butterfly that arrives in Ireland each year but cannot survive Irish winters. It is not known with certainty whether the Irish populations originate from North Africa (where they can survive during winter) or from a Europe-born generation. This paper describes the Painted Lady migration of 2009 highlighting the large arrival at the end of May. It appears that only a small proportion of these butterflies successfully reproduced that summer. Records from the May migration were used in 24 hour back-trajectory analyses to investigate the origin of this migration. These analyses showed that the butterflies probably travelled through France, England and/or Wales, before arriving in Ireland.
25536590|Lowland turloughs in the Galway area were sampled for corixids in the period immediately following autumn flooding. Samples were also taken for comparison from an adjacent permanent lake, Lough Corrib. Species distributions are discussed in relation to habitat size and stability. The distributions of Sigara falleni and S. fallenoidea were found to be mutually exclusive. Records of corixid species from previous studies in the area are reviewed. The high incidence of nymphs in the turloughs suggests retarded development in these habitats. The opportunity for colonization of the turloughs by corixids in the autumn period is believed to be limited by weather conditions.
25536118|Although the terms 'reefs' is commonly associated with tropical coral structures, numerous studies have shown the existence of reef-structures in temperate latitudes, mostly constructed by polychaete worms. Although a number of different genera in a range of families are known to construct such reefs, perhaps the best known examples are constructed by sabellariid polychaetes. In a survey of published records, Kirtley and Tanner (1968) found that sabellarian reefs are encountered between the latitudes of 72N and 53S, demonstrating their world-wide significance. Within European waters, two species of Sabellariidae construct structures large enough to be called reefs. Sabellaria spinulosa Leuckart constructs small reefs, up to 0.4m in height and mainly occurs in the subtidal, while S. alveolata (L.) constructs larger reefs and is mostly found in the intertidal (Gruet 1986, Wilson 1971), although in the western Mediterranean and in the Severn Estuary (Bristol Channel, United Kingdom) it forms subtidal reefs (Gruet 1986, Mettam et al. 1994).
20764508|Ireland exhibits the highest incidence in Europe of a number of genetic disorders. The gene variants causing these diseases either were carried into Ireland by population incursion(s) or originated within the Irish population. Their age, evolution and population history can be investigated using geographic distribution patterns and by the analysis of genetic markers associated with them. Taken together with results from the study of neutral lineage-specific DNA markers in human and other animal and plant species, molecular genetic studies of inherited disease provide a new and valuable 'window' on the post glacial history of Ireland.
24393867|The Irish scale-insect fauna (Hemiptera: Coccoidea) is reviewed. Data are provided on 48 species of which six are recorded new to the island. The occurrence of Aspidiotus nerii Bouch is confirmed. Altogether there are 25 native species; six non-native species naturalised outdoors; nine non-native species established on indoor plantings and five non-established introductions. There are records of three species which the authors believe are incorrect or misidentifications. Many of the Irish records are very old and therefore, it is uncertain that some reported species are still extant in Ireland.
25536685|At least 30 new sites with Vertigo geyeri have been found in Ireland during fieldwork from 1999 to 2004. These more than double the number of localities previously known and thus reinforce evidence that Ireland is a stronghold for this vulnerable species. They include the first records from Northern Ireland and far more sites from western coastal counties than hitherto known. The large number of additional localities and the varied range of habitats represented have implications for our understanding of its status, habitat requirements and conservation management.
25536324|Growth in brown trout Salmo trutta (L.) sampled from both the River Main and Lough Neagh was estimated from back-calculated length-at-age data. Growth rates for both non-migratory river trout and migratory lake trout were found to be significantly higher than might have been anticipated whether compared with data from earlier studies from the same waters or with the body of knowledge on trout growth previously reported for Irish rivers and lakes.
20764412|Thresher Sharks appear to be relatively scarce and infrequently recorded from Irish waters. Alopias vulpinus has only been recorded on 16 occasions from inshore waters and A. superciliosus only once from offshore waters. The current paper summarizes details on all known records.
41419040|The rediscovery of seven wood-decay (saproxylic) beetles is reported, all having been added to the Irish List in excess of 70 years ago but not reported since. The new sites are all ancient woodlands and/or historic demesnes, and the species are mostly associated in Britain with old growth conditions. The implications are discussed.
25536436|Between 1849 and 1902, Queen's College had three professors of natural history - George Dickie (1812-1877), Charles Wyville Thomson (1830-1882) and Robert Oliver Cunningham (1841-1918). All were Scottish born and trained in medicine at Edinburgh. Alone they carried out the teaching of botany, zoology and geology and laid the foundation of the museum collections. They published widely in their specialist fields and two of them became Fellows of the Royal Society. This is an account of their lives and work and includes their contribution to Irish natural history.
41419207|Between 1906 and the mid-1950s fames Parsons Burkitt, a mathematician and engineer by training, kept a notebook in which he recorded his observations of birds. Analysis of the notes gives information about his bird-watching activities. He made observations principally in County Fermanagh and, before he retired as County Surveyor in 1940, he availed of opportunities provided by his official duties to indulge his hobby. Burkitts interest in birds developed from shooting and egg-collecting, and culminated in detailed recording of breeding behaviour and song. 130 species are accounted for, but only a very few notes relate to the garden robin, which was the subject of his famous field-study between 1924 and 1926.
25536032|A feral population of mandarin duck and its habitat in the valley of the Shimna River, Co Down was studied from 1990 to 1995. The adult population varied from 21 to 27 and productivity was low with between two and six young reaching the age of two months each year. Habitat requirements were satisfied by an abundance of mature deciduous trees, especially oak and beech, which offered cavities for nesting and seeds for winter food. Aquatic feeding was limited with the impoverished aquatic invertebrate fauna important in limiting recruitment. Habitat data over an 8km radius of surrounding countryside indicated that opportunities for expansion are restricted to one main area.
25535844|A check-list of 14 established species and three probably adventitious species of Irish Sarcophagini (Sarcophagidae) derived mainly from a collection of 3472 specimens is presented. Comments on the local and national abundance of each species and its relationship to the faunas of neighbouring countries are accompanied by the limited information available on the breeding habits of the species.
24394125|A total of 117 stoats was examined for damage by Skrjabingylus nasicola. Of these 70.11 per cent showed clinical signs of skrjabingylosis. The presence of the parasite was found across all age groups and between sexes. Adult stoats were more likely to be infected than juveniles, but differences in infection rates were not detected relating to sex or location. Male stoats presented with higher levels of infection than females, although the difference between the sexes was not statistically significant. When located, the number of nematodes in the soft brain tissue of each animal ranged from 1 to 87. How this parasite will respond to the presence of introduced small mammals in Ireland, is speculated upon.
25536276|The third confirmed record of the shortfin mako shark and the first records of the pelagic stingray in Irish waters are presented. Morphometric measurements were collected for both species, and a parasitic investigation yielded two species of copepod new to Irish waters.
25535848|The Irish species of Ischnocera and Amblycera (Phthiraptera) are reviewed and discussed. The list contains forty-eight species new to the island including five species new to the British Isles. A total of 98 species are now known from Ireland
25536114|A summer survey was made of the chironomid fauna of six littoral sites, three sandy and three rocky, in Lough Neagh, Northern Ireland. The most abundant taxa at four of the sites were Glyptotendipes sp.gr. A and Microtendipes pedellus gr. TWINSPAN computer analysis divided the site initially by substrate type. Insects comprised over 50 per cent of the macroinvertebrate fauna in the sandy littoral and c70 per cent in the rocky, chironomids being 99 per cent (sand) and 93 per cent (rocks) of the insects in terms of numbers.
41419038|Thirteen species of chalcidoid wasp new to Ireland are identified along with numerous new county records.
25536594|Moth-trapping on Sherkin Island from 1977-1997 has produced a species list of 223 'macromoths'. The list includes the following rare and locally distributed species: cloaked carpet, netted pug, sand dart, square-spot dart, southern wainscot, Barrett's marbled coronet and pinion-streaked snout. The following migrant species were recorded: the convolvulus hawkmoth, striped hawkmoth, crimson speckled, delicate, small mottled willow, bordered straw and the gem.
25536779|The Asian amphipod Caprella mutica, first recorded in Europe from the Netherlands in 1995, is now known from Norway and Scotland and has recently been recorded from the west coast of Ireland. This account records its presence in Dublin Bay on the east coast of Ireland. Although this species does not have a free-swimming larval stage it would appear that it may expand its distribution with fouling associated with small craft or ships or perhaps with drifting plants. Specimens were not found overwinter.
25537603|The occurrences of a podzol over Silurian shale parent material, two to three hundred feet below the normal level in Co. Limrick, were examined. The cause was found to be a mixture of acidic Old Red Sandstone in the parent material, carried down by solifluction.
25535968|The macrofungal biota of Dryas communities in the Burren was found to be composed of a major woodland element and a lesser grassland element. The forest element is comprised mainly of common forest fungi and a smaller number of coniferous forest species which are otherwise rare or absent from Ireland. It is hypothesized that this macrofungal biota is a relictual biota from extinct pine forest in the Burren.
25536756|Stomach contents information is presented from a male sperm whale calf thought to have live stranded in Co Clare, Ireland, in May 2004. This is the second smallest sperm whale recorded as stranded in the North Atlantic since stranding records began. The stomach contents consisted of a white substance (probably milk) and the hard remains of several hundred oceanic cephalopods, mainly squid of the family Histioteuthidae.
25536710|Harbour seals Phoca vitulina L. in inner Bantry Bay and inner Kenmare River were surveyed on a regular basis from 1985-2004. These data, along with historical records from 1964-1984, are reviewed. There was a significant positive linear relationship between year and count. Overall, the data show that between 1985 and 2004 the population of harbour seal in the count areas increased by 298% (Bantry Bay) and 354% (Kenmare River). The two bays are now among the most important sites for harbour seal in Ireland. The results are discussed in relation to pressures on the local harbour seal population including persecution, disturbance and phocine distemper virus. Harbour seal numbers have increased despite these potential and actual threats.
41419119|Records of a five year survey of mammalian road casualties in two different parts (removal reference areas) of the Co. Cork portion of the Four Area Badger Project are reported. There were more hedgehog, domestic cat and fox casualties in the removal area, but only the species differed to a statistically significant extent from the reference area. How such studies might be improved and the possible implications for epidemiology and biodiversity are discussed.
25535942|Vicia orobus is a threatened plant in Ireland, having been seen recently at only three sites according to the Irish red data book. The plant was recorded from several stations in Galway (H16 and H17) before 1914. In this paper the plant is reported as persisting in all its old stations as well as in some new localities. A total of eight populations in Co Galway are listed as well as an additional new station in East Mayo (H26). The plant is found in two habitats, wooded islands on Lough Corrib and heathland overlying limestone where it occurs alongside "Burren" species such as Gentiana verna. Despite the confirmation of old records the plant is considered as being threatened by land reclamation.
25536826|The water boatman (Heteroptera: Corixidae) Micronecta griseola Horvth was found at Lough Graney, Co Clare in July 2004, the first Irish record. Information is given on the biology, habitat and field characteristics of M. griseola and congeneric species.
25536083|The current status of the exotic barnacle Elminius modestus Darwin was assessed at 27 sites in Galway Bay during the months of February to April 1996. E. modestus was recorded at 13 of the 27 sites visited. These sites all lie at the eastern end of the Bay. The species was particularly common in the vicinity of Galway Harbour. Sites where the species was absent lie towards the mouth of the Bay on both northern and southern shores. The most likely explanation for the observed pattern of abundance and distribution of the species in Galway Bay is that it was initially introduced by shipping and since then has spread from its original site of colonization near Galway docks by marginal dispersal. Breeding populations of E. modestus were recorded at five of the sites examined.
25536347|Pseudodactylogyrus bini (Kikuchi) an introduced monogenean parasite of eels Anguilla anguilla L. is recorded for the first time in Ireland. Infection parameters for this species and other gill infecting ectoparasites (Pseudodactylogyrus anguillae Yin and Sproston, Ergasilus gibbus Von Nordmann and glochidia of Anodonta cygnea L.) of eels from two sites on the River Erne are presented.
24394130|To investigate the extent of road mortalities of mammals in the west of Ireland a survey was carried out during 2006, 2009 and 2010. In total, 265 individuals from twelve species were recorded. Badgers, foxes and hares accounted for eighty per cent of casualties. Mortalities of these three species were analysed over years, seasons, habitats and road type to identify times and locations of highest risk. Results are discussed in relation to the literature and recommendations to minimise road mortality are suggested.
24393870|From 2006-2010 an extensive survey of the Marsh Fritillary butterfly was carried out in Co. Donegal. Persistent checking of sites with suitable habitat confirmed the Marsh Fritillary as present in at least 55 10km squares of the 81 squares covering Co. Donegal.
20764498|To help emphasize the different approach suggested for the 2006 conference, the phrase 'Mind the Gap' was introduced. This was thought to be appropriate as the phrase could have a number of different meanings. At first sight this could be construed as simply meaning the geographical gap created by the Irish Sea and the prey gap known to exist in Ireland fauna etc, but the main theme of this paper can summarized by the observation that the gaps are not only geographical and biological but are just as much a creation of the way we look at the problems of colonization. Indeed, although much of the paper is devoted to the differences between laboratory and field scientists in their approach to research, this contribution will also explore more subtle gaps in the form of under expectation of the role of population movement, transport and trade in the introduction of new elements or even in the role of human as a cause of extinctions.
24394127|Clergymen naturalists have made a significant contribution to nature in Ireland and some, such as Edward Allworthy Armstrong (1900-1978) and John Joseph Moore SJ (b.1927), are international figures. Their work, largely carried out in the field, was done mainly in the late-nineteenth and early-twentieth centuries and, although some were professionals, for the majority it was leisure time activity. While most of them were Protestants, some Roman Catholic clergymen have played a part in the more recent environmental movement. The majority were botanists but ornithology and entomology were also important pursuits. The present account focusses on those three disciplines, each with biobibliographical notes, and it serves as an introduction to the subject. There is also a section on biodiversity, conservation and environment, but geology has been excluded.
25536664|A sample of 100 common megrim Lepidorhombus whiffiagonis and 100 four-spot megrim Lepidorhombus boscii were collected from the port of Rossaveal, Co Galway, on four different days between November 1998 and July 1999. Ranges of 80-96 and 79-89 dorsal fin rays and 60-74 and 63-71 anal fin rays were recorded for L. whiffiagonis and L. boscii respectively. For vertebral counts, ranges of 40-43 and 39-43 were recorded for L. whiffiagonis and L. boscii respectively.
25536303|Analysis of the morphology of herbarium and fresh Valerianella species in Ireland indicates that there are previously unrecorded morphological differences (leaf and flower-head width) between them and between varieties of V. locusta (plant height, leaf length and number of basal rosette leaves). These data are used to generate a new key to this genus in Ireland, which requires field-testing.
20764456|More than 75 individual reports of Mistletoe (Viscum album) from 16 Irish vice-counties are reviewed. Mistletoe is not an indigenous species, but was deliberately introduced by horticulturists. In the second half of 19th century, viable populations of this species were established in Dublin's botanical gardens, whence it spread with human assistance as well as by natural means. Mistletoe is still spreading in the Dublin region.
25539798|Distribution records of and notes on some Empididae and Hybotidae regarded as scarce in Ireland are presented, including Chelipoda albiseta (Zett.), Crossopalpus humilis (Frey), Empis bicuspidata Coll., Hilara quadriseta Coll., H. subpollinosa Coll., Holoclera nigripennis (Fabr.), Platypalpus australominutus Grootaert, P. cursitans (Fabr.), P. pallipes (Fall.), Stilpon subnubilus Chvla and Trichina pallipes (Zett.), which are new to the Irish fauna. A revised checklist of the Empididae, Hybotidae and Microphoridae of Ireland is included. /// Des donnes faunistiques sont presentes pour quelques espces de Diptres Empididae et Hybotidae rares en Irelande. Les espces Chelipoda albiseta (Zett.), Crossopalpus humilis-(Frey), Empis bicuspidata Coll., Hilara quadriseta Coll., H. subpollinosa Coll., Holoclera nigripennis (Fabr.), Platypalpus australominutus Grootaert, P. cursitans (Fabr.), P. pallipes (Fall.), Stilpon subnubilus Chvla et Trichina pallipes (Zett.) ont t recoltes en Irelande pour la premire fois. Une liste revis des espces Irlandaises des Empididae, Hybotidae et Microphoridae est presente.
20764418|Archaeophytes are plant taxa that were introduced by humans before 1500. Here we record a first, provisional, list of Irish archaeophytes used in our other work. There are 96 taxa that are treated as archaeophytes in Ireland on the basis that they are regarded as archaeophytes in Britain and have established populations in Ireland. The limitations of this approach and the need for further work are discussed.
25536417|Sedimentation and water flow rates were measured at six sublittoral cliff sites in a sea lough, in Co Cork, Ireland. The variables recorded changed with depth and site. The highest sedimentation rates (at equivalent depths) were found at the site of moderate flow, as slowing water currents allow material to settle from suspension and reduce re-suspension. Sedimentation rates increased with depth at all sites. Current flow rate showed an inverse relationship to the sedimentation rates. The flow rate also differed considerably between spring and neap tides, with up to 60 per cent faster currents recorded during spring tides. Seasonal variation was found in sedimentation rates and in the organic content of the sediment collected. Highest seasonal sedimentation rates (for any given depth) were found during the winter months. This was correlated with higher wind speeds, although peaks in sedimentation were not observed until a wind speed threshold was reached. Organic content increased during the spring and summer months, most likely due to increased planktonic production.
25535926|The red-mouthed goby Gobius cruentatus was recorded from Lough Hyne, Bantry and Kenmare bays, on the south-west Irish coast. These sites are localized within three regions on the south-west Irish coast and may be independent of each other. G. cruentatus requires boulder or stone spaces or rock crevices in shallow, sheltered areas. The largest known population was at Lough Hyne, a deep sheltered sea inlet. At one locality within this Lough G. cruentatus was the dominant species taken in traps. The records from Ireland represent the most northerly extent of its range. In areas where commercial fishing for the prawn Palaemon serratus takes place, certain goby species may be vulnerable to trapping.
25536734|The little-known planthopper Paraliburnia clypealis is described from experimental field margin strips within a dairy grassland. Suction samples were taken in 2004 and 2005. The number of individuals was greater in the field margins than control grazed areas. The vegetation of the field margin experiment was recorded, giving a detailed description of the habitat. The substantial population of P. clypealis found in the field margins indicates that in Ireland this species is not restricted to the wetland habitats and food plants previously described.
25536823|A mammal survey, using tracks and signs surveys, small mammal trapping and bat detection was carried out in Terryland Forest Park, an urban woodland under development in Galway City. Twelve mammal species were positively identified as being present in the Park, including mammals common in urban areas, such as the fox, house mouse and brown rat, and those more unusual, such as the Irish hare. The Park provides an excellent habitat for mammal species within the urban landscape, and 'green' corridors leading to the Park from the countryside surrounding the City provide a route into and out of the area for its mammalian fauna.
25535867|From preliminary investigation of mini-turves obtained from a north Antrim heathland it is suggested that these contained a viable seed bank which could facilitate representative regeneration following vegetation disturbance. Subsequent investigations of species presence and abundance over a 12 month period indicates that there are variations in the seed bank between different ages of Calluna stands. The rate of reappearance of individual species is also variable.
20764519|Ochthebius nilssoni Hebauer, 1986 is newly recorded from lakes in and around the Burren in Clare and south-east Galway. The only other site where it is known with certainty is an oligotrophic lake in northern Sweden. A key to Irish Ochthebius and Enicocerus is provided.
20764499|At the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM) c26 000 calendar years ago, global sea levels were around 120m lower than present due to the storage of water on land in the form of large, high-latitude ice sheets. This lowering of sea level exposed portions of the modern seafloor surrounding north-west Europe, forming 'land-bridges that joined Britain and Ireland to the rest of the continent. Sometime later, these land-bridges were drowned by rising sea levels as the ice sheets melted in response to a warming climate. Precisely when these land connections were severed has been a subject of debate for several decades, driven in part by the desire to understand the postglacial recolonization of Ireland by plants and animals. The level of the sea relative to the land surface (relative sea-level) results from the interplay between vertical changes in both land and sea level. These processes can be simulated by computer models that describe the response of the solid Earth to the loading and unloading of glacial ice (glacial rebound models). In addition to simulating relative sea-levels, the output from these models can, when combined with bathymetric and topographic data, be used to produce first-order palaeogeographic reconstructions. This paper uses palaeogeographic reconstructions of this kind to investigate the location and duration of possible land-bridges joining Ireland to Britain. These reconstructions are derived from a recently developed glacial rebound model for Ireland that incorporates an updated British-Irish Ice Sheet component and is trained by geological sea-level indicators from around the Irish coast. The resulting reconstructions suggest that Ireland was separated from Britain by c16 000 calendar years ago, at which time climate was still cold and local ice caps persisted in parts of the country. No support is found for the idea that a Holocene land-bridge was instrumental in the migration of temperate flora and fauna into Ireland.
20764419|A review is given of the known Irish status of species within the leafhopper sub-family Idiocerinae. The discovery of six species previously unknown in Ireland is described.
25536845|The bank vole, Clethrionomys glareolus, is found in south-west Ireland but is not native. There is compelling evidence suggesting that the species was introduced from Germany in the 1920s with equipment for a hydroelectric scheme on the River Shannon. We assessed the genetic evidence for this introduction source using sequences of the mitochondrial (mt) cytochrome b gene (713 base pairs) from 34 individuals captured throughout the bank vole distribution in Ireland, 10 individuals from Britain and 30 individuals collected in southern Germany (from two areas from where the hydroelectric machinery originated). Our results support previous RFLP studies, which showed low levels of mtDNA variation in Irish bank voles, suggesting that the founder population consisted of few individuals. There was a close relationship between the Irish and German sequences, showing that Irish voles are part of the western European phylogeographical lineage, but we could not pinpoint with certainty the origin of the bank voles to either of the two areas in Germany. Larger and more widespread samples from Germany and appraisal of additional molecular markers would be needed to further investigate the origin of Irish bank voles.
24394189|A new Red List of Irish terrestrial mammals was published in 2009. All 26 terrestrial species native to Ireland or naturalized in Ireland before 1500 were included in the assessment. Of these, one was found to be 'Regionally Extinct' (grey wolf Canis lupus L., 1758); one achieved a threat status of 'Vulnerable' (black rat Rattus rattus (L., 1758)); three were found to be 'Near Threatened' (Leisler's bat Nyctalus leisleri (Kuhl, 1817), otter Lutra lutra (L., 1758) and red squirrel Sciurus vulgaris L., 1758); one was 'Data Deficient' (Brandt's bat Myotis brandtii (Eversmann, 1845))); and the remaining twenty species were of 'Least Concern'. While the Irish mammalian fauna in general is in good status, a number of widespread threats are recognized such as unsympathetic woodland management, poor water quality, road traffic collisions, and persecution. There are also concerns about the underlying status of many of the natural habitats on which these species rely. Priorities for mammal conservation and research differ across species but the impacts of alien invasive species and climate change will need particular focus.
25536975|The following foraminifera occur, accompanied by ostracods and other microfossils: Ammodiscus asper (Terquem), Marginulina bergquisti Tappan, M. prima d'Orbigny, Marginulina spp., Frondicularia lustrata Tappan, F. sulcata Bornemann, Nodosaria radiata (Terquem), Lingulina tenera Bornemann, Lenticulina sp., Planularia sp., and Dentalina sp. On the basis of variants within the species L. tenera and F. sulcata it is considered that a stratigraphic level within the zone of Schlotheimia angulata is represented.
25536323|The BSBI Monitoring Scheme was a sample hectad (10-km square) survey of Britain and Ireland set up to assess changes in the vascular plant flora since 1960. To assess change in Ireland, records collected during 1987 and 1988 were compared against historical records and data collected for the Atlas of the British flora. At least 19 per cent of the flora was found to have changed significantly (11 per cent decrease, 8 per cent increase). Tables showing species which have changed in frequency and selected maps are presented. The major trends suggest that plants of calcareous grasslands, open grasslands, unimproved grasslands, the coast and arable weeds have declined, whilst introduced species have increased.
25538109|Ectopsocus petersi sp. n. is described and Caecilius rhenanus Tetens and Elipsocus mclachlani Kimmins are recorded for the first time from Ireland. Seventy new county records are given together with a summary of published records on a county basis.
41419113|A National Frog Survey oflreknd is planned for spring 2011. We conducted a pilot survey of 25 water bodies in ten 0.25 km survey squares in Co. Mayo during spring 2010. Drainage ditches were the most commonly available site for breeding and, generally, two 100 m stretches of ditch were surveyed in each square. The restricted period for peak spawning activity renders any methodology utilizing only one site visit inherently risky. Consequently, each site was visited three times from late March to early April. Occurrence of spawn declined significantly from 72 % to 44 % between the first and third visit whilst the overall occurrence of spawn at all sites was 76 %. As the breeding season advanced, spawn either hatched or was predated and, therefore, disappeared. In those water bodies where spawning was late, however, greater densities of spawn were deposited than in those sites where breeding was early. Consequently, spawn density and estimated frog density did not differ significantly between site visits. Future surveys should nevertheless include multiple site visits to avoid biased estimation of species occurrence and distribution. Ecological succession was identified as the main threat present at 44 % of sites.
20764465|Mysis relicta is a glacial relict crustacean species of the Mysidacea order. It was recorded during this study from Lough Allen in the upper Shannon catchment, Ireland. A total number of 45 individual organisms were recorded from four vertical tows. This is a new record for this species, previously known in Ireland from only five lakes, namely Lough Ree, Lough Derg, Lough Corrib, Lough Neagh and Lough Erne.
25536637|The Northern colletes bee, Colletes floralis Eversmann, is a UK Biodiversity Action Plan priority species, last recorded in Northern Ireland in 1933. During July and August 2003, the RSPB organized a survey of potential areas of habitat along northern and eastern coasts of Northern Ireland. The bee was re-discovered at 4 sites, all on the northern coast. Bees were observed at burrows and the identity of a voucher specimen was confirmed. They occurred at lower densities than at sites in Scotland and are very vulnerable. Site managers have been provided with management recommendations for each site visited.
25536388|The badgers of Coney Island are described, along with details of their setts, territories, social groups, latrines, above ground beds, and movements. The badgers are lighter then mainland badgers, and all except one have white noses. The implications of this and other studies on islands for badger management, in particular in relation to a vaccine for tuberculosis, are discussed.
25536348|At least 1000 auks drowned in fishing nets in east Cork in January and February 1983. Of these, 274 guillemots and 259 razorbills were examined and were found to be in good body condition with no signs of emaciation. The presence of sprat shoals is believed to be the reason why so many auks congregated close to shore. Biometric data and details of plumage state are given.
41419114|Records are presented of two snail-killing flies (Diptera, Sciomyzidae) new to Ireland: Sciomyza simplex Falln, 1820 and Sciomyza testacea Macquart, 1835. The identification and habitat associations of these species are discussed, and a key to the identification of European Sciomyza species is presented.
24394124|Pellets of Short-eared Owl from Ireland are described. The size and shape of pellets varied considerably, but was similar to those described in other studies. Pellets within the same size range were cast regardless of the prey species consumed. Pellets contained up to eleven small prey items, but the mean ranged from 1.12 to 2.71 depending on the prey species. There was evidence that small bird prey (i.e. wren, goldcrest, long-tailed tit) was taken while roosting communally. There was no firm evidence that Short-eared Owls digested bone from their prey during winter, but bird skulls were likely to be crushed by muscular action during pellet formation. Best total prey count results can be obtained for Dunlin by counting a combination of the humerus and metatarsus, for Snipe and Redshank by counting the furcula, together with leg, wing and head parts, but this probably still underestimates the true total by 10 per cent in both species. Best results for thrushes and small passerines can be obtained by using a combination of distinctive feathers, bills, humerus and leg parts. Best results for small mammals can be obtained by using skulls and lower jaw bones, but for rats a combination of all available bones must be used, although perhaps leading to an under count of 10 per cent. There was evidence that owls fed selectively on body parts of large prey, and that many bones of such prey were either not consumed or were fragmented, thus lowering counts in dietary studies. Counts of different skeletal parts present in bird prey are given, and the number of damaged and undamaged dunlin bones are tabulated.
25536808|Juniper is one of only three conifers native to Ireland and is a Northern Ireland Priority Species for conservation concern. To inform some of the basic requirements of the Species Action Plan, a survey of juniper in Northern Ireland was undertaken in 2005. Juniper plants were located at 22 of 34 (65%) previously-recorded sites. Most plants were on high, steep slopes or inaccessible coastal cliffs. The prostrate growth form was most prevalent (84% of plants), though a few erect plants were found in Co Fermanagh and the Mourne Mountains, Co Down. Juniper plants in Northern Ireland are largely senescent with little evidence of berries or recent recruitment. Some seedlings were identified in the Mourne Mountains, where there was also the most evidence of recent growth. The well-documented declines in juniper populations elsewhere in the UK and Europe are likely to be similar in Northern Ireland. The location and growth forms of plants indicate that grazing pressure is the principal constraint on plant growth and survival.
25536687|In this paper, eight species are added to the Irish sawfly fauna: Ardis pallipes, Claremontia uncta, Eutomostethus nigrans, Euura weiffenbachii, Hoplocampa ariae, Phyllocolpa scotaspis, Scolioneura vicina and Tenthredopsis scutellaris. New records of species previously only very rarely found in Ireland are also included.
24394430|A survey on the oribatid (Acari, Oribatida) and gamasid mite (Acari, Gamasida) communities inhabiting arboreal habitats (epiphytic mats in the canopy, branches and moss growing at the bases of the trunks) as well as edaphic moss, was carried out in a native oak wood (Quercus petraea) and a native yew forest (Taxus baccata) located in Killarney National Park The structure and composition of the assemblages occurring in the arboreal niches were compared with those present both in the forest floor and in the trunk bases. Almost 2000 individuals, representing 50 oribatid and 15 gamasid species were recovered in the survey. The genus Ommatocepheus Berlese, 1913 is recorded for the first time in Ireland together with the species O. ocellatus (Michael, 1882) as well as three oribatid species: Campachipteria petiti (Trav, 1960), Steganacarus (S.) michaeli Bernini and Avanzati, 1987, and Tectocepheus minor Berlese, 1903. In the oak forest, 15 of the 43 (34.8 %) oribatid species recovered in this stand were unique to arboreal habitats (canopy and trunk) not occurring at the sampled floor, while within the arboreal habitat 5 of these 15 (33 %) species occurred exclusively in the aerial parts. In the yew forest, 21 of the 35 (60 %) oribatid species, were exclusively collected in arboreal niches and within there, 6 of the 21 (28.5 %) species were exclusively collected in the canopy but did not occur at the trunk bases. The fauna inhabiting the canopy (branches) was similar for both forestry stands but clearly distinct from the faunas of the various moss habitats. In addition, those assemblages from arboreal moss habitats were distinctive from the ones at the ground moss in the oak wood stand, showing that assemblages inhabiting the cover epiphyte of the lower trunk are not a subset of the ones in the floor. Diversity was higher in the moss on the soil surface and trunk in the oak woods than in the same habitats in the yew.
24393868|The Slipper Limpet (Crepidula fornicata) was recently found in Northern Irish waters at Belfast Lough during 2009. We compared two techniques for estimating individual age; enumeration of exterior shell check marks (growth bands) and an acetate-peel to enumerate interior shell check marks. Estimates of maximum age based on exterior marks suggested a maximum of 10 year classes whilst interior marks suggested a maximum of 7 year classes (excluding the growth band at settlement). It seems likely that Slipper Limpets arrived in Belfast Lough during or after 2001. Shell size was a good proxy of estimated age suggesting it may represent a 'rapid assessment' method for ageing. The acetate-peel technique is useful in enumerating interior check marks.
25536844|Records of pine martens in Northern Ireland spanning 150 years were collated and 57 forests were surveyed for scats in 2004. Pine martens were historically more widely distributed than at present. Pine marten scats were found at 11 (19%) sites in Fermanagh, Tyrone, Antrim and Down. At a further 9 (15%) sites, morphologically similar fox and stoat scats were found, while the remaining 38 (66%) sites contained no scats attributed to martens. The forests of Fermanagh and Tyrone remain strongholds, but anecdotal evidence suggests the species is still present in other localities where scats were not found.
20764459|The nematode Daniconema anguillae Moravec and Kie 1987, not previously recorded in the British Isles, was found in European Eel (Anguilla anguilla (L.)) in Western Ireland. The possibility that this parasite species may be more widespread in Europe, but undetected, is discussed.
20764411|Payment records for birds and mammals killed as vermin in Co. Antrim, covering nearly 30 years in the 18th century, have been discovered and are presented in this paper. This new source adds to the likelihood that Red Kites were present, and probably throughout the year, in this area of Ireland. Other birds killed include other raptors, Crows, Cormorants and Herons. Mammals killed included Rats, 'Weasels', a single Fox and 501 Otters.
24394184|In recent years, the emergence of the discipline of 'landscape genetics' has proved to be a vital tool in quantifying the effects of landscape features (both natural and man-made) on gene flow in animal species. We applied this methodology to red deer in Killarney National Park (KNP), Co. Kerry, to infer possible barriers to gene flow. Bayesian analysis revealed the presence of two distinct genetic clusters, present on either side of Lough Leane. We discuss possible barriers to gene flow and the management implications of this for red deer in KNP and the wider implications of using landscape genetics in Irish mammalian research.
25537706|A newly exposed roadcut of unusually soft chalk near Whitepark Bay, County Antrim, contains an abundant fauna of Cretaceous foraminifera similar to that described by McGugan (1957). In addition the following species occur and enable precise stratigraphic dating of the deposit as late Campanian to early Maestrichtian:- Bolivinoides decorata australis Edgell, B. delicatulus regularis Reiss, B.. sidestrandensis Barr, B. cf. peterssoni Brotzen, Neoflabellina aff, numismalis (Wedekind), Osangularia lens Brotzen, Eponides cf. concinna Brotzen, Gavelinella thalmanni Brotzen, Lagena acuticosta Reuss, Praebulimina obtusa (d'Orbigny) Cibicides excavata Brotzen, Pyramidina (Reussella) cf. cuschmani (Brotzen), Pseudouvigerina cristata (Marsson), Rugoglobigerina sp. and Globotruncana spp. including G. tricarinata (Quereau), and Globigerinelloides messinae (Brnnimann). The deposit also contains abundant specimens of the problematical form Palinosphaera (?) sphaerica (Kaufmann) as well as ostracodes, fragments of bryozoa, echinoid spines and sponge spicules. While no definite explanation of the unusual softness of the chalk can be established it seems likely to be another derived deposit resulting from post-Cretaceous erosion prior to the extrusion of the overlying Tertiary basalt flows.
25537866|In 1973 Lamprothamnium papulosum (Wallroth) J. Groves (Characeae) was found in Ireland for the first time. Its history as a member of the British flora is discussed here together with a description of the species and some comment on its ecology, with a view to reviving interest in the Characeae, and the possible location of other populations of this species.
25536491|An investigation was carried out on the sponge fauna inhabiting a semi-submerged temperate sea cave at Lough Hyne Marine Nature Reserve, Ireland. The number of each sponge species was recorded at 0.25m vertical intervals (from the high water spring mark to the floor of the cave) at 5m horizontal intervals from the entrance to the back of the cave. Thirty three species of sponge were reported from the cave, the majority of which exhibited encrusting or massive morphologies (shapes). Distribution plots were constructed for the ten most abundant sponge species found within the cave. Many of the species showed zonation patterns in response to vertical depth and horizontal distance into the cave. The study of the sponge fauna in this cave provided further evidence for the mechanisms controlling sponge distributions both inside and outside of caves. These mechanisms include competition for space with algae (controlled by light), aerial exposure and the effect of surge generated flow rate. However, separating or ranking these effects may be difficult (as well as others not considered). The sponge species found within this cave system were very similar to those found locally on the undersides of loose rocks with encrusting and massive morphologies dominating. Similar biological and physical factors may be structuring both loose rock and cave communities that may account for the commonality in sponge assemblages.
41419117|Mink (Mustela vison) carcasses collected from control programmes throughout Ireland examined for cranial helminths; Skrjabingylus spp. (Nematoda) and Troglo trema acutum (Trematoda). Two methods of determining infection were used: external examination of and the necropsy of fresh material. In total 157 mink were examined. External examination of the skulls did not reveal any damage characteristic of infection with cranial helminths. Twenty-one per cent of necropsied mink sinuses contained Skrjanbingylus nasicola, with a low intensity of infection, a mean of 5.33 ( 2.11) worms per infected animal
20764413|Knopper Galls, which adversely affect acorns of native oaks, are caused by the non-native invasive wasp Andricus quercuscalicis. The wasp requires Quercus cerris (Turkey Oak) as an alternate host, and the gall has been known in Ireland since at least 1991, chiefly in the south and east. The first records of the Knopper Gall in Co. Limerick, at some 25 lowland sites in fifteen 10 km squares, are presented. The galls were found in 2006 and 2007 on young and old Q. robur (Pedunculate Oak) and on Q.  rosacea, intermediates between Q. robur and Q. petraea (Sessile Oak); Knopper Galls were not found on Q. petraea. The Artichoke Gall, caused by the native wasp Andricus fecundator, is widespread in Ireland. Previously known in Co. Limerick only from Adare, records are given for it occurring sparingly at four sites in the county on Q. petraea and at one site on Q.  rosacea in 2007.
25536503|A sample of 101 witch Glyptocephalus cynoglossus was collected from the port of Rossaveal, Co Galway, on two different days in February 1999 and March 2000. A number of morphological characteristics were measured and the fish were examined meristically. The fish ranged in size from 24.5 to 36.9cm total length and a head length / total length ratio of 0.125 ( s.d. of 0.009) was recorded. Fin ray range for the dorsal, anal, caudal, pectoral and pelvic fins was determined, as well as the number of gill rakers. Mean numbers of 5.9 pelvic fin rays. 10.8 pectoral fin rays, and 10.85 gill rakers were recorded.
25535943|Between 1986 and 1989, the age structure and growth of thick-lipped grey mullet in Strangford Lough were studied. Due to secondary growth, obscuring the innermost annuli, ages estimated from scales had to be corrected by constructing a length-frequency plot of back-calculated lengths at formation of the innermost visible annuli. A comparision with the otolith ages of a subsample enabled the accurate determination of all ages from scales. The parameters of a von Bertalanffy Curve calculated from the data was found to have the values of 609.42mm. 0.119 and -0.416yr for
24393864|In 1810, the orchid Spiranthes romanzoffiana Chamisso, 1828 was discovered for the first time outside North America, at Castletown Bearhaven in west Co. Cork (H3) in Ireland. Well-known botanists visited this remote area to see the plant, armed with introductions to the local General Practitioner, Dr Philip Andrew Armstrong, who knew its whereabouts. This remained its only known site outside North America until it was found in 1873 and 1874 at two new sites also in Co. Cork.
20764509|Previous analysis of Irish Y-chromosome and mtDNA highlighted a genetic affinity among populations along the Atlantic Faade of Europe. However more recent studies, involving 10 000 genome wide SNP markers appear to show the Irish are typical of other Northern Europeans (such as the Germans, Polish and English). These results suggest that the Irish genome may be a mosaic of regions derived from different migrations and other population demographic events. Selection is one of these processes and is likely to have influenced specific genes in different Europeans populations. As illustration have investigated the signature of selection at the lactase gene in a novel Irish and previously published Italian population. The ability to digest milk into adulthood, which some variants of the lactase gene allow, is thought to have been selected with the advent of dairy economy in Europe. We observe in the Irish evidence of a more extended haplotype flanking both sides of the variants associated with the lactase persistence trait than in the southern European populations. Our results illustrate again that different parts of the genome will have been influenced by different events.
25537812|Extensive shell mounds within the Magilligan dunes are thought to have been formed by high levels of wave energy. There is no field evidence to suggest the mounds are of recent human origin.
25536870|The Irish drosophilid fauna is reviewed. A total of 30 species is now known from the island. New county records are included.
24394123|The taxonomic status of the Irish endemic Hieracium hesperium P.D. Sell (Asteraceae, section Stelligera) has been reviewed. Very little information is available about it and there are few herbarium specimens available. Comparison of the specimens collected in 1891, 1954 and 2006-2009 and cultivated material indicate that plants referable to H. hesperium occur in two sites. However, H. hesperium forms part of the variation within the H. subrubicundum/H. rubicundiforme group and cannot be clearly separated from them in Ireland. Further studies are needed to resolve the identity of the Irish plants, but meanwhile it can be concluded that the maintenance of H. hesperium as a separate species cannot be supported and that it cannot be considered to be a distinct Irish endemic. A lectotype is designated for for H. scoticum var. occidentale F. Hanbury, the name on which H. hesperium is based.
41419035|Twelve fly species are formally added to the Irish list of Diptera, from six families: Mycetophilidae, Sciaridae, Psychodidae, Scatopsidae, Ceratopogonidae, Dolichopodidae. The sites are historic demesnes across five counties of Northern Ireland.
25539796|The status of the marsh fritillary in Ireland is re-assessed, based on comparison between pre and post 1980 distribution data and consideration of what is now known of the biology of this butterfly in Ireland. It is concluded that E. aurinia cannot realistically be regarded as a threatened species in Ireland but that man-induced habitat loss and habitat modification which have caused its decrease elsewhere in Europe are occurring in Ireland. It is recommended that consideration be given to protection of the few Irish sites supporting very large populations of this species, currently regarded as internationally threatened. Attention is drawn to the need for better data on present site management where large populations occur in Ireland and for more information on the controlling effects of predation and parasitization. It is suggested that re-assessment of the international status of this species would be appropriate.
41419211|A review of the known Irish inquiline Cynipidae is given. A total of thirteen species is record from Ireland. New distributional data are presented.
25536171|An oil spill in Cork Harbour in November 1997 killed a minimum of 1524 birds of 17 species. Nearly 91 per cent of these were guillemots and just under 5 per cent were gannets. Two grey seals and one otter also died.
25536506|Lebia cruxminor is an attractive but extremely rare beetle in Ireland, with only three known records. The most recent find has not been fully reported before now and this situation may have led to inaccurate statements in the literature. The purpose of this article is to formally document the precise details of the 1992 record and to discuss the habitat associations of the beetle, particularly from the point of view of its conservation needs.
24394425|Baseline data on ranging behaviour in badgers was obtained using Global Positioning System (GPS) tracking collars on 18 animals. Despite low capture rates, the data demonstrated that these badgers were not disturbed into dispersal by trapping. Many were retrapped frequently, suggesting low stress associated with the trapping process. The badgers had clear territories, but differed markedly in their territory use and ranging behaviour among individuals and at different times of the year. The study represents the preliminary findings of the largest study of badger movements in Ireland to date, and the first to use remote satellite tracking technology.
25536848|Species richness, equitability and diversity of oribatid mite communities were investigated in moss and soil profiles from a young Sitka spruce stand in Co Laois. Despite the great abundance, the richness was lower than the values found in native conifer systems from Canada and equitability measures showed strong dominance in the communities. The Gamasida species found were all widespread typical woodland fauna. The geographic distribution is given for each oribatid species indicating that assemblages are almost totally characterized by holarctic and widespread species. We present three first records of oribatids for Ireland: Inigozetes reticulatus (Prez-igo, 1969), Ramusella (Insculptoppia) elliptica (Berlese, 1908) and Medioppia subpectinata (Oudemans, 1900).
25536759|The reproductive biology of Mysella bidentata was investigated over the period September 1994-November 1995 at two stations in Kinsale Harbour, south coast of Ireland. In total 440 specimens were aged using growth-ring analysis and histologically sectioned. Gametogenesis and spawning activity displayed a time lag of one to several months between stations. Temporal differences in the reproductive cycle decreased as animals aged, with older animals displaying greater synchrony between sites. Gonad maturity indices recorded maximum values at both stations between June and July 1995, followed by a sharp decline indicating concurrent spawning. Gametogenic activity and gonad maturation began earlier in the older age classes and was apparently influenced by ambient temperatures. The timing of the reproductive cycle of M. bidentata in the present work reflected previous studies in Kinsale and other locations, and displayed a general synchronicity over a relatively wide geographic range.
24394128|Populations of European Eel Anguilla anguilla were sampled in two adjacent lakes, Doon Lough Upper and Doon Lough Lower, using earthworm-baited longlines that were deployed using a novel grid-sampling protocol. Minimum estimates of eel density and biomass were obtained. Analysis of these catch statistics and eel size frequencies indicated that the two lakes differed, with the lower lake having higher density but smaller eels than the upper lake, though biomass was similar in the two systems. The invasive, swim-bladder infecting, Asian nematode parasite Anguillicoloides crassus was present in both eel populations and the infection parameters recorded were similar.
25536493|The seed of 14 legally protected vascular plant species was targeted for collection. Over 30 sites were visited with a greater than 50% success rate in relocating species from previous records. Seed was collected from seven of the species; however, only two species yielded adequate seed numbers for a complete base collection. Three other species have the potential to have their collections bulked in future years. Observations on the current status of the species with regards to climatic and management conditions are discussed.
25536205|The Irish gall-inducing Cecidomyiidae are reviewed. A check-list of the known species is provided. Their cecidomyiid inquilines and predators are included. Data on distributions and plant hosts are also given.
20764521|New records of Irish Pteromalidae (Hymenoptera: Chalcidoidea) are presented including seven additions to the Irish fauna: Gastrancistrus fulvicornis (Walker, 1874), Gastrancistrus fulvicoxis Graham, 1969, Gastrancistrus glabellus (Nees, 1834), Gastrancistrus oporinus Graham, 1969, Lamprotatus (Skeloceras) brevicornis Thomson, 1876, Lamprotatus (Skeloceras) truncatus (Fonscolombe, 1832) and Seladerma diffine (Walker, 1833).
25536642|A survey for presence of otters Lutra lutra was undertaken in Cork City (Ireland) over 18 months (2003-2004). Presence of otters has been by sightings and road casualties, and was confirmed by the finding of spraints (otter faeces), holts (otter dens), foot-prints, trails, slides and rest sites. Otters are present throughout the urban area, but there were foci of activity and four holts are present. Breeding may occur within the City. Concerns about threats from road casualties, toxins, oil spills, dogs, and the changes occurring in the management of sewage, are discussed.
20764462|23 species of the microwasp subfamily Platygastrinae, parasitoids in eggs and larvae of gall midges, are recorded from Ireland for the first time. Two of the species, Platygaster hibernica and Synopeas hibernicum, are described as new to science.
25536615|Endoparasite assemblages in yellow eels (N=18) sampled in 1996 from Lough Ardan and in migrating silver eels (N=45) in 1995 from Assaroe Lake, in the River Erne system, were analyzed. The eleven helminth taxa recorded were: Acanthocephalus anguillae, Acanthocephalus lucii, Camallanus lacustris, Paraquimperia tenerrima, unidentified larval nematodes, Diplostomum gasterostei, Diplostomum spathaceum, Crepidostomum farionis, Sphaerostoma bramae, Proteocephalus macrocephalus, Bothriocephalus claviceps. Details of the prevalences and intensities of infection of these parasites in the eel samples are presented and discussed, with reference to the influence of biogeographic and ecological factors that appear to account for the variation in the parasite infra-communities and component-communities of the eels examined.
25537790|Reddened rocks are described from strata of Upper Dalradian age in north-eastern Inishowen. The field occurrence of the reddened strata suggests a diversity of origin whilst their association, at least locally, with thick feldspar conglomerates is considered to be significant, and must indicate either temporary shallowing or strongly oxidizing conditions in the depositional area.
25536033|The results of a study of the spider fauna of the Irish floodplains are presented. The two sampled sites appeared to be equally rich in species but distinctly different in numbers of specimens trapped and thus in densities of the populations of the species. It is also clearly demonstrated that the activities of the spiders (numbers of specimens trapped) is much higher in June that in August. Among the 63 species recorded for the two sites, both of which are situated in Co Offaly, 33 are new county records and one is new to Ireland.
24394187|Using a variety of methods, Bat Conservation Ireland directs yearly monitoring of five of Ireland's bat species. This paper focuses on the All-Ireland Daubenton's Bat Waterways Survey that has involved the first large-scale recruitment of members of the public to a bat monitoring scheme in Ireland. Since 2006 it has grown to include yearly participation by over 400 individuals, many of whom had no prior experience in bats or bat survey methods. This paper looks at the process of volunteer recruitment, training and support used by Bat Conservation Ireland. In addition, in order to validate results collected by volunteers, trials using broadband time expansion detectors were carried out. A comparison of results from time expansion detectors, with sonograms analyzed by a bat specialist, and the results collected by volunteers using heterodyne detectors, shows a high degree of correlation. Consequently, it is concluded that volunteers carrying out the Daubenton's bat survey work are providing robust data on Daubenton's bat occurrence along Irish waterways. We also discuss the cost savings to the two administrations (Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland) by using volunteers and the additional unquantifiable benefits in generating positive publicity for bats and conservation.
25536240|Surveillance of national lake water quality can be a major logistical problem. Ireland has more lakes per square kilometre than any other member of the European Union. This poses particular problems for water quality managers. Only some 30-40 lakes in the state have been studied in any detail and possibly only 250 lakes have had even the most cursory scientific examination. There is therefore an urgent need for a more comprehensive national survey of lakes. The aim of this paper is to place on record the results from physico-chemical analyses of 94 lakes in Cos Donegal, Sligo, Mayo, Galway, Kerry and Wicklow. This work was undertaken as part of an E.U. sponsored remote sensing project, the objective of which was to develop calibrated inversion schemes for the estimation of chlorophyll content in Irish lakes. Physico-chemical results varied greatly between lakes, often reflecting changes in catchment geology. However, following application of cluster analysis to the dataset, it was revealed the 86 per cent of the lakes were closely linked in terms of their physico-chemical characteristics. A further 6 per cent exhibited a reduced level of similarity, while the remaining 8 per cent were disparate, showing no statistical similarity with any other lake sampled. The data presented should be useful to those involved in Irish limnological investigations.
20764522|The presence of two crustacean species new to Ireland was noted at a location in Malahide Marina during a biodiversity survey. Biota was collected from the sides of concrete pontoons lying immediately below the water line. All species present were fixed and then identified to species level. Two species Paradoxostoma angliorum and Monocorophium acherusicum were noted as new to Ireland.
24394429|This paper describes a robust emergence trap that may be used in the field to capture insects emerging from dung substrates, whilst maintaining the specimens intact for identification.
20764504|Ireland after the last ice age had a mammal fauna dominated by predators. This gave rise to what has been called the 'prey gap' and such gaps have been focus for research efforts worldwide. The gap would have been especially important for specialist mammalian predators of mammals such as the wolf, lynx and Irish stoat and the likelihood of non-mammal prey filling this gap is examined. As a community how did these predators survive without rabbits, rats, shrews, voles or deer? This paper explores the mammalian fauna in terms of access to prey, estimated numbers and then biomass to see if the ecosystem could maintain this community.
41419033|The molluscan collections held in the Natural History Division of the National Museum of Ireland represent an excellent collection of the worldwide marine mollusc fauna. A recent project of collections' improvement in partnership with University College Dublin has uncovered new and exciting information about the seashell collections and dramatically improved the accessibility of this collection for researchers. The collection includes more than 15 500 shell 'lots', of which approximately one-third of material was never previously accessioned or documented by the museum. The holdings include significant material from 19th century collectors and exploring expeditions, as well as continuous growth from modern scientists.
25536082|Lighthouse Island (J5985, H38), at the mouth of Belfast Lough, is now a site for the study of migrating and breeding birds (the Copeland Bird Observatory). A survey has been made of the lichen flora of the island and a checklist of 114 species is provided with a brief site description.
25536113|A list of 58 spider species occurring at Pollardstown Fen, Co Kildare, is presented, 52 of which were collected during a recent inventory. Two species are new to Ireland, viz. Pirata tenuitarsis Simon and Centromerus levitarsis (Simon), while 17 species are new to Co Kildare. This superficial inventory of the spider fauna demonstrates the biological importance of the reserve.
20764506|The issue of where, when and for how long a land-bridge or land-bridges, existed between Britain and Ireland at the end of the Ice Age may not be problematical as far as birds and other flying animals such as bats (Mammalia: Chiroptera) and insects (Arthropoda: Insecta) are concerned. Other constraints will have operated (and continue to operate) in limiting the richness of the avifauna of Ireland and in defining its composition. These include the 'Island Effect' - that is the influence of insularity at both the broad biogeographical level (i.e. in terms of limiting species richness through area effects) and in relation to the evolution of life histories (e.g.. the dipper Cinclus cinclus hibernicus which has a lower clutch size, fewer broods per year and higher postfledging survival than populations in Britain and the continent In addition the effect of man appears to have been severe in altering the availability of particular habitats e.g.. destruction of native woodland and the creation of massive areas of open grassland that favour species such as the rook Corvus frugilegus. Nevertheless, the avifauna of Irish woodlands contains at least two apparently distinctive subspecies namely the coal tit Parus ater hibernicus and the jay Garrulus glandarius hibernicus. In addition the fauna of Ireland contains two classical boreal species namely the hooded crow Corvus cornix and the mountain or Irish hare Lepus timidus hibernicus, both of which are widely distributed throughout the island. These and other taxa including for example, some plants and insects, suggest a marked qualitative (species richness) and quantitative (distributional) presence of boreal elements in the biodiversity of Ireland. An important question therefore, is whether or not the explanation for the survival of the boreal element in the island's biodiversity is primarily historical (i.e.. due to the severing of a land-bridge with Britain early in the post-glacial re-colonization process) or dynamic (i.e.. indicating an eco-physiological adaptation to an environment whose conditions have partly persisted from, or are equivalent to, those prevailing during post-glacial times)? This question is addressed from the perspective of the climate regime in Ireland and the relative abundance of terrestrial birds in Ireland, the migratory tendency of bird species in this country and the known reproductive biology of selected avian species. While the failure of the carrion crow Corvus corone and the introduced brown hare Lepus europeas, to successfully displace the hooded crow and mountain hare respectively, from Ireland, suggests a dynamic explanation; the relatively low clutch size of some terrestrial birds in Ireland is perhaps the opposite of what would have been predicted. The results of this investigation are discussed in the context of a possible glacial refugium, behavioural ecology including island effects, and a winter climate which continues to be dominated by heavy precipitation and high average wind speeds.
20764417|The Irish Platygastridae are reviewed by O'Connor et al. (2004). A total of 65 species are known from Ireland, representing over 41 per cent of the British fauna. Recently while visiting the National Museum of Ireland, PNB examined a large collection of Irish Platygastridae collected by JPOC and M.A. O'Connor. The material was identified using Buhl (1999, 2006) and Vlug (1985). This paper reports 17 species new to the Irish fauna and records of other rare species. Unless otherwise stated, the Irish distributional data are taken from O'Connor et al. (2004). Voucher specimens have been presented to the National Museum of Ireland.
41419115|A high density island population of badgers, 27.5 adults km, is described. The methods in the study to capture, anaesthetize and identify badgers, as well as to map territories, detailed. The island had eight main setts and six territories. One territory had three main two of which had small sub-territories. Badgers captured in the initial study, and those dead from 1998-2007, are detailed. The finding of badgers without tuberculosis which unwell (emaciated, with heavy ectoparasite infestations), in buildings is recorded. The implications for badger research and disease management are discussed.
24394186|During 2008 an intensive study of the habitat use of hedgehogs took place in a lowland mixed agricultural landscape in Co. Cork. Fourteen animals were tagged, comprising of nine males and five females. These hedgehogs had a density of 3.07 per hectare (ha) with their activity centred on a 15 ha arable field. A survey of the ground fauna revealed a variation in invertebrate availability throughout this area. Hedgehog activity was concentrated where potential prey was most abundant. There was a seasonal shift in habitat use, with hedgehogs occupying pasture in the early part of the study period, arable land in autumn and scrub once the animals began to enter hibernation.
20764520|In about 1911, a dozen American Grey Squirrels were introduced to Castle Forbes, Co. Longford. By 1997, the population had extended its range to much of Ulster, Leinster and north Tipperary. A distribution survey was conducted to map its more recent range expansion. Grey Squirrels are now widespread in Cos. Wicklow, Wexford, south Kilkenny and south Tipperary, with isolated reports from Cos. Waterford, Cork and Limerick. They are spreading into Co. Donegal, with occasional sightings west of the Shannon. Consideration should be given to establishing a very large conifer forest in west Galway/Mayo that could be managed for both Red Squirrel conservation and commercial forestry.
25536401|A male and a female Irish mountain hare Lepus timidus hibemicus, Bell were radio-collared and tracked over a 12 month period. Resting and feeding were the two most frequent behaviours accounting for 41 and 29 percent of the hares' time. Being alert and moving were the next two most frequent behaviours accounting for 9.5 and 7.9 percent of the hares' time. The hares spent most of the day resting (94.8%) and most of the night feeding (53.7%). Time of day and time of year significantly affected activity budgets of the animals.
20764455|The migrant adult Red Admiral butterfly was observed to successfully overwinter and breed in sheltered areas on Howth Peninsula, Co. Dublin. Eggs, larvae and pupae were monitored from November to May on the larval food plant, the Common Nettle.
24394188|The analysis of ancient DNA from archaeological and paleontological samples has the potential to answer questions about the past directly, thus providing a temporal aspect to modern genetic studies. Ancient DNA has been extracted from over 80 bone and teeth samples, from seven mammalian species located across the Republic of Ireland, and dating to between 40 000 and 500 years. The limiting factor to success is the quality of the starting material and, whereas the age of the sample is not correlated to DNA survival, temperature does appear to be a crucial factor. The highest success rate was in material from cave sites, which exhibit the cold and dry depositional conditions that are best suited to long-term survival of ancient DNA.
24394424|Records of immigrant and other notable moths and butterflies in 2009 are summarized for the island of Ireland, including five moth species new to Ireland.
25536526|This is the first account of the diet of lemon sole in Irish waters. 207 fish were examined for their gut contents from Galway Bay between the period March 1978 and September 1979. The results of the study show that polychaetes were the most important food item. Amphipods were of secondary importance, with molluscs, decapods and fish of minor importance.
25536270|Records are given for sixteen uncommon millipede species in the northern counties of Ireland, 31 of these being new vice-county records. Nopoiulus kochii is added to the Irish list from Belfast, and an account is given of the distinguishing features and known Irish distribution of Anamastigona pulchellum Silvestri, a chordeumatid millipede native to southern Italy. The latter is known as a naturalised introduction to four localities in Co Down and one in Co Antrim and constitutes an addition to the fauna of north-west Europe.
25535906|A collection of Aplysia made by the late Dr Henning Lemche has been examined and the identity of some of the specimens corrected. The distribution of Aplysia species around the British Isles is discussed.
25536247|A dietary analysis was conducted on 144 specimens of Scyliorhinus canicula, caught with commercial bottom-trawl equipment from the Galway Bay area in July and November 1994. Crustaceans were the most commonly recorded prey, but polychaetes, teleosts, and echinoderms were also important in the diet. A total of 15 prey species was identified.
41419037|William Thompson was a Belfast-born naturalist and author of the important four-volume work The natural history of Ireland. This provided the first comprehensive overview of the distribution of the fauna of Ireland and was one of the earliest biogeographical studies in this part of the world. Many records were collected first-hand by Thompson while others were given to him by his contemporaries.
20764414|A comprehensive revision of the marine ostracod genus Paradoxostoma Fischer in British waters by Horne and Whittaker (1985) provided clear diagnoses and illustrations of the species which might be found. Two of the species, Paradoxostoma fleetense and P. robinhoodi, described in that paper, were not noted from Ireland and their occurrence is recorded for the first time here.
25536688|This is the first account of the diet of common sole in Irish waters. Gut contents of 410 fish were analyzed between April 1978 and September 1979. Polychaetes and amphipods were the principal components; molluscs and decapods were of minor importance.
20764457|Irish Systenus alpinus Vaillant are reassessed as the recently described Systenus mallochi MacGowan.
25536173|A detailed survey of potential bat roosts, both in summer and winter was undertaken in an area of 225km in North Co Clare in 1995. All bat species were sought, with a particular emphasis on the lesser horseshoe bat Rhinolophus hipposideros (Bechstein). The results confirm that North Clare is an important area for lesser horseshoe bats, with 990 bats counted in 24 summer roosts and 165 bats in winter roosts. In addition, 1503 individuals of other bat species were recorded in 52 summer roosts in the study area.
25536389|Vegetation, water and soil analyses were carried out along six transects in Scragh Bog, a fen in Co Westmeath, Ireland. The N and P plant tissue concentrations were higher in the buffer zone and the vegetation composition indicated eutraphent species. The available P-concentration in the soil and the N and P concentrations in water were increased in the border zone compared to the central fen samples. This eutrophic border zone is c 5m wide, which appears to be a natural width for this buffer zone. Rapidly growing grasses profit the most from this increase in nutrient availability, but the availability of N is still limiting plant growth. There is no direct threat to the rare fen communities with the present adjacent land use.
25536492|The first Irish occurrences of three dragonfly species, Anax imperator, Anax parthenope and Aeshna mixta, and an influx of Sympetrum fonscolombii in 2000 are documented. Occurrences of all four species in 2001 and 2002 are described, including proof of breeding of Anax imperator and Aeshna mixta. These records are discussed in the context of trends in north-west Europe and presented as circumstantial evidence for the impact of global warming on an element of the Irish fauna.
25536776|Three species of Hydrochus (Coleoptera: Hydrochidae) are recognized from Ireland. One species, H. angustatus, is believed to be extinct. Records of the other two, H. brevis and H. ignicollis, are reviewed, with H. brevis newly-found in the Republic of Ireland.
25536806|The feral ferret Mustela putorius furo is the most recent mammal to be introduced to Ireland. A survey between 1997 and 2001 to determine their distribution recorded them in parts of Cos Monaghan, Tyrone and Armagh. Further work is needed to monitor their range, their health, and their potential impact on native fauna, particularly endangered ground nesting birds.
25536611|A rural badger population was studied from 1990 to 1994, using sett surveys, bait marking and trapping. The population declined, due mainly to road casualties and persecution, from 29 animals in six territories in 1990, to five animals without territories in 1994. There was an unexpected elasticity in some of the territories, and territoriality ceased at a density of less than one badger per km. The implications for badger surveys, and for the problem of transmission of bovine tuberculosis from badgers to cattle are discussed.
24394182|Both Ireland and Britain have lost many large mammal species owing to habitat loss, conflict with humans and hunting for sport, fur or some other commodity. Reintroductions offer an effective way of restoring former indigenous species but, until recently, this has largely involved birds of prey in Ireland and Britain. Re-wilding has been proposed as a way of re-establishing whole mammalian communities in order to restore ecosystems and prevent further extinctions of other species dependent on one or a few keystone species. Pleistocene re-wilding is rejected in this paper as unrealistic but Mesolithic re-wilding is regarded as feasible because virtually all former indigenous species still survive globally or can be replaced by domestic descendants or close relatives. A form of re-wilding, naturalistic grazing, is practiced in some areas in Europe in the mistaken belief that predators have little or no impact on herbivore populations. However, evidence from the reintroduction of wolves to Yellowstone National Park indicates that they have direct impacts through predation and indirect impacts by creating 'landscapes of fear' that exclude herbivores, leading to vegetational and other species' recovery. The terrestrial mammal faunas of Ireland and Britain have been continually changing since late glacial times, partly in response to dramatically changing climatic and environmental conditions, but also owing to the direct and indirect impact of human activities. However, rising sea levels and differing proximities to continental Europe had a profound impact on the composition of the post-glacial mammal faunas of Ireland and Britain which has subsequently affected their natural and anthropogenic development during the Holocene. Our knowledge of faunal change has come primarily from recent advances in the analysis of the fossil and archaeological records as well as phylogeographical studies of contemporary mammal populations although there remain many gaps. Despite these possible deficiencies it seems likely that much of Ireland's terrestrial mammal fauna is introduced but the few natural post-glacial colonizers often represent morphological and genetically distinct forms indicating Ireland is a refugium or centre of endemism in Europe. Curiously, Ireland's post-glacial mammal fauna had a diverse array of large predators and few herbivores - there is no modern comparator of this unique mammalian community so that we can only speculate as to its ecological functioning and stability. With so much of the expected mammalian crew missing from Ireland and the inevitable loss of important mammalian biodiversity that would result from attempts to restore the 'natural' post-glacial mammal fauna what is the future of Ireland's mammals?
41419032|The National Parks and Wildlife Service, Dublin commissioned a review and survey of the conservation status of the Irish endemic Hieracium basalticola (Basalt Hawkweed) based on historical records and field survey. In this paper, the data are summarized. Hieracium basalticola is widespread in the west and north of Ireland from Clare to Antrim, and there are at least 3950 plants in 23 sites. It was not refound in seven historic sites (30% decline). The IUCN threat category is 'least Concern'.
25536612|To date, there is only one published record of the swimming crab Liocarcinus vemalis from Irish waters, collected in 1857 (Ingle and Clark 1998). Beach seining (carried out in May 2003, and September 2002, 2003) revealed that L. vemalis is relatively common on a number of sandy beaches in Cos Galway and Kerry on the west coast of Ireland. L. vemalis specimens were also found among collections of the very similar Liocarcinus marmoreus (Leach) at the Natural History Museum, Dublin. These were collected in Co Galway and date back over 130 years. Possible reasons for the historical scarcity of records of this swimming crab in Irish waters are discussed. The present study emphasizes the value of voucher material in museums, without which, in this case, L. vemalis would have been recorded as a new species in Irish waters and, therefore, as a possible indicator of climate change.
25536869|Contrary to reports of its extinction on Howth Head, Ireland, a substantial population of the xerothermic isopod Acaeroplastes melanurus (Budde-Lund), has been re-discovered at this locality. Its preferred niche is drier (xeric) niches such as growths of the fruticose lichen Ramalina siliquosa (Huds.) Smith on siliceous boulders from the upper shore to about 40m asl. The occurrence of Acaeroplastes melanurus at Howth is anachronistic, the site being over 1300km north of its main range on the Mediterranean littoral with no known intermediate localities on Atlantic coasts. Despite this, there is no evidence for its having been introduced. The Howth population comprises individuals of much smaller size (to 6mm) than is typical of Mediterranean populations (to 12mm) which is probably a response to the large differences in latitude and climate at this northern outlier of its main range.
25536456|Aspects of the life and work of Gregg Wilson (1865-1951) are considered in the context of the 'golden age' when natural history and naturalists' field clubs were flourishing in Ireland and when Queen's College, Belfast was developing into a university. Gregg Wilson was the last Professor of Natural History at Queen's College (1902-1908) and the first Professor of Zoology (1908-1931) at Queen's University and did much work to help the amateur naturalists. The collaborative work of the professional biologists with the amateur naturalists and the links between them at this time suggests that in Ireland at least, there was little evidence of a growing divide between academics and amateurs.
25535902|Data are provided on 29 species of Cynipidae in Ireland. A total of 28 are new to the island, including Andricus corruptrix (Schlechtendal).
25536780|The amphipod Corophium insidiosum is recorded for the first time in Irish waters during a survey carried out on behalf of the National Parks and Wildlife Service. This species is regarded as a lagoonal specialist in Britain and was found at three coastal lagoons (Rostellan W871660, Cuskinny W839674 and Rosscarbery W290367) on the south coast of Co Cork on 11 September 2003, 28 July 2002 and 20 July 2002, respectively. The three sites are described and the suggestion that C. insidiosum is an introduced exotic species is discussed.
25536415|Surveys of harbour seal pup numbers during the pupping season in the principal pupping areas in Co Down, north-east Ireland since 1993 have indicated decreasing numbers of pups since 1996 and instability of pupping groups. Since 1995-96, many mother-pup pairs have been leaving the natal site prematurely, apparently going off to sea taking week-old pups with them. Some entire pupping groups appear to have dispersed about a week after pupping. It is suggested that these phenomena may be related to a paucity of suitable fish prey species available to the seals in the vicinity of pupping sites and also to a relatively poor diet recorded for these seals in recent years.
25536244|The glacial relict crustacean Eurycercus glacialis Lillijebourg was first recorded from Ireland in 1985 (Duigan and Frey 1987). They found this large chydorid at four sites close to Gort, Co Galway, out of 38 sites sampled in the karstic limestone region between Ballyvaughan, Gort and Corofin, Cos Galway and Clare. In 1986, two more locations were discovered in Co Roscommon (Duigan 1988). No further records of the species have been reported since. Five further sites for E. glacialis have now been discovered during the course of an investigation of the ecology of turloughs in south-east Galway.
20764523|In order to record the distribution of Bottle-nosed Dolphins Tursiops truncatus (Montagu 1821) in the inner part of the Shannon Estuary, dedicated boat transects were carried out during the winter (November to March). Bottle-nosed Dolphins were recorded on seven of the ten transects with six of these sightings between Scattery Island and the Tarbert Races and with only one up-river, off Foynes Island. Eighteen individual dolphins were recognized using photo-identification all of which had been previously recorded in the estuary. The results confirm that Bottle-nosed Dolphins do occur regularly in the Shannon Estuary during winter months, with sighting frequency comparable to transects carried out during the summer in other parts of the estuary
24394185|A major challenge is presented to Irish foresters in attempting to balance the demands of society for ever more diverse forests with the need to ensure that our deer populations are maintained in accordance with the range of management objectives and activities which these forests are expected to provide and support. Deer can exert considerable influence, not simply on woodland development and timber quality, but also on a range of other ecological variables that may impact on priority conservation species and habitats. Since forest management is by default also habitat management, sustainably managing deer populations will require foresters and forest owners to equip themselves with the knowledge to plan and manage forests with deer in mind across multiple rotations and at a range of scales from 'leaf to landscape'.
25536807|Three woods in South-east Galway Ireland (H15) are briefly described. The woods have an aggregate area of over 150ha, making them one of the larger woodlands in western Ireland. Despite their size, they are little known and the paper lists their notable features in the hope of promoting further study. The woods are dominated by oak (Quercus petraea and Q. robur) but 17 other tree and large shrub species are recorded. Both dry and wet oak-wood vegetation occurs. A total flora of more than 100 species has been recorded with notable species including Euphorbia hyberna, Cephalanthera longifolia. Equisetum hyemale, Prunus padus and Lathraea squamaria.
41419210|The slipper lobster (Scyllarus arctus (L.)) is recorded for the first time in Irish waters, representing a northward range extension for the species of about 200 km in European and north-east Atlantic waters. Further records are reported from U.K. waters and the distribution and status of Scyllarus arctus in Irish, U.K. and Channel Island waters is reviewed.
25536781|Eleven species of Heteroptera (Arctocorisa carinata, Mesovelia furcata, Bothynotus pilosus, Deraeocoris scutellaris, Lygus maritimus, Orthops basalis, Globiceps fulvicollis, Tytthus pubescens, Orius laticollis, Himacerus boops and Drymus pilicornis) are added to the Irish list.
25536686|Several lakes in the lime-rich area near the Burren and the brackish-water lagoon L. Murree were visited in 2003. In total 12 different species of charophytes were found. Short descriptions of the localities are given and comments made on both the biology and systematics of the species.
41419041|A review of the hydraulic dredge fishery for Pod Razor (Ensis siliqua,) which commenced in the north-west Irish Sea (between Dublin andDundalk Bay) in 1997 is provided. The fishery is poorly documented but data on the approximate distribution of Undings of 2644 tonnes (up to 2008) were assembled. The fishery is pursued mainly inside the 5 m isobath. Harvest is supposed to occur within regulatory 'boxes' whose water quality determines whether it will take place but compliance is poor. The substratum is a fine sandy mud which presents a hard surface. Once penetrated by hydraulic dredging two other bivalve species, Pharus legumen and Lutraria lutraria, already present as small numbers of large individuals when exploitation began, established in greater abundance from Urge spat falls. Being a k-strategist, Pod Razor was fished down with little sign of recovery and the biomass of the larger opportunistic species, L. lu traria, has largely replaced it in areas which have been heavily fished.
25536609|The mustelids found in Ireland are Martes martes (pine marten), Mustela vison (American mink), Lutra lutra (otter), Meles meles (badger) and Mustela erminea hibemica (Irish stoat). A DNA test has been developed to unambiguously identify scat or hair samples by amplification and restriction enzyme analysis of the mitochondrial D-loop region. Sequencing revealed one haplotype for pine marten (Hap p), two for otter (Lut 1 and 2), three novel haplotypes for mink, and one for badger. Three haplotypes were identified for Irish stoat and phylogenetic analysis confirms the position of M. erminea hibemica within the species M. erminea.
41419118|Research on the Irish scelionid fauna and on scelionid types in the Haliday Collection National Museum of Ireland has shown that the genus Verrucosicephalia Szab should be reinstated. The genus contains two definite species: V. laricis (Walker, 1836) and V. rachelae (Mineo, 2004) n. comb. The status of V. depressa Szab, 1975 has yet to be resolved. In addition, Telenomus chloropus (Thomson, 1861) is synonymous with Telenomus turesis Walker, 1836. Irish records are also given. Telenomus othonia Walker, 1836 and T. turesis are new to Ireland.
25537672|Deformed nodular concretions are recorded from the Upper Dalradian of eastern Inishowen. The morphology, mineralogy and tectonic setting of the concretions is described, whilst a few hundred field measurements of major and minor axes of ellipsoidal sections suggest that strain ratios in the order of 3 or 2/1 were the most common. This strain resulted mainly from deformation during the F fold phase and the development of the slaty cleavage, (S).
41419116|Records of immigrant and other notable moths and butterflies in 2008 are summarized for the island of Ireland, including five moth species new to Ireland.
25536470|Measurements and photographs of the angles of the arms of the 4-armed hairs found in the bladders of Irish Utricularia L. species are presented. The data indicate: that drying reduces the angles measured in U. minor L., but not in U. vulgaris L.; that the angles and disposition of the arms of the quadrifids in U. minor and U. vulgaris vary considerably necessitating measurements being made on a number of hairs and a number of bladders; and that the mean angles for Irish species fall within the range of those reported from Britain, but slightly extend their range. Finally, it is shown that whilst U. stygia Thor occurs in Ireland the presence of U. ochroleuca R. Hartman sensu stricto awaits confirmation.
20764464|Two tag recoveries of female Cancer pagurus which had migrated exceptional distances during long periods at liberty are reported. Data are presented to demonstrate that distance moved is a consequence of inter-moult duration whose implications for stock structure and mixing are briefly discussed.
24393866|Specimens of the Asian Clam (Corbicula fluminea) were recorded in the River Shannon at Carrick-on-Shannon in August 2010. This is the first record of the highly invasive clam in this major river catchment. Individuals collected from the littoral zone indicated a population dominated by juveniles, with a mean density of 570 m-2.
24393863|Four alien amphipods are known from Irish freshwaters, these include two North American amphipods Crangonyx pseudogracilis and Gammarus tigrinus. These continue to expand their range, almost certainly aided by the linkage of canals to different river basins, and are locally common.
41419208|Eight days in July 2007 were devoted to investigating the mainly apomictic Rubus fruticosus L. aggregate in parts of Cos Armagh, Down and Antrim. The more noteworthy finds are detailed. They include three species new to the Irish List and two others constituting first records for the northern half of Ireland. One species found in Ireland only once previously, in 1898, was rediscovered.
25536272|The North American freshwater amphipod Crangonyx pseudogracilis was first noted in N. Ireland in the mid-1980s. Here, we show that this invader has spread throughout the lakes and streams of Northern Ireland, being particularly abundant in eutrophic, marginal and polluted waters. Aspects of recent research on the behaviour and ecology of this species are discussed.
20764460|Seven species of Psocoptera (Atlantopsocus adustus, Elipsocus moebiusi, Epicaecilius pilipennis, Peripsocus milleri, Philotarsus parviceps, Pseudopsocus rostocki and Trichadenotecnum sexpunctatum) are added to the Irish list and records are provided of 26 further species from six historic demesnes across Northern Ireland.
25536418|The status and breeding performance of the peregrine falcon at natural cliffs (inland and coastal) in south-east Ireland between 1981 and 2001 is presented. Coastal breeding numbers increased slightly in the early years of the study but then declined, probably because of disturbance.
25536364|Howard Hudson's hitherto unpublished 'Flora of Alexandra Road District', consisting of an annotated list of 114 taxa, is essentially a Flora of Dublin Port in the mid-1930s. This Flora is of interest because there is relatively little historical information about plants at Irish ports. The list has been reproduced in full, with names updated as necessary and comments added to put the records in context. Many of the taxa are native and common. However, the nearly 40 records of grain aliens and arable weeds are of particular value (including an early record of Conyza canadensis) as only 12 of the alien plant species listed by Hudson have been seen at Dublin Port in more recent times.
24393869|Telenomus laeviusculus (Ratzeburg) and Telenomus lopicida Silvestri (Hymenoptera: Scelionidae) are recorded new to Ireland. Neither has been previously recorded in the British Isles. Records are also given for some other rare Irish scelionids.
25536505|Age determination of eels is largely based on the use of otoliths, and has been highly controversial, with a variety of ageing techniques and interpretations in current use. A comparative study was carried out on 100 eels from the River Shannon system. The eels sampled were representative of populations from littoral and riverine sites and ranged in length from 94mm to 354mm. The otoliths were processed using the burning and cracking technique and by clearing in creosote. A comparison of the results indicated that both methods yielded similar results for the eels sampled, and indicated the suitability of the clearing method for use in future Irish studies, especially those that included large numbers of small eels.
24394431|The status of the Pearl-bordered Fritillary has recently been listed as being endangered in Ireland. The vast majority of reported sightings of this butterfly have been from a very limited area within a radius of 10 km from Clooncoose area in the Burren Co. Clare, the first known site for the species in Ireland. This paper reviews the information available from its discovery 90 years ago to the present.
25536059|Gravel samples were extracted from nine salmonid spawning fords on the River Bush, Co Antrim by a freezing sampling technique. An excess of fine material was found in the majority of the samples and this was shown to be strongly correlated with reduced gravel permeability. The data indicated that siltation appeared to be more pronounced moving down the catchment.
20764517|Historical records for two Irish donaciine beetles, Donacia dentata and Donacia semicuprea, from Lough Crincaum on Cromaglan Mountain, Co Kerry are considered anomalous. A third rarely recorded Irish donaciine, Plateumaris bracata, has also been recorded from the area. The site was visited in August 2008 to investigate the suitability of the habitat for these three species. None of the beetle species was found and it was confirmed that the foodplants of both D. dentata and D. semicuprea were absent. For this reason, neither of these records is considered acceptable. Consequently, we recommend that D. dentata is removed from the Irish list. However, the host plant for P. bracata was recorded at Lough Crincaum and this historical record is accepted.
20764501|Some of the keys to understanding the postglacial colonization of Ireland lie in our detailed knowledge of the timing and nature of environmental change. Recent improvements in palaeoenvironmental reconstructions and in dating methodologies have led to a greater degree of understanding but there is still a paucity of dated sites and detailed timing for periods of rapid environmental changes.
25535989|The aplysillid sponge Hexadella racovitzai Topsent, 1896 is reported for the first time from the British Isles. A description is given of its habitat and external appearance and its distribution is reviewed.
25536867|Over the past decade, many studies have reported and investigated the causes of the observed global decline in amphibian populations. The natterjack toad Bufo calamita is one of three amphibian species found in Ireland and the least widespread, being naturally confined to coastal areas in Co Kerry. The natterjack's distribution in Ireland has largely contracted since the species was first recorded in 1805. As with many other amphibian species worldwide, natterjacks are mainly threatened by habitat loss and fragmentation. Whilst studies are needed to better assess threats to natterjacks in an Irish context, the species is most likely threatened by changes in land usage. Here we also detail a number of threats that are of secondary importance for the viability of toad populations in Ireland.
41419039|Three species (Hydropsyche fulvipes Curtis, 1834, H. saxonica McLachlan, 1844 and Ecclisopteryx dalecarlica Kolenati, 1848) are added to the Irish list while one species (Ecclisopteryx guttulata (Pictet, 1834)) is deleted.
24394433|The presence of Small Skipper Thymelicus sylvestris in Ireland is confirmed and details of the site in Co. Kildare are provided. Distinguishing features for Small Skipper and the Essex Skipper are provided.
25537474|A sequence of variously coloured sandstones and mudstones is described. This rests unconformably on Lower Palaeozoic strata and has a faulted contact with Lower Carboniferous limestones.
25536400|Experimental and commercial yellow eel Anguilla anguilla fyke net fishing crews and silver eel fishing crews operating on the River Shannon system were surveyed between 1992-1998. Analyses of fishing reports recorded by both fishing crews and student observers indicated that some avian and mammal fatalities were recorded over this six year period. In general, wildlife bycatch levels were low, with a total of seven birds and 18 mammals killed. These fatalities involved, among others, the cormorant Phalacrocorax carbo and the mink Mustela vison, a species considered to be a pest by many. Of greater interest perhaps are the otter Lutra lutra fatalities, as this species, though still common in this country, is considered rare or threatened in the European Union as a whole.
24394423|Sampling for aquatic macro-invertebrates on Sherkin Island during September 2004 and 2005 produced 19 species of Heteroptera including a notable record of Corixa affinis Leach. Several species characteristic of brackish, base rich conditions were recorded consistent with a marine influence at many sites.
20764458|New records of Irish Pteromalidae (Hymenoptera: Chalcidoidea) are presented including three additions to the Irish fauna: Gastracanthus pulcherrimus Westwood, 1833, Syntomopus thoracicus Walker, 1833 and Toxeuma acilius (Walker, 1848).
24394183|Under the EU Habitats Directive, Ireland is obliged to maintain all species of cetacean at favourable conservation status. To date, 24 species have been recorded within the Irish Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) which extends up to 200 nautical miles (360 km) offshore. In order to achieve this objective different monitoring techniques are required depending on the distribution, behaviour and characteristics of the species of interest. Here we review a range of techniques and explore their benefits and constraints with recommendations on which may be most appropriate.
25536641|Presented in this paper are records of aquatic beetles compiled from a survey of Connemara National Park carried out in 2001 and 2003. The aim of the survey was to compile a list of the aquatic beetle species in the Park, particularly in upland areas as these are seldom visited by coleopterists. Brief remarks are given on the more notable records.
25536169|Wetland mollusc faunas from 12 sites on the three Aran Islands of Inishmore, Inishmaan and Inisheer in Galway Bay are described. In total, the wetland fauna recorded comprised 23 species, with individual sites ranging from 2 to 14 species. Molluscan richness correlated significantly with the richness of vascular plants at the sites. Ordination analysis of the fauna identified three ecological groups that can be related to different hydrological regimes and in particular the degree of fluctuation in water level, and water depth. The presence of the internationally rare succineid snail Catinella arenaia is confirmed on Inishmore and Inishmaan. This species is shown to be characteristic of a group of sites which show no evidence of major fluctuation in water level, and whose plant communities are characterized by relatively high diversity and a rich Carex flora. The distribution of this species on the islands is described and the significance of its disjunct wider distribution in Ireland explored in terms of environmental history and conservation.
25536711|The flora of a small island in the Shannon Estuary is described, where only 19 vascular plant species were found over a 20 year period. One of the plants was a tussock-forming Puccinellia, which was confirmed as an extreme growth form of P. maritima (Huds.) Parl. Such plants and other robust growth forms of P. maritima had been reported from the Shannon and Fergus Estuaries, Strangford Lough and the Co Down coast in the early 20th century variously as 'Glyceria festucaeformis (Atropis festucaeformis)' and 'Glyceria foucaudi[i] (Atropis foucaudi[i])'; the history of these plants and their names is unravelled. Tussock-forming P. maritima favours stony shores overlying boulder clay, and the distribution is given of this growth form in Ireland.
41419120|This paper reports on the distribution and abundance of the holly blue butterfly (Celastrina argiolus) as recorded through the Irish Butterfly Monitoring Scheme over the years 2007, 2008 and 2009.
25536663|Recognized for his entomological work in Ireland, it is perhaps not realized by many naturalists that Halbert was also an important acarologist, in fact the leading worker on mites that Ireland has produced. He was at the forefront of both entomology and acarology in Ireland for half a century (1890s to 1940s) and is regarded as an important pioneer. This paper deals with his contribution to Irish natural history, with particular reference to mites. In the field of acarology, Halbert remains an international figure.
41419206|The bottlenose dolphins in Cork Harbour were studied using photo-identification to monitor individual dolphins and to assess whether they were resident in the area or transients. Landbased observations were carried out, to examine how the occurrence of dolphins varied over time and were influenced by the tidal cycle.
24394426|The first Irish record of a Columbus crab found in association with a stranded Loggerhead Turtle is described.
24394129|This study occurred within the wider context of an ongoing research programme to improve knowledge of the Irish distribution of members of the very large, mainly apomictic Rubus fruticosus aggregate. The relatively isolated Slieve Bloom Mountains, extending across counties Laois and Offaly, were selected for intensive investigation. A series of one-day collecting trips, conducted during 2007-2010, yielded fifty-one different taxa and included three species new to Ireland. Three further entities were recorded, which although not yet described as species, have sufficiently wide distributions in Ireland to qualify for full-scale taxonomic recognition at a future date.
41419034|An attempt is made to review the past and present status of aquatic acarology in Ireland. J. N. Halbert's work is of particular note. Although several families of mites live in the marine littoral, only the marine mites (Halacaridae) are considered here. Larval freshwater mites, which occur as parasites on insects and other invertebrate groups, are referred to. A comprehensive bibliography is included.
20764415|Despite A.H. Haliday's pioneering work on the Thysanoptera and their economic importance, no Irish checklist has been published until the present work. This paper reviews the Irish thrips and provides information on the distributions and hosts of the 40 known species.
41419036|A juvenile female specimen of the Lesser-spotted Dogfish (Scyliorhinus caniculaj caught off the coast of Dublin, Ireland, during the spring of 2008, exhibiting the characteristics of total albinism, is described. Previous cases of albinism in elasmobranchs are reviewed.
24393865|The lumbricid earthworm Prosellodrilus amplisetosus Bouch, 1972 is reported for the first time from Ireland. One mature individual was found in an arable field, on gley loam soil, in Co. Louth. Since the endemic range of P. amplisetosus comprises the Aquitaine area in south-eastern France, this record probably reflects human-mediated introduction.
25536416|A dietary analysis was conducted on 254 commercially caught spiny dogfish, between September 1997 and September 1998. Fish formed the majority of the diet, with a total of eight species recorded. Scomber scombrus and Limanda limanda were the most important fish species, and bite marks on the recovered items indicate that the former were attacked from behind, while the latter were attacked from the side. Cephalopods were the only other prey recorded, and were represented by two species, Octopus vulgaris and Eledone cirrhosa. The prey recovered indicates that spiny dogfish feed throughout the water column, as well as on the bottom, and over a variety of substrates. The amount of prey recovered on a monthly basis was variable, but it is unclear if this is due to variations in feeding intensity or to the method of specimen collection.
24394432|One hundred fly fishers in Ireland were asked about accidents with bats, sixty two reported them but details were elusive. This is put in context by what is known about bat species that have been recorded in such accidents in Ireland and elsewhere.
25536868|The habitat preferences of vespertilionid bats in a forested landscape in south-western Ireland were quantified by acoustic surveys within specific habitats along a transect. Utilization of habitats differed among species. Myotis mystacinus favoured habitats with some component of broad-leaf woodland in addition to riparian habitat. M. daubentoni and Pipistrellus pygmaeus were found to have a close association with river and lake, and the habitats adjacent to them. P. pipistrellus was less selective and used habitats in proportion to their availability. This study underlines the importance of semi-natural habitats such as water bodies, broad-leaf woodland edge and treelines to bats in the Irish landscape.
25536246|Pearlside Maurolicus muelleri (Gmelin, 1788) is a small shoaling fish widely distributed in water deeper than 200m to the west of the British Isles. Occasional captures have been made during research surveys in the Irish Sea. The occurrence, distribution and size composition of pearlside in research trawl catches since 1991 are described.
25536081|The present vegetation of the western slope of Slieve Muck in the eastern Mournes is dominated by wet rough-grassland whereas the eastern slope is predominantly heather-clothed. Near the summit the vegetation is sparse grassland. It was postulated that the floristic composition of the present vegetation may be influenced by over-grazing by sheep. A pollen analytical investigation of a number of short peat profiles from the east and west faces of Slieve Muck was carried out to trace vegetation changes over approximately the last five hundred years. The results of the study show that the vegetation on either slope has changed little over the last half millennium with scant evidence to indicate an increasingly depauperate flora resulting from increasing pastoral activity.
25536616|The first occurrence of the water beetle Hydrovatus clypealis in Ireland is reported. Two species, Ochthebius nanus and Limnebius aluta, are deleted from the Irish Coleoptera list and attention is drawn to an error concerning the occurrence of Ochthebius poweri in Ireland.
25536206|Palaemon elegans Rathke occurs on less exposed shorelines than P. serratus (Pennant). It accounts for less than 1 per cent of the commercial shrimp landings by number and less than this by weight. P. elegans achieves smaller size than P. serratus and occurs among the lower and less valuable commercially graded shrimp. Like P. serratus it takes two years to complete the life cycle; female P. elegans are berried later in the year than the larger species.
41419209|Records of immigrant and other notable moths and butterflies in 2007 are summarized for the island of Ireland.
20764461|Nest site characteristics of the Barn Swallow were recorded during a study on breeding biology carried out between 2002 and 2006. When compared with other studies, some differences were noted in the relative height of nests within buildings and in the relative distances of nests from the building entrance and from the wall. These are believed to result from differences in building type rather than differences in preference by the birds. Light levels at nests were similar in range to that found in other studies, although more were placed in slightly darker sites.
20764515|Badgers found on an island, Rutland Island, Co. Donegal were investigated. When compared with Badgers from the Donegal mainland they are significantly smaller in both length and weight. Twenty-eight setts were found in a survey in 1998 and fifteen Badgers were trapped in 1999. GPS was used to map and re-locate setts and latrines. Bait-marking in 2003 showed that there were two social groups on the island at that time. The results are discussed with reference to the Badgers' adaptation to the island, their population structure, use of setts and the research opportunities, for both Badger management and conservation, on the island.
25536204|Eight intertidal sandflats on the coast of Ireland were sampled for non-aquatic Coleoptera in 1991 and 1992. Three staphylinids (Bledius subniger Schneid., Diglotta mersa (Hal.), D. sinuaticollis (Muls. & Rey)), two carabids (Cillenus lateralis (Sam.), Dyschirius impunctipennis Daws.) and one heterocerid (Heterocerus flexuousus Steph.) were recorded. Diglotta sinuaticollis has not been previously recorded in Ireland. Irish records for Bledius fergussoni Joy, B. subniger and both Diglotta species are reviewed. All six species occurred at Inch, Co Kerry, indicating the conservation importance of this site.
25534962|A shell bed in the Lower Cenomanian glauconite sands of Carr's Glen, near Belfast, contains the following fauna:- Ammonites: Schloenbachia subvarians Spath, S. intermedia (Mantell), S. subtuberculata Sharpe: Foraminifera: Rheophax sp., Arenobulimina anglica Cushman, Arenobulimina sp., Gaudryina cf. laevigata Franke. ?Gaudryina (Tritaxia) aff. macfadyeni (Cushman), Pyrulina cylindroides (Roemer), Guttulina cf. adhaerens (Olszewski), Lenticulata rotulata Lamarck, Planularia cf. pulavensis umbonata Pozaryska, P. dissona (Plummer), Planularia sp., Marginulina cf. austinana Cushman, M. jonesi Reuss, Saracenaria triangularis (d'Orbigny), Frondicularia inversa Reuss, Frondicularia sp., Palmula suturalis (Cushman), Citharina gracilina Marie, C. recta (Reuss), Citharina sp., Vaginulina daini Schijfsma, Nodosarina affinis Reuss, Dentalina basiplanata Cushman, D. cf. proteus Reuss, Gavelinella sp., Anomalina sp. The above microfauna has a number of genera and species in common with those recorded from the Chalk Marl of England. Absence of pelagic index foraminifera is attributed to a restricted environment close to shore with attendant poor preservation.
20764463|Records are presented of two snail-killing flies (Diptera, Sciomyzidae) new to Ireland: Colobaea pectoralis (Zetterstedt, 1847) and Pherbellia dorsata (Zetterstedt, 1846). The identification and habitat associations of these species are discussed.
24393862|Arenaria norvegica subsp. norvegica was re-discovered in Ireland in 2008 after an absence of 47 years. A detailed survey in 2009 revealed a small population restricted to skeletal soils on the edges of limestone pavement. A norvegica subsp. anglica occurs in an almost identical habitat in Northern England. Irish plants also appear to flower at least a month earlier and produce more infloresences than in Britain. These differences warrant further investigation given the isolation of the Irish population. That it remained undetected for so long is remarkable and cautions against declaring a species as 'extinct' even in such a well botanized locality as the Burren.
25536662|The growth dynamics of the infaunal bivalve, Abra alba (Wood) were investigated in Kinsale Harbour on the south coast of Ireland, between September 1994 and September 1996 using modal progression analysis. A total of 1674 individuals of A. alba were returned from one inner harbour site. Seven length class cohorts were identified. The findings suggest that the initial growth of individual cohorts differs throughout the year, with individuals spawned in spring growing faster than those spawned in autumn. Modal progression analysis indicates a lifespan of 12-18 months. A maximum length of 12.1mm was recorded. According to the von Bertalanffy growth function, length at relative age t is:
20764524|Records of immigrant and other notable moths and butterflies in 2006 are summarized for the island of Ireland. This was an exceptional year for migrant and vagrant species, and at least nine Lepidoptera species new to Ireland were recorded.
25535925|Papers published in The Irish Naturalists' Journal, from 1925 to 1994 which were primarily concerned with the marine ecology of Ireland, were reviewed and a summary, keywords, species list and location entered onto a database. The number of marine-related papers has tended to increase, with the exception of 1940 and 1941 when none were published due to the effects of World War II. At first, most authors had non-institutional Northern Ireland addresses. More recently, authors from educational institutes in the Republic of Ireland contributed most papers. About 12-21% of authors contributed 54-58% of the papers. The authors N. McMillan (on molluscs), A. E. J. Went (on fish) and D. T. G. Quigley (on fish) made the greatest contributions from 1925-1946, 1947-1970, and 1971-1994 respectively. The most frequently recorded taxa were fish, molluscs, crustaceans and algae, and most records were in the form of species lists or concerned with species distribution. The geographical coverage of papers suggested that the north-western and northern coasts from Slyne Head to Fair Head had received only half the attention of the rest of the Irish coast.
20764516|The sex of calves is difficult to distinguish in a hunting situation and any difference in sex ratio in harvest statistics will likely be due to factors other than hunter preference. We examined calves harvested in various situations during a study of a harvest of Sika-type deer and found that a bias towards females existed when calves were harvested along with a hind, presumed the dam. We conclude that female calves are more vulnerable to harvesting than are males in this situation. The behavioural differences that may account for this and management implications are discussed.
25536433|A survey of the marsh fritillary butterfly population in Northern Ireland was undertaken in 1999. Eight definite colonies of marsh fritillaries were confirmed by web counts. Most colonies were found on unmanaged wetland sites. East Down was identified as a key area for the species in Northern Ireland. No trends can be ascribed to the Northern Ireland population but previous published estimates are considered too high. There appears to have been a shift in the population towards the south and east. Recommendations are made for further survey, monitoring and research of the species in Northern Ireland.
24394126|The CrBeo project investigated biodiversity in Irish soils and provided data on the distribution, diversity and indicator value of a range of micro- and macro-organisms. In this paper we present data on the oribatid and gamasid (or mesostigmatid) mites (Arachnida, Acari) found in the survey. More than 100 taxa of mites were collected from 48 sites distributed across Ireland. The sites were selected to represent the major soil types and land uses (i.e. arable, pasture, forest, rough grazing and bogs). Mite abundance and species richness varied significantly between land uses but the pattern across land uses differed between oribatids and mesostigmatids. Oribatid abundance also differed between soil types and was positively correlated with soil organic matter. The genus Astegistes, as well as the species Limnozetes amnicus and Quadroppia pseudocircumita (all oribatids), are recorded for the first time in Ireland and some comments on their biology and distribution are provided.
24394427|The Painted Lady is a migratory butterfly that arrives in Ireland each year but cannot survive Irish winters. It is not known with certainty whether the Irish populations originate from North Africa (where they can survive during winter) or from a Europe-born generation. This paper describes the Painted Lady migration of 2009 highlighting the large arrival at the end of May. It appears that only a small proportion of these butterflies successfully reproduced that summer. Records from the May migration were used in 24 hour back-trajectory analyses to investigate the origin of this migration. These analyses showed that the butterflies probably travelled through France, England and/or Wales, before arriving in Ireland.
25536590|Lowland turloughs in the Galway area were sampled for corixids in the period immediately following autumn flooding. Samples were also taken for comparison from an adjacent permanent lake, Lough Corrib. Species distributions are discussed in relation to habitat size and stability. The distributions of Sigara falleni and S. fallenoidea were found to be mutually exclusive. Records of corixid species from previous studies in the area are reviewed. The high incidence of nymphs in the turloughs suggests retarded development in these habitats. The opportunity for colonization of the turloughs by corixids in the autumn period is believed to be limited by weather conditions.
25536118|Although the terms 'reefs' is commonly associated with tropical coral structures, numerous studies have shown the existence of reef-structures in temperate latitudes, mostly constructed by polychaete worms. Although a number of different genera in a range of families are known to construct such reefs, perhaps the best known examples are constructed by sabellariid polychaetes. In a survey of published records, Kirtley and Tanner (1968) found that sabellarian reefs are encountered between the latitudes of 72N and 53S, demonstrating their world-wide significance. Within European waters, two species of Sabellariidae construct structures large enough to be called reefs. Sabellaria spinulosa Leuckart constructs small reefs, up to 0.4m in height and mainly occurs in the subtidal, while S. alveolata (L.) constructs larger reefs and is mostly found in the intertidal (Gruet 1986, Wilson 1971), although in the western Mediterranean and in the Severn Estuary (Bristol Channel, United Kingdom) it forms subtidal reefs (Gruet 1986, Mettam et al. 1994).
20764508|Ireland exhibits the highest incidence in Europe of a number of genetic disorders. The gene variants causing these diseases either were carried into Ireland by population incursion(s) or originated within the Irish population. Their age, evolution and population history can be investigated using geographic distribution patterns and by the analysis of genetic markers associated with them. Taken together with results from the study of neutral lineage-specific DNA markers in human and other animal and plant species, molecular genetic studies of inherited disease provide a new and valuable 'window' on the post glacial history of Ireland.
24393867|The Irish scale-insect fauna (Hemiptera: Coccoidea) is reviewed. Data are provided on 48 species of which six are recorded new to the island. The occurrence of Aspidiotus nerii Bouch is confirmed. Altogether there are 25 native species; six non-native species naturalised outdoors; nine non-native species established on indoor plantings and five non-established introductions. There are records of three species which the authors believe are incorrect or misidentifications. Many of the Irish records are very old and therefore, it is uncertain that some reported species are still extant in Ireland.
25536685|At least 30 new sites with Vertigo geyeri have been found in Ireland during fieldwork from 1999 to 2004. These more than double the number of localities previously known and thus reinforce evidence that Ireland is a stronghold for this vulnerable species. They include the first records from Northern Ireland and far more sites from western coastal counties than hitherto known. The large number of additional localities and the varied range of habitats represented have implications for our understanding of its status, habitat requirements and conservation management.
25536324|Growth in brown trout Salmo trutta (L.) sampled from both the River Main and Lough Neagh was estimated from back-calculated length-at-age data. Growth rates for both non-migratory river trout and migratory lake trout were found to be significantly higher than might have been anticipated whether compared with data from earlier studies from the same waters or with the body of knowledge on trout growth previously reported for Irish rivers and lakes.
20764412|Thresher Sharks appear to be relatively scarce and infrequently recorded from Irish waters. Alopias vulpinus has only been recorded on 16 occasions from inshore waters and A. superciliosus only once from offshore waters. The current paper summarizes details on all known records.
41419040|The rediscovery of seven wood-decay (saproxylic) beetles is reported, all having been added to the Irish List in excess of 70 years ago but not reported since. The new sites are all ancient woodlands and/or historic demesnes, and the species are mostly associated in Britain with old growth conditions. The implications are discussed.
25536436|Between 1849 and 1902, Queen's College had three professors of natural history - George Dickie (1812-1877), Charles Wyville Thomson (1830-1882) and Robert Oliver Cunningham (1841-1918). All were Scottish born and trained in medicine at Edinburgh. Alone they carried out the teaching of botany, zoology and geology and laid the foundation of the museum collections. They published widely in their specialist fields and two of them became Fellows of the Royal Society. This is an account of their lives and work and includes their contribution to Irish natural history.
41419207|Between 1906 and the mid-1950s fames Parsons Burkitt, a mathematician and engineer by training, kept a notebook in which he recorded his observations of birds. Analysis of the notes gives information about his bird-watching activities. He made observations principally in County Fermanagh and, before he retired as County Surveyor in 1940, he availed of opportunities provided by his official duties to indulge his hobby. Burkitts interest in birds developed from shooting and egg-collecting, and culminated in detailed recording of breeding behaviour and song. 130 species are accounted for, but only a very few notes relate to the garden robin, which was the subject of his famous field-study between 1924 and 1926.
25536032|A feral population of mandarin duck and its habitat in the valley of the Shimna River, Co Down was studied from 1990 to 1995. The adult population varied from 21 to 27 and productivity was low with between two and six young reaching the age of two months each year. Habitat requirements were satisfied by an abundance of mature deciduous trees, especially oak and beech, which offered cavities for nesting and seeds for winter food. Aquatic feeding was limited with the impoverished aquatic invertebrate fauna important in limiting recruitment. Habitat data over an 8km radius of surrounding countryside indicated that opportunities for expansion are restricted to one main area.
25535844|A check-list of 14 established species and three probably adventitious species of Irish Sarcophagini (Sarcophagidae) derived mainly from a collection of 3472 specimens is presented. Comments on the local and national abundance of each species and its relationship to the faunas of neighbouring countries are accompanied by the limited information available on the breeding habits of the species.
24394125|A total of 117 stoats was examined for damage by Skrjabingylus nasicola. Of these 70.11 per cent showed clinical signs of skrjabingylosis. The presence of the parasite was found across all age groups and between sexes. Adult stoats were more likely to be infected than juveniles, but differences in infection rates were not detected relating to sex or location. Male stoats presented with higher levels of infection than females, although the difference between the sexes was not statistically significant. When located, the number of nematodes in the soft brain tissue of each animal ranged from 1 to 87. How this parasite will respond to the presence of introduced small mammals in Ireland, is speculated upon.
25536276|The third confirmed record of the shortfin mako shark and the first records of the pelagic stingray in Irish waters are presented. Morphometric measurements were collected for both species, and a parasitic investigation yielded two species of copepod new to Irish waters.
