41425610|Fire represents an important recruitment phase for many chaparral species. Prescribed burns are often scheduled during winter or spring when soil moisture is high in order to minimize risks of uncontrolled fire. However, chaparral wildfires typically occur in the summer or fall when soil moisture is low. Changing the seasonality of burn affects pre-burn soil moisture, burn temperature and timing of germination. High soil moisture during winter or spring burns is hypothesized to lower germination rates of chaparral plants compared to fall burns. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of prescribed spring burns on the germination of chaparral species in the Mendocino National Forest, California. We conducted two experiments to test for effects of moisture on seed germination. In the soil heating experiment, soil collected under chaparral was heated at several temperatures and soil moistures, and germinating seeds were counted. In the seed heat treatment experiment, seeds of 13 species were heated moist and dry to determine the moisture effect on heated seeds. Results indicate a differential response of seeds to heat and soil moisture. Lotus humistratus, Daucus pusillus and Penstemon heterophyllus were negatively affected by temperature in both moist and dry treatments. Ceanothus cuneatus and Genista monspesullana germination increased with temperature in both dry and moist treatments. Germination of six species (Adenostoma fasciculatum, Camissonia contorta, Emmenanthe pendiflora, Epilobium ciliatum, Galium aparine and Malacothrix clevelandii) decreased under moist heat treatments. These results suggest that spring burns may lead to decreased diversity of chaparral due to reduced seed survival and germination of certain species.
41424726|The Streptanthus morrisonii complex is a six-taxon group of closely related serpentine rock outcrop endemics from Lake, Napa, and Sonoma counties of California, USA. Two new subspecies (S. morrisonii subsp. kruckebergii and S. brachiatus subsp. hoffmanii) from Lake County, California, are described. The relationship of these taxa to others in the section is reviewed and descriptions and a key are provided.
41425410|Swallenia Soderstr. & H. F. Decker es un gnero endmico de California, Estados Unidos de Amrica, extremadamente raro, tiene afinidades taxonmicas inciertas y se encuentra en peligro de extincin. Se presentan observaciones de morfologa, anatoma foliar y micromorfologa de la lema. Muestra una estructura "Cloridoide", anatoma Kranz tipo PCK o PEP-ck y subtipo XyMS + . La lmina foliar, vista en seccin transversal, es nodular debido a que ambas superficies, abaxial y adaxial, tienen surcos profundos. El clornquima es continuo entre haces vasculares contiguos. Las clulas de parnquima incoloro, comunes en la subtribu Monanthochloinae, estn ausentes. La vaina externa del haz es redonda. La epidermis, en vista superficial, carece de papilas y los estomas estn confinados a los surcos y estn cubiertos por aguijones y una clula "papiliforme" intercostal. Las clulas cortas costales se distribuyen en largas hileras de hasta 15 clulas o ms. Los caracteres observados en la lema tienen correlacin con los de la lmina foliar, sin embargo, no muestran un patrn definido. Se describe su habitat y se hacen algunas consideraciones adaptativas. Las caractersticas anatmicas no apoyan la ubicacin del gnero Swallenia en la subtribu Monanthochloinae. Swallenia Soderstr. & H. E. Decker is a rare genus, with uncertain taxonomic affinities, endemic to California, USA and endangered. Morphology, leaf blade anatomy and lemma micromorphology are presented. It shows a "Chloridoid" structure, Kranz anatomy PCK or PEP-ck type and XyMS+ subtype. The leaf blade, as viewed in transverse section, is nodular because abaxial and adaxial surfaces have deep grooves. Chlorenchyma is continuous between adjacent vascular bundles. Colourless parenchyma cells, that are common in the Monanthochloinae subtribe, are absent. Outer bundle sheath is round. In the epidermis, as seen in surface view, papillae are absent and stomata occur in the grooves and are obscured by prickles and an intercostal "papilliform" cell. Costal short cells are arranged in rows to 15 cells or more. Lemma micromorphology characters are correlated to those of the leaf blade, but they do not show a characteristic pattern. Habitat and adaptative considerations are described. The anatomical characters do not support the placement of Swallenia genus as belonging to Monanthochloinae subtribe.
41424721|The pattern of anthocyanin pigmentation on flower petals of species of Clarkia sections Rhodanthos and Godetia is reviewed. The petals have large spots, blotches, or bands of red-purple color near the base, the center, the upper margin or in several positions, or are unspotted. A recent genetic analysis in C. gracilis revealed that the large central petal spot characteristic of subsp. sonomensis is allelic to a basal petal spot in subsp. gracilis that is normally not expressed because of the action of a modifier gene. Since Clarkia species display only a small number of discrete pigmentation patterns, I suggest that the major components of pattern differences among them are not complex from a genetic standpoint. Novel patterns can be assembled by substituting aleles at relatively few loci. Additional genes presumably contribute to various details of the patterns.
41425656|We used PCA of morphological characters to confirm the presence of an undescribed Calamagrostis species in Washington and Oregon that has historically been attributed to Calamagrostis vaseyi. We propose to name this grass Calamagrostis tacomensis. It is most similar to C. foliosa although it has often been confused with C. purpurascens and C. sesqutflora all of which have similar lemma awn characteristics (i.e., the awn relatively long, exserted, and bent). Calamagrostis tacomensis has been collected at high elevations (4902170 m) in the Washington Cascades, the Olympic Peninsula and the Steens Mountains of Oregon. The name C. vaseyi has been misapplied to our new species. The description of C. vaseyi is similar to C. rubescens. We have studied the specimen that has been attributed to be the type of C. vaseyi and it is C. purpurascens. We lectotypify C. vaseyi.
41424955|We report 39 additions to the flora of Glacier National Park. Fourteen of these are exotic weeds. Both the number of exotics and visitors have increased at an accelerating rate since 1920. These findings suggest that control of exotics will be an increasingly difficult task for managers of popular reserves.
41425251|Understanding the ecological factors that cause narrow geographic range and habitat specificity is essential for the conservation of rare species of edaphic endemic plants. Here we investigated the relative roles of soil and light in limiting the distribution of Chorizanthe pungens Benth. var. hartwegiana Rev. & Hardham (Polygonaceae), an annual plant endemic to open patches of low nutrient soils in the sandhills habitat of the Santa Cruz Mountains, Central Coastal California. Seedlings were grown in a controlled pot experiment under three light conditions and five soil treatments. The growth, survival, and reproduction of individual plants were compared. Plants were least successful when grown on their native low nutrient soil, suggesting that soil type is not a limiting factor in the taxon's distribution. However, when grown under high shade, survivorship, growth, and reproduction of individuals were low. This suggests that shade intolerance is the major cause of this taxon's restriction to open, sandy areas. Thus management to preserve this federally endangered species should include artificial or natural disturbances to prevent populations from being extirpated due to encroachment of taller, shade-producing species.
41426143|The British-born Joseph Burtt Davy spent 1892-1902 at the University of California, Berkeley, where he was affiliated with the Department of Botany and the State Agricultural Experiment Station. During this time he published about 80 articles on diverse aspects of botany, most of them in the journal Erythea for which he apparently had substantial editorial responsibility. Burtt Davy's activities in California are partially reconstructed through his correspondence with botanists at Berkeley and at Kew. The circumstances surrounding his departure from California are unclear, but in 1902 he moved to Washington, D. C., for a brief period and then went to Pretoria, South Africa, where he established a herbarium in a unit that eventually became the Botanical Research Unit.
41425633|A review of taxonomic literature, examination of existing herbarium specimens, and a morphological study of field-collected material demonstrates that species circumscriptions have been misapplied for the small-flowered Brodiaea species with spreading perianth lobes and floral tubes narrowed above the ovary. The results of these studies demonstrate that Niehaus's (1971) concept of B. purdyi, polyploid plants that occur in woodland habitats in the northern Sierra Nevada foothills, applies to the taxon originally described as B. minor, placing B. purdyi in synonymy with B. minor. Niehaus's concept of B. minor, diploid plants occurring in vernal pool terrain, applies only to those populations originally described as Brodiaea nana, which is resurrected at species rank.
41425016|Atriplex asterocarpa is a newly described annual species from southern Utah and northern Arizona. It occurs most often on slopes of the Chinle Formation. It is morphologically closest to A. saccaria but differs in its long-petioled leaves, globose fruiting bracts and indurate, sharp-pointed, conical fruiting-bract appendages.
41425075|The factors responsible for variation in evolutionary rate and pattern among related plant taxa remain in large part obscure. Neutral or selectionist theories alone cannot account for divergent rates of morphological and molecular evolution among related lineages. Interactions among population histories, inherent genetic capacities and environment influence divergence rate. The development of a concise modern evolutionary synthesis, incorporating molecular data and transcending the neo-Darwinian synthesis, is complicated by interaction of these highly complex variables. Control or limitation of these variables is necessary if further evolutionary research is to result in a new synthesis. To this end a biogeographic region is delimited within northcentral coastal California and termed the ' North Coast Biodiversity Arena' (NCBDA). The NCBDA has a relatively well-understood geological and environmental history. It is a region of marked microclimatic and edaphic discontinuities, but not one of extreme environments. In general, the climate displays a gradient of decreasing precipitation west to east with simultaneously decreasing equability. It is restricted by definition to elevations below 500 meters. Without high mountain ranges within its boundaries killing frost is essentially unknown. Its topography is varied and in some areas rain shadows have strong local effects. The NCBDA supports a highly diverse flora including both habitat specialists and broadly adapted species. The diversity of major vegetation types, floristic associations, edaphics, and geologies within the NCBDA is introduced. Evolutionary problems critical to the development of a modern evolutionary synthesis and whose solutions may be accessible within the NCBDA are described.
41424819|Three woodlands dominated by California black walnut were studied. At one site, Quercus agrifolio, was a co-dominant whereas at the other two sites Juglans californica dominated > 90% of the relative areal coverage. Heteromeles arbutifolia was a significant component of all three woodlands. At two of the sites most of the walnuts were single-stemmed and some of them exceeded 15 m in height. Another site was a more open savanna type woodland and many trees had multiple stems; 40% had 4 or more stems per plant and one had 16 stems. The age structure of the three Juglans populations is presented. At all sites there were stems at least 70 years of age. All populations had substantial seedling recruitment and densities ranged from 275 to 1975 seedlings (defined as stems < 5 years of age and not attached to a mature tree) per hectare. It is hypothesized that irregularities in annual seedling establishment and seedling mortality play an important role in structuring these populations.
41426196|Twenty species of algae were identified in snow and ice collections from Alberta, California, Colorado, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, and Washington. Red resting spores of Chlamydomonas nivalis, zygotes of Chloromonas brevispina and Chloromonas nivalis, and cells of Scotiella polyptera were most frequently encountered. The following taxa are reported for the first time from snow and ice habitats in western North America: Anabaena variabilis, Actinotaenium cucurbita var. attenuatum, Synedra mazamaensis, S. tablala var.acuminata, Eunotia curvata var. curvata, Achnanthes flexella var. flexella, A. lapponica, Pinnularia hilseana var. hilseana, and Gomphonema acuminatum. In addition Cylindrocystis brebissonii f. cryophila is first reported from Alberta, and Raphidonema nivale and Chloromonas brevispina from California.
41425149|Chromosome numbers are reported for 75 populations of 19 species of Erigeron from Mexico and 4 populations of 1 species from Arizona. First reports for the species are given for E. fraternus, E. polycephalus, E. strigulosus, and E. wislizeni, and new ploidy levels are reported for E. coronarius van durangensis, E. janivultus, E. forreri, E. pubescens, and E. versicolor. Erigeron gilensis and E. mimegletes are treated as synonyms of E. versicolor, a species previously considered to be endemic to southcentral Mexico. Comments on morphological variability in E. versicolor, E. longipes, E. pubescens, and several other species are provided.
41425756|A long-term history of water table fluctuations, from alternating periods of drought and abundant precipitation, can be preserved in the stratigraphy of wetland sediments. We examined the middle to late Holocene history of vegetation and climate change from a small wetland on the Modoc Plateau in Shasta County, northeastern California. This site is at a transition between the Great Basin and the Californian Floristic Provinces, and the paleoecological record from Flycatcher Basin exhibits affinities to both. Although the sedimentary record extends back to ca. 8300 cal yr BP, organic sediment did not form until ca. 4500 cal yr BP, indicating that water was probably absent in the basin during the middle Holocene. Pollen and plant macrofossils deposited after 4500 cal yr BP suggests a mixed conifer -Quercus forest grew around Flycatcher Basin. Charcoal is abundant in these sediments, indicating periodic forest fire. Distinctly modern forests developed by about 2200 cal yr BP, when Pinus became the dominant conifer with Quercus, in a more closed forest, perhaps with more frequent fire. The record from Flycatcher Basin provides no evidence for change in the boundaries between the Great Basin and California (Cascadian) floristic provinces during the period of record. The late Holocene is interpreted as a generally increasingly mesic sequence, with a long-term increase in groundwater recharge, yet interspersed by extended drought during the last 2000 yr. Extended droughts occurred from ca. 1125 AD to 1450 AD, with an earlier protracted dry period from ca. 100 AD to ca. 900 AD. Generally wetter periods occur from ca. 1000 to 1125 AD, and after ca. 1450 AD. The paleoenvironmental changes in the Flycatcher Basin wetland are a local expression of a much broader climatic pattern, as shown by several studies of higher resolution proxies. The record from Flycatcher Basin wetland is important in demonstrating the centennial to millennial-scale fluctuations in water availability in a region of rapidly expanding human population, with an increasing need for water resources.
41424607|The historic roots of the California Botanical Society are traced from 1853, when the California Academy of Natural Sciences was founded, to the organizational meeting in 1913 called by W. L. Jepson. Twenty-five organizations and events more or less influenced the Society's origins. Natural history events, especially botanical, in the East, the role of the California Botanical Club, the Sierra Club, and rivalries are noted particularly.
41702397|Calystegia sepium (L.) R. Br subsp. binghamiae (Greene) Brummitt (Convolvulaceae), until recently presumed extinct, is elevated to species status. The basionym Convolvulus binghamiae Greene was published without identifying a type; therefore, a lectotype is selected from among the specimens cited in Greene's description.
41424754|Effects of up to three successive spring and fall burns on composition and biomass of the predominantly non-native grasslands of the southern Sierra Nevada foothills were evaluated. Fall and spring burning regimes increased the number and biomass of both alien and native forb species. No native grass species became established following the treatments. Thus, whereas the biomass of alien grass species can be reduced by repeated burning, they will be replaced by increases in both alien and native forbs. Changes seen following one or two burns (spring or fall) were not sustained following cessation of burning treatment.
41424924|Arctostaphylos peninsularis subsp. peninsularis is a crown sprouting species with massive burls that dominates much of the Sierra San Pedro Martir of northern Baja California. In the adjacent Sierra Juarez, A. peninsularis subsp. juarezensis is a nonburl-forming arborescent obligate seeder. Hypotheses are proposed to account for this marked difference in fire response. Arctostaphylos peninsularis subesp. peninsularis es una especie poseedora de tubrculo lignoso que rebrota despus de incendios y se encuentra por todo la Sierra San Pedro Martir de Baja California norte. Encuentran en las montanas adyacientes, la Sierra Juarez, A. peninsularis subesp. juarezensis. Es esta una especie arborescente la cual no posee un tuberculo lignoso ni puede rebrotar despues de los incendios. Hipotesis son proponer para explicar esta differencia en respuesta regeneracion del fuego.
41424188|Detailed anatomical descriptions of leaves and stems are presented for Koeberlinia and Canotia, desert perennials of North America with photosynthetic old stems. Koeberlinia has linear subulate leaves with conical unicellular trichomes, adaxial stornata, abundant palisade mesophyll, and relatively few tannin cells; whereas Canotia has deltoid scales lacking trichomes and having abaxial stornata, undifferentiated mesophyll, and abundant tannin cells. Stem anatomy of these genera is also dissimilar even though both have adaptations to facilitate stem photosynthesis. Myrosin cells are present in inner cortex of Koeberlinia. Woods are superficially similar in vessel and fiber dimensions; however, Canotia has low, narrow rays with abundant resin and prismatic crystals, whereas Koeberlinia has higher, wider rays lacking resin and crystals, and its vessels appear to have vestured pits. Bark anatomy of these genera is fundamentally different. A previous report of secretory ducts in Koeberlinia is incorrect. Those features shared are judged to be convergent, and the differences are great enough to negate their classification together in the bigeneric Koeberliniaceae. A recommendation is made to reassign Canotia to Celastraceae and Koeberlinia to or near Capparaceae.
41424858|Nitrogen inputs and storage pools were quantified for 20 months on a perennial grass dominated beach-foredune area at Pt. Reyes National Seashore, CA. Atmospheric input of ammonium and nitrate by bulk precipitation (rain + dry fallout) was 1.6 kg N ha;1 yr and by summer fog condensation was 4.2 kg N ha yr; Non-symbiotic nitrogen fixation was not detected and fixation by a nodulated legume species is negligible relative to atmospheric inputs. The total ecosystem nitrogen pool was only 390 kg ha , 78% of which was soil organic nitrogen, 18% was in vegetation, and 4% was inorganic soil nitrogen. Living vascular plant tissue contained 1.7% nitrogen a value typical of crop plants on fertile soil despite soil nitrogen content < 0.006%.
41425703|Brodiaea santarosae (Themidaceae) is a new species from southwest Riverside County and immediately-adjacent Miller Mountain of San Diego County, CA. It is easily distinguished from other Brodiaea species in southern California by its large flowers and distinctive, variable staminodes; morphological analysis revealed 11 total differentiating characteristics. Brodiaea santarosae occurs only on or very close to the 8-11 million-year-old Santa Rosa Basalt. It has the smallest range of the southern California Brodiaeas, with just four known populations occupying only a small portion of a ~ 40 km area, plus a fifth small population disjunct by 11 km. It has been speculated that the B. santarosae population is a hybrid swarm between B. filifolia and B. orcuttii, based solely on the appearance of the staminodes and filaments in selected flowers. This speculation was rejected due to the lack of sympatry between the three taxa and because specimens of B. santarosae have numerous characteristics that are not intermediate between the claimed parent taxa. In contrast, intermediate characteristics were seen in Fl specimens of B. filifolia X B. orcuttii discovered in San Marcos, CA, the only location where those species overlap. We also report extensions to the length characteristics for both B. filifolia and B. orcuttii and demonstrate that two populations of B. filifolia previously thought to be hybrids are consistent with other B. filifolia populations. Brodiaea santarosae (Themidaceae) es una nueva especie del sudoeste del Condado de Riverside y del monte Miller inmediato-adyacente en el Condado de San Diego, CA. Es distinguido fcilmente de las otras especies de Brodiaea del Sur de California por sus flores grandes y staminodes variables y distintivos; el anlisis morfolgico revel 11 totales que distinguen caractersticas. Brodiaea santarosae ocurre solamente en o muy cerca del Santa Rosa Basalt de 8-11 millones de aos de antigedad. Tiene la gama ms pequea de las Brodiaeas del Sur de California, con apenas cuatro poblaciones conocidas ocupando solamente una porcin pequea de un rea de ~ 40 km , ms una quinto poblacin pequea disjunta por 11 kilmetros. Se ha especulado que la poblacin de B. santarosae es un enjambre hbrido entre B. filifolia y B.orcuttii, basados solamente en el aspecto de los staminodes y de los filamentos en flores seleccionadas.Esta especulacin fue rechazada debido a la carencia de sympatry entre los tres taxa y porque los especmenes de B. santarosae tienen caractersticas numerosas que no sean intermedias entre los taxa demandados del padre. En contraste, las caractersticas intermedias fueron consideradas en los especmenes Fl del B. filifolia X B. orcuttii descubierto en San Marcos, CA, la nica localizacin donde esas especies se traslapan.Tambin divulgamos extensiones a las caractersticas de la longitud para B. filifolia y B. orcuttii y demostramos que dos poblaciones del B. filifolia pensaron previamente para ser hbridos son constantes con otras poblaciones del B. filifolia.
41702384|Foxtail pine, Pinus balfouriana Grev. & Balf., is an endemic subalpine conifer of California with two allopatric subspecies. The northern subspecies grows in northwestern California and the southern subspecies is found in the southern Sierra Nevada. We studied three northern and three southern populations of P. balfouriana to evaluate the population biology, demography, mortality agents, and environmental conditions in these contrasting regions. Northern populations exist under a mesic climatic regime, a diversity of geological substrates, stands of high tree species richness, lower densities and basal areas, but higher numbers of recruitment, with a relatively mixed size class distribution. Southern foxtail pine populations exist under a xeric climatic regime dominated by granitic substrates, with moderate to high stand densities, less tree species-rich, lower recruitment numbers, but higher basal areas; due to a skewed size class distribution with high representation of large diameter trees. Recruitment in the north averaged 169.3 seedlings/saplings ha, compared to 91.3 seedlings/saplings ha in the south, despite the fact that northern populations produce less cones on average (3695 cones ha) than populations in the southern Sierra Nevada (7642 cones ha). At the stand-level, solar radiation input and foxtail pine density were correlated with fecundity. These factors may correspond with microenvironmental and topographic conditions that favor germination (e.g., warmer microclimate) and propagule pressure (e.g., seed supply). At the local or plot-level, microenvironmental conditions (e.g., litter, substrate type, and microhabitat) and factors corresponding to local seed supply (e.g., density, basal area, number of cones, and number of reproductive adults) were correlated with recruitment, particularly in the southern Sierra Nevada. Foxtail pine is recruiting episodically in higher numbers in the north and lower numbers in the south. Four of six populations appear to be stable, due to low mortality and high survivorship. Low estimates of population growth () at Lake Mountain (north) and Sirretta Peak (south) were due to mortality of large diameter trees and low recruitment. At these locations, mountain pine beetle-mediated mortality and drought stress appear to be important factors contributing to current population trends.
41424921|A report of 2n= 15 II is new for Chaenactis douglasii (Hook.) Hook. & Arn., as are 12 II and 18 II for C. douglasii var. montana M. E. Jones. The frequency of meiotic aberrations (11%) was 33% of that found in a larger 1980 study. The correlation between ploidy level and age of substrate was highest in the Sierra Nevada and lowest in the Intermontane Plateaus.
41425695|This study describes the distribution of species in a 21.6 ha inland salt marsh, consisting of three plant communities. The marsh community is along Leon Creek in the Diamond Y Spring Preserve in Pecos County near Fort Stockton, in western Texas (3100.54' N, 10255.49 'W). From driest (highest elevation) to wettest (lowest elevation), the sequence is a Sporobolus airoides (alkali sacaton, Poaceae) grassland, a Distichlis spicata (saltgrass, Poaceae) grassland, and in the drainage a Schoenoplectus americanus (bulrush, Cyperaceae) marsh community. The communities were simple, with a total of 15 species found in the marsh. The mean plant cover in the salt marsh was 59%. The Sporobolus grassland covered 26% of the marsh and contained six species including S. airoides with 52  36% cover and D. spicata with 13  21% cover. The four other species were Helianthus paradoxus (Pecos or puzzle sunflower, Asteraceae), Suaeda calceoliformis (seepweed, Chenopodiaceae), Limonium limbatum (sea lavender, Plumbaginaceae), and Sesuvium verrucosum (sea purslane, Aizoaceae) ( 5% cover each). The Distichlis grassland covered 50% of the marsh and contained nine species.Distichlis spicata had 50  33% cover followed by H. paradoxus at 25  25% cover, S. calceoliformis at 10  19% and S. airoides at 6  20%. The five other species were S. texanus (Texas sporobolus, Poaceae), Flaveria chlorifolia (yellow flaveria, Asteraceae), Juncus mexicanus (Mexican rush, Juncaceae), S. americanus and L. limbatum ( 2% cover each). In the Schoenoplectus community that covered only 2% of the salt marsh, there were 11 species. High cover species included S.americanus at 39  33%, D. spicata at 22  34%, H. paradoxus at 11  26%, and S. texanus at 9  14%. Seven other species had cover values of one percent or less including S. calceoliformis, J.mexicanus, Samolus cuneatus (brookweed, Primulaceae), Spartina pectinata (prairie cordgrass, Poaceae), Heliotropium curassavicum (alkali heliotrope, Boraginaceae), Agalinis calycina (Leoncita false foxglove, Scrophulariaceae) and Eleocharis palustris (spikerush, Cyperaceae).
41424591|Coursetia insomniifolia is herein described from Coahuila, Mexico. It is the only member of the genus to inhabit the Chihuahuan Desert, and its relationship with other species of Coursetia is obscure. Coursetia axillaris and C. glandulosa, both inhabitants of northern Mexico and adjacent U.S.A., are probably its closest relatives.
41425083|The Marin Islands in San Francisco Bay are two very small islands a short distance off the shore of San Rafael, Marin County, California. The vegetation and floras of the two islands are strikingly different. The herbaceous flora of the plateau on West Marin Island is dominated by a dense sward of the introduced annual grasses Bromus diandrus and Avena fatua, whereas the flora of the plateau on East Marin Island is dominated by a mixture of smaller, introduced grass species growing with several perennial and annual native forbs and grasses. Snowy Egrets, Great Egrets, Blackcrowned Night Herons, Great Blue Herons, Western Gulls, and Canada Geese nest on West Marin Island; of these, only Canada Geese nest sparingly on East Marin Island. We attribute the floristic and vegetational differences between these islands to alterations of soil chemistry by bird guano and physical disturbances of the vegetation caused by the birds on West Marin Island, factors that are largely missing from East Marin Island, which was, until very recently, inhabited. The vegetation of both islands includes mixed evergreen forest, coastal prairie, coastal salt marsh, and northern coastal scrub. Several species of introduced ornamental trees, shrubs, and herbs grow on East Marin Island but not on West Marin Island. Both islands support a partially fringing woodland of Quercus agrifolia, Aesculus californica, and Umbellularia californica. The native Sancula crassicaulis, Stachys ajugoides var. rgida, Dryopteris arguta, Lonicera hispidula var. vacillans, and Symphoricarpus albus var. laevigatus were frequent on East Marin Island but were not observed on West Marin Island; Claytonia perfoliata and Polypodium californicum were abundant on the former island but were sparingly represented on the latter one. The known native vascular flora of the two islands consists of 65 species; 26 of these occur on both islands, 37 are known only from East Marin Island, and two were collected only on West Marin Island.
41425167|Lomatium Observatorium, described herein from Mount Hamilton, California, is the southernmost link in a chain of morphologically similar entities extending through the Coast Ranges to southern Oregon. The first of these to receive taxonomic recognition was L. ciliolatum', its former variety is herein raised to specific rank as L.hooveri to demonstrate its parity with other members of the alliance. Outside of the alliance, two species of Lomatium not included in the Jepson Manual are now known to occur in California: L. grayi and L. hendersonii.
41424252|Between 1640 and 1907 fires hot enough to produce basal scars on pines in a small isolated Pinus lambertiana forest in the Santa Lucia Range of central California occurred on the average of once every 21 years. Excepting two small lightning fires that were quickly extinguished, no fires occurred in the pine forest after 1907 until the lightning-caused Marble-Cone fire burned the entire forest in 1977. This was the most intense burn recorded within the life of the present forest. It caused significant loss of pines, particularly within the 40 percent of the forest on the north summit above 1600 m elevation. Changes in forest composition resulting from the Marble-Cone fire suggest that several more fires following 50-75 year intervals may eliminate P. lambertiana forest above 1600 m on Junipero Serra Peak.
41425553|Arctostaphylos gabilanensis V. T. Parker and M. C. Vasey is a newly described diploid manzanita species from the Gabilan Mountains in San Benito and Monterey counties, CA. This species demonstrates characteristics that suggest a hybrid origin, with auriculate leaves similar to many maritime species, but also with inflorescence characters including large globose fruits and fused nutlets that indicate a relationship to A. glauca. Plants are restricted to soils of granitic origin between 300-700 m from just SE of Fremont Peak, south to near the northern boundary of the Pinnacles. We also provide a key to the northern auriculate-leaved Arctostaphylos species of the San Francisco Bay and Monterey Bay regions.
41425918|Gabbro is a mafic rock with many species that do not occur on soils of granitic or ultramafic rocks. Although some gabbro soils harbor many unique or endemic species, others do not, as botanists have noted from the Appalachian Piedmont to the mountains of California and Oregon. Gabbro soils were sampled in the Peninsular Ranges and in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada to identify special features of the gabbro soils with unique plant species distributions. No soil morphological or chemical differences were found between gabbro soils with and without unique plant species that might explain the differences in plant distributions. Although many unique species may occur only on gabbro soils, apparently their distributions cannot be explained primarily by soil differences among gabbro soils.
41424895|Documented meiotic and mitotic chromosome counts are reported for 69 taxa, including interspecific hybrids, representing 11 genera of Cactaceae from the southwestern United States and northern Mexico. These include first reports for 16 taxa.New ploidy levels were determined for two additional taxa. These chromosome counts are all consistent with the base number for the Cactaceae, x= 11. Nomenclatural changes are: Opuntia x kelvinensis V. Grant & K. Grant (pro sp.) (O. fulgida x O. spinosior), O. x vaseyi (J. Coulter) Britton & Rose (pro sp.) (O.littoralis x O. phaeacantha), O.x occidentalis Engelm. (pro sp.) (O. littoralis x [O.engelmannii x O. phaeacantha]), and O. wolfii (L. Benson) M. A. Baker, comb, et status nov. Se reportan conteos meiticos y mitticos documentados de cromosomas para 69 taxa, representando 11 gneros de cactceas del suroeste de los Estados Unidos y del norte de Mxico. Estos incluyen los primeros reportes para 16 taxa. Neuvos niveles de ploidia fueron determinados para dos taxa adicionales. Estos conteos de cromosomas son todos consistentes con el nmero base para Cactaceae, x=11.Cambios de nomenclatura son: Opuntia x kelvinensis V. Grant & . Grant (pro sp.) (O. fulgida x O. spinosior), O. x vaseyi (J. Coulter) Britton & Rose (pro sp.) (O. littoralis x O. phaeacantha), O. x occidentalis Engelm. (pro sp.) (O. littoralis x [O.engelmannii x O. phaeacantha]), y O. wolfii (L. Benson) M. A. Baker, comb, et status nov.
41425256|Mount St. Helens is an active volcano located in the Cascade Range of southwestern Washington. The volcano erupted in 1980 and created a wide array of devastated landscapes. Since the eruption, vegetation has been colonizing these new landscapes. In the summers of 1993 and 1994 we inventoried plant species and their relative abundance on the Pumice Plain, Plains of Abraham, Toutle Debris Avalanche, Toutle Ridge, and the crater. We distinguished plants as those found in primary successional uplands and wetlands and in refugia. Refugia are defined as habitat where plants survived the eruption as rootstock. The principal refugia are located between the Pumice Plain and Plains of Abraham. The current flora is dominated by wind-dispersed invasive species, mainly those in the families Asteraceae, Poacee, Cyperaceae, and Onagraceae. Large-seeded, late-successional understory species are common in refugia and, to a limited extent, have spread into primary substrates. The species documented comprise 341 species in 178 genera and 53 families. These species comprise 4 Sphenophyta, 6 Pterophyta, 9 Coniferophyta, and 322 Anthophyta (221 Dicotyledonae and 101 Monocotyledonae). Fifty-seven of the species are non-native. Species were surveyed for relative abundance on a three way scalewidespread, locally common, and infrequent. This checklist provides a baseline to judge future composition of the flora and plant invasion patterns.
41424192|Carlowrightia texana, C. mexicana, and C. lesueurii are described, illustrated, and mapped. The new species are distinguished from C. torreyana, C. arizonica, and C. mexicana respectively.
41425594|We estimated aboveground and belowground net primary productivity (NPP) for two reaches of a montane riparian ecosystem in the eastern Sierra Nevada Mountains of California with differing stream flow regimes resulting from varying degrees of stream flow diversion for hydroelectric power generation. Total understory productivity (herbaceous and shrub) was 2.5 times higher (P < 0.001) at the high-flow site than at the low-flow site (22.4 and 8.9 g C m yr, respectively). Annual litterfall was also higher (P = 0.03) at the high-flow (235 g C m yr) than at the low-flow site (180 g C m yr). However, tree and total aboveground NPP, as well as annual soil respiration and belowground NPP, were all statistically similar between sites. Furthermore, total (above-plus below-ground) NPP was statistically similar between sites (903 and 643 g C m yr for the high-and low-flow sites, respectively). These productivity estimates are, to our knowledge, the first ever reported for a western montane riparian ecosystem. Our results suggest that NPP of montane riparian ecosystems located along gaining stream reaches is only loosely coupled to stream flow, and understory aboveground NPP may be the most sensitive productivity measure to altered stream flow.
41424367|Phenology, germination, and survival in a desert ephemeral community was followed from January 1976 through January 1978. Cool season species germinated following rain in fall and/or winter. Germination of warm season C ephemerals was restricted to May. Significant variations occurred in the phenology of plants germinating in response to the same rain storm. The shape of survivorship curves among cool season species dramatically varied depending on seasonality of precipitation.
41425313|Eight of eleven cultivars of Juniperus communis L. growing at Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden exhibit a morphology atypical of the wild populations from which they were reportedly derived. The "exotic" morphology consists of branchlets arranged at almost 90 to the branch axis and more spreading leaves that are of a bluer color than those of the wild plants. One of the "exotic" cultivars additionally shows a chimaeric distribution of acicular and scale-like leaves along its branches. Scale-like leaves are characteristics of Juniperus section Sabina and not section Juniperus, to which J. communis belongs. A RAPD marker study was initiated to compare RAPD fingerprints of the cultivars with those of their putative wild ancestors and representatives of other Juniperus species in both sections. Results suggested that the eight cultivars having an "exotic" morphology were either hybrids between J. communis and J. chinensis, or pedomorphic forms of J. chinensis. The three remaining cultivars that have a "native" morphology clustered with J. communis progenitors.
41426221|Subspecies of Yucca whipplei represent different life history modes. Subspecies whipplei and parishii are semelparous, subsp. caespitosa is iteroparous, subsp. percursa has vegetative reproduction, and subsp. intermedia combines both patterns of these last two taxa. Germination of all subspecies was greatly inhibited at 40C suggesting seedling recruitment is restricted during hotter months. Brief heat treatment at 100C prior to wetting did not enhance germination, as is the case in many chaparral shrubs commonly associated with Yucca. Rather, germination was reduced at this temperature, though the reduction was least for the two semelparous forms most commonly associated with chaparral. Seedling biomass after four months in a common environment showed highly significant differences among subspecies and was strongly correlated with initial seed weight. Biomass allocation patterns were significantly different among subspecies but not related to reproductive mode, seed weight or elevation or distance from the coast (of seed collection site). Leaf characteristics were associated with reproductive mode; the two semelparous subspecies had markedly higher estimated leaf areas than the other three taxa. All taxa increased allocation of biomass to corms under low moisture and high temperature "stress" conditions.
41425637|Additional measurements of male and female plants and staminate flowers are reported for Arceuthobium pendens. Measurements for fruits and seeds of this rare mistletoe are reported for the first time. Additional information on phenology and host reactions to infection is reported also. Se reportan mediciones adicionales de plantas masculinas y femeninas y de flores masculinas de Arceuthobium pendens. Las mediciones de frutos y semillas de esta rara especie de murdago enano son reportadas por primera vez. Informacin adicional sobre fluoracin y dispersin de semillas y reacciones del hospedero a la infeccin son tambin reportadas.
41425249|Field examination of dune hillocks (nebkas) showed that changes in nebka topography and spread, sand texture, vascular plant and cryptogram cover, and species prescence were correlated with nebka ages between 15 and 135 yr. We determined age by a series of aerial photographs dating back to 1955 and topographic maps drawn as early as 1862. Development of a cryptogamic crust was significant during this range of time; on the oldest nebka it contributed 43 g biomass m of nebka surface, which represented 3% of total above-ground biomass. Nebkas at Bodega grew in height 4 cm yr during the past century, whereas non-vegetated areas were deflated at the same rate. Sucession is driven by sandstilling attributes of Ammophila arenaria, introduced to northern California in the mid-ninteenth century and additionally planted at Bodega in the mid-twentieth century. By reference to the 1862 map we concluded that A. arenaria has built a prominent, continuous foredune and hinddune since the time of its arrival.
41425913|Cryptic self-incompatibility (CSI) is a type of non-random mating observed in self-compatible plants in which outcross pollen sires proportionally more seeds than self pollen when both pollen types are available on the stigma. Levels of CSI are known to vary among individuals and populations. We conducted competitive pollinations consisting of mixtures of self and outcross pollen to investigate reports of CSI in certain populations of Clarkia unguiculata Lindl. We also investigated how the order of self and outcross pollen deposition on the stigma influences the degree of nonrandom mating. Finally, we looked at whether the source population of outcross pollen affected the ability of outcross pollen to outcompete self pollen. We utilized recessive (white-petaled) maternal (and self pollen donor) plants from a locality near Morro Bay, California, and dominant (pink-petaled) outcross pollen donor plants from 17 localities widespread through the species range in California. Progenies from pollinations made with equal mixtures of self and cross pollen included significantly more outcrosspollinated than self-pollinated offspring in 10 of the 17 cross-pollen donor populations. However six populations showed no significant difference between self-and outcross-pollinated offspring, and one population yielded a majority of progeny sired by self pollen. Progenies from sequential self pollen followed by outcross pollinations included significantly more self offspring in 12 of the donor populations, no significant difference between outcross and self offspring in four donor populations and significantly more outcross offspring in one donor population. Progenies from sequential outcross pollen followed by self pollinations included significantly more outcross offspring in 15 donor populations and no significant difference between outcross and self offspring in two donor populations. Our results confirm the occurrence of non-random mating in C. unguiculata, and demonstrate that the degree of non-random mating can depend on the order of self vs. outcross pollen deposition and the source population of outcross pollen. This non-random mating can influence the proportion of self and outcross progeny in sequential pollinations.
41424885|Recent burning and sheep grazing did not affect recruitment, survival, or growth of seedling Quercus douglasii Hooker & Arnott over four years at the Hopland Field Station, California. Recruitment did vary considerably among years. Once a seedling's shoot emerged, the probability of surviving to the next year remained constant, at about 0.5, unaffected by year, seedling size or age, past fire, or present sheep grazing. Established seedlings did not increase in size, and showed no indication of growing out of the seedling class into the sapling class. Successful natural regeneration appears to depend on factors controlling growth, not on factors associated with mortality during the seedling stage.
41426370|Pentachaeta aurea Nutt. subsp. allenii Keil is described as new. It is apparently endemic to southwestern Orange Co., California. Lamina tips of ray corollas of living specimens of the plants are pale yellow in early morning but turn brilliant white after 1-2 hr in sunshine; laminae of subsp. aurea are solid yellow.
41425899|Howellanthus (Constance) Walden and R. Patt. is recognized as a new genus, containing a single species H. dalesianus (J. T. Howell) Walden and R. Patt., based on morphological evidence. Howellanthus dalesianus (Boraginaceae) is a small perennial herb, endemic to northern California and restricted to ultramafic soils. The species was first collected in 1936 by Ella Dales Cantelow and Herbert Clair Cantelow, described by John Thomas Howell as Phacelia dalesiana J. T. Howell, and later placed in the monotypic Phacelia subg. Howellanthus by Lincoln Constance.
41424910|The upper Owens River channel has been used for decades as an aqueduct to deliver flows from the Mono Basin to the Los Angeles Aqueduct. This out-of-basin diversion has tripled the volume of flow in the upper Owens River and altered channel and floodplain morphology (e.g., channels have become wider, deeper, and straighter). These changes have influenced density, distribution and growth response of the dominant riparian tree, Salix lasiolepis (white willow). Compared to an upstream control reach, juvenile S. lasiolepis had significantly lower density in the reach receiving the additional flows. Mature S. lasiolepis trees in the augmented-flow reach had significantly lower areal cover and had high relative abundance of dead trees. The trees tended to be located farther from the stream and to be more abundant on floodplains higher above the stream water level. These patterns may result from physiological intolerance of wetter soils, and from avulsive channel straightening and physical removal of seedlings and trees from near-stream recruitment areas during high flood flows. Radial growth rates of mature S. lasiolepis did not differ between reaches, but annual growth patterns did differ. Growth of the willow in the control reach increased significantly with annual flow volume and was frequently limited by low flows. Growth of willow in the augmented reach decreased with annual flow volume and was limited by very high flows. Flows that produced greatest growth were at the high range of the natural flows and low range of the augmented flows. Very high flows may produce saturated conditions that are not conducive to growth or survival. If flows were restored to natural levels, we speculate that S. lasiolepis would ultimately increase in density. Density would remain low, however, until the river-floodplain system reequilibrated and until other factors that limit willow abundance (i.e., cattle browsing) were minimized.
41425841|Naturalized Ilex aquifolium L. (English holly) was first collected in the Pacific Northwest in 1953, based on herbarium records. Field surveys showed it is now commonly naturalized from northwestern California to coastal British Columbia. Ilex crenata Thunb. and I. opaca Aiton were also found growing outside of cultivation, but rarely. A key and seed illustrations are provided to distinguish these three Ilex species. Between 2003 and 2006 twice-weekly visits to naturalized and cultivated hollies in Seattle revealed seven species of birds disseminating seeds by eating the fruits. American robins, Turdus migratorius, accounted for 96% of 2796 frugivory observations on I. aquifolium, followed by European starlings, Sturnus vulgaris (3.2%). Ilex aquifolium fruits ripened in October and persisted for six months, yet 99% of all fruit was consumed between November and February. A study of I. aquifolium seed fate found pre-dispersal diurnal seed predation was rarely observed. Birdregurgitated seed was more frequently attacked by nocturnal rodents in a sheltered forested setting in Clark Co., Washington (39% losses), compared to an exposed urban setting in Seattle (2% losses). The percentage of viable seed surviving rodent attack was higher in the urban sample (66%) than in the forest sample (24%). Commercial and ornamental use of I. aquifolium is extensive in the coastal region and less-invasive alternatives should be considered, to provide food and cover for urban avians without degrading natural areas.
41425267|Historical data collected from eight mixed conifer and four giant sequoia Sequoiadendron giganteum (Lindley) Buchholz (giant sequoia)-mixed conifer plots in the southern Sierra Nevada by George Sudworth in 1900-1901 were analyzed to determine historic forest structure. Although it is not possible to document details of the sampling methodology used by this early forest inventory, the plots were dominated by large trees of several species. Average diameter at breast height (DBH) was 110 cm (43 inches) in the mixed conifer plots and 145 cm (57 inches) in S. giganteum-mixed conifer plots for trees greater than 30.5 cm DBH. Results indicate that both shade intolerant and shade tolerant species were abundant. Average tree density was low at 278 trees/ha (111 trees/acre) in mixed conifer plots and 272 trees/ha (109 trees/acre) in S. giganteurn-mixed conifer plots for trees greater than 30.5 cm DBH. The most common size classes are in the medium to large size classes for all S. giganteum-mixed conifer species. This is in contrast to published studies of current stands that have determined small size classes of shade tolerant species are occurring at higher frequencies. Early land uses such as logging and grazing at the turn of the 20th century impacted mixed conifer and S. giganteum-mixed conifer forests of the southern Sierra Nevada. Information from this study can assist in the characterization of the "natural range of variability" of these forests which could be used in their restoration and management.
41425477|California bunchgrass communities are one of the most endangered ecosystem types in the United States. In this study, we sought to determine long-term (52+ years) changes in populations of native bunchgrasses, Nassella pulchra (A. Hitchc.) Barkworth and Nassella cernua (Stebb. & Love) Barkworth, in unmanaged stands. At the landscape scale, Nassella has increased. However, population dynamics of individual stands appeared related to land-use history. Non-native annuals, by themselves, did not seem to cause decline of Nassella stands, but light grazing did cause reduction of Nassella basal cover. Areas that were historically cultivated supported Nassella stands with lower basal cover and size distributions qualitatively different from areas that were never cultivated. Mortality of Nassella, was concentrated in small plants. Interspecific interference probably was important in limiting seedling recruitment in stands with low Nassella basal cover, and intraspecific interference appeared to become important as Nassella basal cover increased. Even in the presence of non-native annuals, Nassella stands in areas that have not been disturbed by cultivation do not appear to require management for maintenance. New individuals are recruiting into populations, and conservative a estimate of longevity of large individuals of Nassella is 100 years. However, in areas that have been cultivated, active management may be required to increase the abundance of Nassella.
41425857|We conducted a study of Prosartes parvifolia S. Watson, a rare Siskiyou Mountains endemic, currently known from only 15 sites in Del Norte Co., California, and Curry and Josephine counties, Oregon. We found that P. parvifolia is (a) fertile, (b) probably not of hybrid origin, and (c) distinct and worthy of recognition as a species. Unlike congeners, its flowers produce ovaries with a single locule, and are pollinated by bees that buzz pollen from connivent anthers. Nectar is not produced. We provide an expanded description, illustrations, and distribution map for P. parvifolia as well as a key to the Prosartes of northwestern California and southwestern Oregon.
41425660|Arundo donax L. (Poaceae) is an invasive, perennial grass that grows in many-stemmed, cane-like clumps. It does not produce viable seeds in California and is currently thought to invade habitats rapidly by rhizomes and fragments only. But, during a two-year field study in the Tijuana River Valley, California, expansion of A. donax clumps via rhizomes was slow, only 0.29 m 2 yr, and new recruits from fragments were rare, only 4.7 ha yr. Whereas layering, a mode of spread heretofore ignored by researchers, was common in the flood zone. Layering is the adventitious sprouting of stem tips in contact with the ground. Layering can be considered to be both expansion of a clump (while the layering stem is still alive and attached to the clump) and asexual reproduction (after the layering stem dies). When viewed as clump expansion, layering was 7.4 times faster than the annual expansion via rhizomes. When viewed as reproduction, layering produced 25 times more new recruits than fragments. Layering was therefore an important means by which A. donax was spreading within the flood zone. A new general view of A. donax invasion is presented illustrating that fragmentation is the means by which A. donax invades a new site in the flood zone, expansion via rhizomes maintains an A. donax clump, and layering is the means by which A. donax spreads quickly and episodically within the flood zone. Outside the flood zone, A. donax expands slowly via rhizomes only and no new recruits arrive from either fragmentation or layering. The Tijuana River Valley results challenge the current "top-down" management policy, which presumes that most new recruits come from upstream and that all clumps expand at the same rate. The results show that, on the contrary, most new recruits come from within the habitat, via layering, and that clumps in the flood zone expand faster than those outside the flood zone. I conclude that the top-down policy is counter-productive and suggest that managers shift to controlling A. donax "inside-out," i.e., conduct treatments first inside and then outside the flood zone. In this way, the fastest expanding clumps - those in the flood zone - will be treated first.
41424319|Leaves of the vernal pool species Isoetes howellii and I. orcuttii possess a Crassulacean Acid Metabolism-like pathway while submerged. It is proposed that this was selected because CO availability is greatly reduced during the day in these pools, putting a premium on CO-fixation at night. Diurnal changes in physical and chemical characteristics in two vernal pools are compared with diurnal changes in malic acid concentration in Isoetes leaves. The data are consistent with the hypothesis.
41425676|Effects of prefire stand age, fire intensity, and hillslope position on postfire vegetation recovery during the first two postfire seasons were studied in two contrasting stands of mixed chaparral at San Diego State University's Sky Oaks Field Station (San Diego County, CA). One stand was approximately 60-years old and the other 12-years old when both burned in the July 2003 Coyote Fire. The two stands showed contrasting patterns of postfire community composition among different plant groups based on their modes of postfire regeneration. Fire intensity was significantly higher in the older stand. Increased fire intensity was positively correlated with establishment of seedlings of Ceanothus greggii var. perplexans (an obligate seeder), and negatively correlated with seedling abundance of Adenostoma fasciculatum (a facultative seeder). Hillslope position was also important in determining patterns of abundance, suggesting that soil erosion and deposition following fire may have a significant effect on postfire community recovery on these steep sites. Alternatively, prefire differences in the chaparral community that were correlated with hillslope position may account for these differences. The postfire herbaceous community in the first year was dominated by Phacelia brachyloba, a fire annual. Contrary to expectations, this species was found in greater abundance in the old stand than in the young. Fire annuals were largely absent from the community in the second year, and were replaced in abundance by a variety of opportunistic native and exotic annuals.
41424550|Tumamoc Hill, a 352-ha preserve near Tucson, Arizona, was the site of the Desert Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution of Washington from 1903 to 1940. The present flora of Tumamoc Hill comprises 346 specific and infraspecific taxa of vascular plants compared with 238 listed in a 1909 flora of the hill. Forty-nine of the new additions to the flora are introduced species, many of which colonized disturbed habitats created on the study area after 1940. Many of the species added may have dispersed to Tumamoc Hill from the nearby Santa Cruz River floodplain as a result of artificial wetland habitats created on the hill in recent years. Two species apparently have become locally extirpated since 1909.
41425651|A gridline survey for exotic plant species was undertaken in 1983 and repeated in 2005 at the Desert Laboratory, a 352-ha natural area just west of downtown Tucson, Arizona, USA. Coordinate data gathered during the surveys were used to plot distributions, determine frequencies (number of coordinate locations), and assess percent change. Fifty-two exotic species were encountered in all, 34 in the first survey, 44 in the second. The proportion of ornamental exotics doubled over time, reaching 50% in 2005. Casual, naturalized, and invasive exotics comprised 44%, 40%, and 15% of species found during the surveys. Minimum residence time increased significantly from casual to naturalized to invasive species, suggesting that the longer a species was present, the more likely it was to surmount barriers to naturalization and invasion. In both 1983 and 2005, casual, naturalized, and invasive species differed in mean frequency by an order of magnitude, with casual species having the lowest frequencies and invasive species the highest. Between surveys, frequency of 18 species decreased; most other species increased in frequency. The recent surge in ornamental exotics, combined with temporal trends in invasiveness, indicates that the proportion of invasive species in the flora will increase with time.
41425512|This study examines reproductive isolation and the potential for hybridization between Asclepias speciosa Torr, and Asclepias fascicularis Dene., two species of milkweed that co-occur in the Willamette Valley and in the Columbia River Gorge in Oregon. Since these species are ecologically and geographically sympatric, we investigated whether extrinsic differences in flowering time, insect visitors, and the sizes of floral structures might serve as pre-mating barriers to hybridization. Floral and vegetative characters were measured to confirm species distinctions and to test for possible character displacement in sympatric versus isolated populations of both species. The sizes of pollinia and stigmatic chambers differed significantly between species suggesting strong mechanical isolation in combinations with largeflowered A. speciosa as the pollen donor. Additional post-mating barriers also exist since experimental crosses between speciosa and A. fascicularis yielded seed only with A. fascicularis as the maternal parent. Interspecific pollinations yielded higher fruit-set (35%) than conspecific pollinations (13%) of A. fascicularis, suggesting that pollen tubes of larger-flowered A. speciosa may be more effective in traversing the style, or that insufficient compatible genotypes exist within small, fragmented populations of these species. Seeds from the successful hybrid crosses were comparable to A. speciosa in germination and produced viable hybrid offspring.
41424559|Twelve plant associations are recognized and described for montane meadows of Sequoia National Park based on 81 relevs. Three major groups are defined by growthform dominants: mixed forb and grass associations, Carex and Scirpus associations, and Eleocharis associations. Major environmental factors influencing vegetation distribution include: 1) a complex moisture gradient incorporating water depth and movement, and 2) site exposure and shading. Monitoring of water wells indicates that seasonal fluctuations of the water table are important in structuring the vegetation.
41424425|A new species, Suaeda esteroa, is described from estuaries of southern California and Baja California, Mexico. Although numerous collections of this plant have been made during the last century, it has been confused previously with four other species of the genus. Most frequently, S. esteroa has been identified as S. californica var. californica, a plant restricted to the coast of central California. These two taxa are distinct morphologically, ecologically, and geographically. Recognition of S. esteroa as a species restricted to estuaries of southern California and Baja California emphasizes further the floristic difference between estuaries occurring to the north and south of Point Conception, Santa Barbara County. A key to the coastal central and southern California species of Suaeda is provided.
41424856|The effects of shade and herbaceous competition on the growth of Acacia smallii and Celtis laevigata seedlings were studied using a factorial field experiment. Acacia smallii grew best in full sunlight when there were no competitors. Growth was intermediate in shade alone or in full sunlight with herbaceous competitors and least in shade with competitors. There was a significant interaction between light level and competition for A. smallii, with growth being greater than expected in full sun when competitors were absent. Celtis laevigata seedling growth was not significantly reduced by shade, but was lower in the presence of herbaceous competition. Combined negative effects of shade and herbaceous competition suggest that A. smallii is an early successional species requiring disturbances or vegetation gaps for establishment. Celtis laevigata is a late successional species that is little affected by low light levels, but its growth would be promoted by vegetation gaps in nutrient rich grasslands or below a woody plant overstory.
41425271|Seedlings of Sequoia sempervirens (D. Don) Endl. develop lignotubers as part of their normal ontogeny from detached meristems located in the axils of the two cotyledons. Within four months of germination, each axillary cotyledonary meristem gives rise to a large central bud with two or more collateral accessory buds. As seedlings age, bud and cortex proliferation phenomena associated with lignotuber formation spreads distally to include axillary meristems located immediately above the cotyledonary node. Lignotubers continue to expand throughout the life of a Sequoia, eventually forming massive, basal swellings that are covered with leafy shoots and/or suppressed shoot buds. The Sequoia lignotuber is a specialized organ of regeneration and carbohydrate storage that contributes to the long-term survival of the tree by producing buds that can develop into shoots following traumatic injury to the primary trunk and by generating new roots that increase the stability and the vigor of both young and old trees. In response to a variety of exogenous factors, Sequoia will also produce induced lignotubers, or burls, on the trunks of mature trees as well as on the "layered" lateral branches of young trees, where they come in contact with the soil.
41425266|Dudleya multicaulis (Rose) Moran is a rare geophyte, endemic to the coastal plain of southern California. This species has a patchy distribution associated with the imperiled coastal sage scrub community. We investigate the population size, gene flow, and genetic structure at two different geographical scales; discrete colonies within the University of California, Irvine Ecological Reserve and from eight populations sampled across the range of this species. The objective of this protocol was first to determine what constituted a D. multicaulis population as interpreted from protein electrophoretic data, and second to estimate the population genetic structure and amount of gene flow among populations throughout the geographical range. This kind of information is important for rare species and should be used with any plan designed to protect them from further decline. Our data indicate that all individuals within the University of California, Irvine campus now, or in the past, functioned as one population and it is estimated to be in the order of 1200 individual adult plants distributed over approximately 63 acres. The low population genetic structure and high gene flow found at this scale may be explained by pollen transport between colonies. At the regional level we found there is little gene flow among populations across the range of the species, that there is a high level of intrapopulation genetic variation, but more importantly, that there is significant genetic differentiation among populations. We discuss the implications of our results for the conservation of genetic diversity in D. multicaulis.
41424312|The historical role of fire in the foothill-chaparral and oak-woodland communities of Sequoia National Park must be understood before a management program can be developed that will assure the perpetuation of those community types. Historically, lightning-ignited fires were supplemented by intentional ignitions by Indians and, later, by European settlers. The park fire records since 1920 portray the frequency of both mancaused and lightning fires by year, month, and elevation. Fires have been most common at higher elevations and during summer. This corresponds with the period of maximum drought stress and minimum foliage moisture content. The largest share of the area burned has been within the chaparral community. However, nearly 75 percent of the zone has not burned during this time.
41425817|Fire has become more extensive in recent decades in southwestern United States arid lands. Burned areas pose management challenges and opportunities, and increasing our understanding of post-fire plant colonization may assist management decision-making. We examined plant communities, soils, and soil seed banks two years after the 2005 Loop Fire, located in a creosote-blackbrush community in Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area in southern Nevada's Mojave Desert. Based on a spring sampling of 20, 0.01-ha plots, live + dead cover of the exotic annual Bromus rubens averaged nine times lower on the burn than on a paired unburned area. Perennial species composition shifted from dominance by late-successional native shrubs (e.g., Coleogyne ramosissima) on the unburned area, to dominance by native perennial forbs (e.g., Sphaeralcea ambigua, Bailey a multiradiatd) on the burn. Species richness of live plants averaged 26% (100 m scale) and 239% (1 m scale) greater on the burn compared to the unburned area. Only 5% of Larrea tridentata individuals resprouted, compared to 64% of Yucca schidigera and baccata. Fire and microsite (interspace, below L. tridentata, or below Yucca) interacted to affect several 0-5 cm soil properties, with higher pH, conductivity, and total P and on burned Yucca microsites. Bromus rubens density in 0-5 cm soil seed banks was four times lower on the burn, and its distribution among microsites reversed. Below-shrub microsites contained the most B. rubens seeds on the unburned area, but the least on the burned area. Intense fire below shrubs may have increased seed mortality, an idea supported by > 3-fold decreases we found in emergence density after heating seed bank samples to 100C. Our study occurred after a post-fire period of below-average precipitation, underscoring a need for longer term monitoring that characterizes moister years.
41425650|Various Salsola spp. have been introduced to the USA, and some of these are considered noxious or invasive in certain regions. The genus is taxonomically challenging, and recent morphological, cytological, and molecular work has shown that an unknown taxon, previously identified as S. tragus, but recently temporarily designated as Type B, with unknown origins, exists in California and Arizona. Type B's origins and identity are a point of concern for biological control efforts, as it is much less affected by fungal biological control agents than the sympatric invasive S. tragus. Initial studies in 2005 indicated that Type B is morphologically very similar to S. kali subsp. austroafricana which has been collected in southern Africa. Here we use DNA sequence data from a PEPC intron to compare USA and Old World specimens, and results indicate that S. kali subsp. austroafricana is genetically identical to Type B and distinct from S. tragus. It is unclear if S. kali subsp. austroafricana is native to southern Africa or to the northern hemisphere of the Old World, and further investigations in both regions are needed.
41424897|Uroskinnera almedae, a new species from north-central Oaxaca, Mexico, is described and illustrated. The species is unique in the genus by virtue of its relatively long, red corolla and exserted stamens. The distributional range of Uwskinneraflavida is extended from Tabasco to Chiapas. The range of U hirtiflora is extended from Oaxaca and Veracruz to northern Puebla. A key to all species of Uroskinnera that incorporates data from recent collections of U. flavida and U. hirtiflora is presented.The known distribution of each species is plotted on a map. Se describe e ilustra Uroskinnera almedae como especies nueva de la parte nortecentral de Oaxaca, Mxico. El especies se distingue por su corola larga y roja y sus estambres exertas. Uroskinnera flavida se reporta por primera vez para el estado de Chiapas; tambin U. hirtiflora se registre del estado de Puebla. Una clave de todas las especies de Uroskinnera, que incluye informaciones recientes de colecciones de U flavida y U hirtiflora es presentada. Se provee un mapa que muestra la distribucin de cada una de las especies.
41425502|Insects collected on Pholisma sonorae (A. Gray) Yatskievych flowers in the Algodones Dunes, Imperial County, California, were identified and their pollen loads extracted and categorized as P. sonorae or non P. sonorae. Flowers were present during 3 April to 12 June 2001, most abundant on 16 May 2001, and open during the day. Bembix rugosa J. Parker (Hymenoptera: Sphecidae) was collected during most of the flowering season and carried most P. sonorae pollen but had a low flower constancy (percent P. sonorae pollen). Leptoconops californiensis Wirth and Atchley (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) was collected early in the flowering season when other insects were absent and had a high flower constancy. Aphoebantus sp. near rattus Osten Sacken, Aphoebantus marcidus Coquillett, and Aphoebantus mus Osten Sacken (Diptera: Bombyliidae) were the most-collected insects late in the flowering season and carried low to moderate amounts of P. sonorae pollen. One Toxomerus marginatus (Say) (Diptera: Syrphidae), Toxophora pellucida Coquillett (Diptera: Bombyliidae), Mythicomyia intermedia Melander, Mythicomyia spectabilis Hall and Evenhuis, and Mythicomyia uncata Melander (Dptera: Mythicomyiidae) also was collected. Conserving P. sonorae may require conserving B. rugosa, L. californiensis, and Aphoebantus spp. as pollinators.
43289026|Native plants in most California ecosystems are adapted to fire, but altered fire regimes and disturbance from firefighting activity, such as the construction of firebreaks or firelines, can change plant community composition and the ratio of native to nonnative species. In October 2007, a wildfire burned 710 acres through a chaparral/grassland mosaic on an ecological reserve, providing an opportunity to quantify fire and fireline disturbance impacts on native and nonnative species under differing disturbance conditions. In the spring of 2012 we sampled the plant community in three adjacent sites, focusing on Centaurea melitensis, which is a common nonnative invader after fire in California chaparral. The first site was burned and bulldozed, the second site was burned but not bulldozed, and the third site was not burned or bulldozed. The first site had also been sampled in the spring of 2008. After four years within the burned fireline site, the mean relative cover of C. melitensis decreased from 72% to 28%, but its density increased, and there were increases in the covers of nonnative annual grasses, litter, and native plants. Among the three sites in 2012, both of the burned sites had higher density and cover of C. melitensis and lower relative cover of annual grasses than the unburned site. The only site with notable native perennial presence was the burned fireline. The results of our study suggest that the recruitment of C. melitensis and some native species is promoted by fire. In the absence of additional disturbance by firelines, persistence of these taxa is limited by competition from nonnative annual grasses.
41425648|The Sarraceniaceae are a small family of insectivorous herbs native to North and South America. The family is composed of three geographically separated genera, Heliamphora, Darlingtonia and Sarracenia. Recent molecular evidence suggests that Darlingtonia is sister to a Heliamphora-Sarracenia clade. The systematic relationships among the taxa within the genus Sarracenia are uncertain. Within the S. rubra and S. purpurea complexes, five and four infraspecific taxa have been named respectively. In this study, combined Internally Transcribed Spacer 2 and 26S large ribosomal subunit rRNA gene DNA sequences were used to infer phylogenetic relationships among the genera within Sarraceniaceae and the specific and subspecific taxa within Sarracenia. Results from this study support the sister relationship between Darlingtonia and a Sarracenia-Heliamphora clade. Within the genus Sarracenia, S. purpurea is sister to all remaining species. Additionally, the four named infraspecific taxa of S. purpurea are resolved in a well-supported clade. However, the five named subspecific taxa of S. rubra are part of a polytomy without discernable structure. This study suggests that S. purpurea ssp. purpurea var. burkii (which has been named a separate species as S. rosea) may be considered a distinct species. If so treated, then the number of species of Sarracenia stands at nine.
41425139|We tested the hypothesis that prescribed burning and intense, short-duration grazing of the California annual grassland by sheep would increase emergence and survival of perennial bunchgrass seedlings at the Jepson Prairie Preserve in Solano County, California. Seeds of Nassella (Stipa) pulchra (Hitchc.) Barkworth, either from a bulk seed collection or in three weight classes, were planted along paired transects on two topographic locations with differing soil depth. Treatment combinations that included burning or spring grazing produced higher rates of emergence than other treatments, but only in the first season after the burn. Very few seedlings (0.01%) survived in any treatment to the end of the fourth growing season. Although burning, grazing, and topography influenced the emergence of seedlings, survival to a mature stage appeared to be more strongly influenced by factors not manipulated or monitored in this study. Based on these data, we suggest that recruitment into the N. pulchra population may be strongly influenced by climatic variables and that the effectiveness of management techniques may be dependent on annual climatic variation. Management techniques for increasing N. pulchra populations must account for numerous and potentially specific habitat requirements of seedlings.
41425210|Clarkia mildrediae subsp. lutescens is a newly described subspecies that is readily distinguished from subsp. mildrediae by the color of its anthers which may be bright yellow, yellow-orange, light orange or red-orange on different plants while those of subsp. mildrediae are magenta. Subspecies lutescens has a separate and nonoverlapping geographical distribution primarily in Butte and Plumas Counties where subsp. mildrediae is also found. Within subsp. lutescens, the proportion of plants with bright yellow anthers varies among populations from 98% to none. Bright yellow is homozygous and true breeding and is allelic to red-orange. Plants from populations with high proportions of bright yellow anthers also have shorter and narrower petals. Hybrids between the two subspecies are fully fertile.
41425636|Following our recent discovery of seven new Shasta snow-wreath populations during 2003 and 2004, we conducted a GIS analysis using location data from the new sites, and from all previously known sites to determine the habitat, geologic, and soil characteristics of each Shasta snow-wreath population location. Previously considered a species only associated with limestone substrates, our new information shows that 47% of all known Shasta snow-wreath sites occur on non-limestone geologic or soil types.
41426266|Azorella diversifolia var. antillanca is described as a new variety from Chile. This variety differs from A. diversifolia Clos ex Gay var. diversifolia by its divided leaves and a distribution primarily within the eastern portion of Region XI (Los Lagos). Se describe una nueva variedad, Azorella diversifolia var. antillanca, del Parque Nacional Puyehue, Chile. Esta variedad es diferente de A. diversifolia Clos ex Gay var. diversifolia en la divisin de sus hojas y una distribucin en el este de Region XI (Los Lagos).
41424722|Myrtus alternifolia, a species of long standing uncertain generic affinities, is transferred to Calycolpus. This transfer is based on characteristics of the seed coat, embryo, calyx, anthers, and vessel elements. A revised description of Calycolpus is provided. Myrtus alternifolia, una especie que desde hace mucho tiempo ha sido de afinidades genricas inciertas, se transfiere a Calycolpus. Este cambio se basa en caractersticas de la testa de la semilla, el embrin, el cliz, las anteras, y los elementos vasculares. Se provee una descripcin revisada de Calycolpus.
41425412|RAPD fingerprints were generated from seven wild populations of Juniperus communis L. to assess whether molecular data support subdivision into vars. saxatilis, jackii and sibirica, members of California Floristic Province, and depressa, a component of the Great Basin Floristic Province. Results from UPGMA and Neighbor Joining cluster analyses showed little correspondence between RAPD-derived distances and varietal boundaries. Juniperus communis var. jackii, in particular, was highly heterogeneous, lending support to the hypothesis that the characteristic growth habit of this serpentine dweller (elongated, sparsely branched lateral branches) is environmentally induced. In contrast to the RAPD results, nucleotide sequences of the ITS1 region of nuclear ribosomal DNA were identical in four of five var. jackii individuals sequenced, and the fifth exhibited three base substitutions.
41425812|We describe Arceuthobium abietinum subspecies wiensii (Wiens' dwarf mistletoe, Viscaceae), a dwarf mistletoe that severely parasitizes red fir and Brewer spruce in northwestern California and southwestern Oregon. This classification is based on morphological and host range differences between white fir dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium abietinum f. sp. concoloris), red fir dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium abietinum f. sp. magnificae), and Wien's dwarf mistletoe. Male and female plants of Wiens' dwarf mistletoe were consistently smaller than those of both white fir and red fir dwarf mistletoes, whose plants were about the same size. The shoot color of Wiens' dwarf mistletoe was frequently green-brown or red-brown, while the shoot color of white fir and red fir dwarf mistletoes was typically yellow-green or yellow. Differences in host specificity also distinguish Wiens' dwarf mistletoe from white and red fir dwarf mistletoes. Se describe Arceuthobium abietinum subespecie wiensii (murdago enano de Wiens, Viscaceae), un murdago enano que parasita severamente a Abies magnifica y a Picea breweriana en el noroeste de California y suroeste de Oregon. Esta clasificacin se basa en diferencias morfolgicas y de hospederos entre el murdago enano del oyamel blanco (Arceuthobium abietinum f. sp. concoloris), el del oyamel rojo (Arceuthobium abietinum f. sp. magnificae), y el de Wiens. Las plantas masculinas y femeninas del murdago enano de Wiens son consistentemente ms pequeas que las del murdago enano del oyamel blanco y las del oyamel rojo, las cuales son de tamao similar entre s. E1 color de las ramas del murdago enano de Wiens fue frecuentemente caf verdoso a caf rojizo, mientras que el de los murdagos del oyamel blanco y del oyamel rojo tpicamente fue verde amarillo o amarillo. Adicionalmente, el murdago enano de Wiens se distingue de los otros dos por diferencias en la especificidad de sus hospederos.
41425612|In fire-prone vegetation, non-sprouting, obligate-seeding species depend on a persistent seed bank to reestablish post-fire populations. Thus, for such seeds, seed development and survival in the soil are critical life history stages. The objectives of our study were to examine the structure and composition of Ceanothus seed banks, analyze the viability of seeds in the soil, and determine rates of prdation before and after seed dispersal. This study focused on populations of Ceanothus jepsonii var. albiflorus (J.Howell), which is restricted to serpentine soils. We also included data on Ceanothus cuneatus (Hook.) Nutt., a widespread, non-restricted species, for comparison. We found that the seed bank of C. jepsonii loses seeds due to destruction or removal at several stages of development. Pre-dispersal seed predators attacked 37% of inflorescences included in experimentation and up to 50% of shrubs from which fruits were collected, post-dispersal predators removed over 70% of seeds in the litter. There was a 30% reduction in viability of older intact C. jepsonii seeds in the soil compared to seeds collected from plants during the study. A beetle in the genus Zabrotes, not previously known to oviposit on Ceanothus, was determined to be a causal agent of pre-dispersal seed prdation, with other pre-dispersal predators and parasites also possible. These findings suggest that Ceanothus seed banks are quite dynamic and subject to a variety of seed losses during several stages prior to germination, which may ultimately be responsible for soil seed banks remaining relatively constant rather than building up over time.
41425085|A floristic study of the family Poaceae from Aguascalientes, Mexico has been completed. Sixty-nine genera and 178 species were recorded, of which 43 are new records for the State, most of them from localities difficult of access in the Municipio of San Jos de Gracia. Taxa which represent new records are listed, along with habitat and distribution data for each. Se llev a cabo un estudio floristico de la familia Poaceae en Aguascalientes, Mxico. Se registraron 69 genera y 178 especies, 43 de ellas resultaron ser nuevos registros para el Estado, muchos de ellos colectados en localidades de dificil acceso, en el Municipio de San Jos de Gracia. Se presenta un listado de estos taxa con datos adicionales sobre habitat y distribucin para cada taxn.
41425241|Stipa shoshoneana is a new grass species principally from east-central Idaho, but with a disjunct population in the Belted Range of southern Nevada. Stipa shoshoneana is allied with Eurasian species of Stipa L. sect. Lasiagrostis (Link) Hackel, and with North American stipoids historically assigned to Oryzopsis sensu ampio. Vegetative features, panicles, glumes, anthoecia, and flowers approximate Stipa canadensis Poir., but the lemma callus and awn morphology resemble Oryzopsis pungens (Torr.) A.S. Hitchc.
41424976|A total of 73 plant taxa were identified from three packrat (Neotoma sp.) middens radiocarbon dated between 14,550 and 5020 yr B. P. from Wolcott Peak in Ragged Top, Pima County, Arizona. Most (80.1%) of the plants still grow in the area although only 17.8% still occur at the midden site. Fourteen late Wisconsin woodland/chaparral species (19.2%) were locally extirpated in the Holocene. Today five (6.5%) occur in nearby (< 5 km), five in moderately distant (< 40 km), and four (5.5%) in more distant (90-135 km) mountain ranges. Agave deserti was associated with Juniperus osteosperma, Opuntia whipplei, and Pinus monophylla in the late Wisconsin but their ranges no longer overlap. The Ragged Top flora shifted composition in the Holocene as woodland species died out and Sonoran desertscrub species arrived at different times. Relict populations of Quercus turbinella, Vauquelinia californica, and Yucca baccata reflect cooler, winter-rainfall ice age climates prior to about 8900 years ago. Isolated populations of Echinopepon wrightii, Ipomoea cristulata, and Pisonia capitata were likely established by chance seed dispersals 4000 to 8900 years ago in more subtropical climates of the middle Holocene.
41424926|Cremastopus, a small cucurbit genus, differs from Cyclanthera by only one character, single-seeded fruits. The presence of numerous shared characters between the two taxa indicates that the species of Cremastopus should be transferred to Cyclanthera. Cremastopus, un genero pequeo de Cucurbitaceae, se distingue de Cyclanthera por solo un carcter, frutos de una sola semilla. La presencia de caractersticas numerosas en comun entre los dos grupos indica que las especies de Cremastopus deben de transferirse a Cyclanthera.
41425288|This paper describes the understory light environments and gap dynamics of forests in the watershed of Maddock Creek, Big Basin Redwoods State Park, Santa Cruz County, CA. Most of this 230 ha watershed is covered by old-growth forests representative of upland redwood forests and the Pseudotsuga hardwood forests which intergrade with them. Species of canopy trees include Sequoia sempervirens (D. Don) Endl., Lithocarpus densiflorus (Hook. & Arn.) Rehder, Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirbel) Franco, Arbutus menziesii Pursh, and Quercus chrysolepis Liebm., in descending order of cover. In the understory of these forests, total light was about 12% of that incident upon the canopy. Understory light levels differed between aspects and were influenced by canopy species composition and gaps. Except for Lithocarpus, regeneration of canopy species was associated with higher understory light levels and the species less tolerant of shade {Arbutus, Pseudotsuga, and Quercus) filled more gaps on the south-facing slopes, where light levels were higher. In contrast, Lithocarpus was abundant throughout the understory, present in most gaps at a high cover, and filling twice as many canopy gaps as it had formed. In the presence of surface fires, we suggest that Lithocarpus would not increase in dominance. However, in the absence of fire, our results indicate an increasing dominance by Lithocarpus, and suggest that interspecific differences in shade cast and shade tolerated are contributing to the dynamics of forests in central coastal California.
41424905|The monotypic genus Heterogaura is combined with Clarkia, resulting in the new combination Clarkia heterandra that is placed in a new section Heterogaura. Plants previously described as Clarkia nitens and C. parviflora are assigned subspecific status in C. speciosa and C. xantiana, respectively. The rationale for these changes is presented and possible origins of C. heterandra are discussed.
41425547|Flower longevity interacts with other variables such as pollinator visitation and plant resources to control fruit set and seed production of many flowering plants. This study examined temporal patterns of floral longevity for Opuntia engelmannii Salm-Dyck. (Engelmann prickly-pear), a shrubby cactus common in the northern Sonoran Desert. Observations made at Tumamoc Hill, Tucson, AZ, USA, demonstrated that the flowers can open on a single day or two consecutive days. On average, one-day flowers opened at 1100 hr and closed 5.5 hr later at 1630 hr (MST). Flowers that bloomed on two consecutive days were open altogether for an average of 12.2 hr. Their first day of bloom lasted about 6.5 hr, beginning around 1000 hr and ending at about 1630 hr; on their second day, two-day flowers opened at 0830 hr and closed shortly after 1400 hr. The proportion of two-day flowers in the population was inversely related to maximum temperature on the first day of bloom and minimum temperature between the first and second days of bloom. Flowers opening in the afternoon were more likely to bloom a second day than those opening in the morning. Flowers open for the second time offered significantly less nectar and pollen than freshly opened flowers; nevertheless, rewards on the second day were high enough to encourage visitation by potential pollinators. Patterns of daily opening and closing appeared well suited to reducing the risk of poor or no pollination. La longevidad de flores se relaciona con otros factores como visitas de polinizadores y recursos de la planta para regular la produccin de frutas y semillas. Esta investigacin examina los patrones temporales de longevidad en flores de Opuntia engelmannii Salm-Dyck. (el nopal de Engelmann), un cactus comn del norte del Desierto Sonorense. Observaciones en Tumamoc Hill, Tucson, Arizona, EEUU, demostran que las flores se abren un o dos das. Flores que abren por solo un da abrieron a las once de la maana y cerraron a las cuatro y media de la tarde. Las que florecen por dos das seguidos se quedaron abiertos por un promedio de 12.2 horas en total. Su primer da de floracin dur ~ 6.5 horas, comenzando a ms o menos las diez de la maana y terminando a ms o menos las quatro y media de la tarde. En su segundo da las flores de dos das abrieron a las ocho y media de la maana y cerraron poco despus de las dos de la tarde. El porcentaje de las flores de dos das en la poblacin esta relacionado inversamente con la temperatura mxima en el primer da de floracin y la temperatura mnima entre los dos das de floracin. Las flores que abren por la tarde fueron ms probables de durar dos das que sas que abren por la maana. Las flores abiertas en su segundo da tuvieron menos nctar y polen que flores recin abiertas. Sin embargo, el nctar y polen en el segundo da fueron suficiente abundante para alentar las visitas de polinizadores potenciales. Patrones de abrir y cerrar a diario parecen bien apropriados para reducir el riesgo de polinizacin inadecuada.
41424649|Seed dispersal of Ceanothus cuneatus and C. leucodermis was studied in an oak-woodland community in the central Sierra Nevada of California. As the capsule of Ceanothus (usually containing three seeds) matures and dries, it opens with force and ejects its seeds at varying distances. Seed-casting, in relation to date, showed a skewed polynomial distribution that peaked early in July and gradually tapered off. The active seed-casting period lasted two weeks in the one year of study. Phenology of fruit ripening, temperature, and humidity were related directly to time and rate of seed-casting. About one-third of the seeds fell beneath the canopy, whereas the remainder were cast away from the shrub in an exponential density distribution. Forty-two percent of the seeds (average density of 2850 m) fell at the edge of the shrub and 1.9% (average density of 10 m) at 9 m. The probabilities that seeds would be cast within specific distances from the shrub were 29% (at the edge of the shrub to 2 m), 33% (4-6 m), and 21% (8-9 m).
41426142|Platystemon californiens Benth. (Papaveraceae) is unique among Papaveraceae in producing a multicarpellate, semiapocarpous gynoecium. Seeds are most often dispersed singly, enclosed within a persistent pericarp that forms single-seeded joints. However, all plants in occasional populations are heteromericarpous: they also produce some seeds within the central chamber of the fruit that are dispersed as naked seeds. Naked seeds germinate after a dormant period of approximately four months while enclosed seeds remain dormant much longer under germination conditions used in this study. Differences in germination behavior are controlled by the presence or absence of the persistent pericarp. The diaspores and germination characteristics of P. californiens most closely resemble those of heteromericarpous Cruciferae.
41425355|We studied the crown structure of the Washington Tree (Sequoiadendron giganteum (Lindley) Buchholz) in Sequoia National Park, California. The tree was 77.3 m tall and 9.1 m basal diameter. Its total volume was 1403.2 m , including the main trunk (1357.3 m) and 46 reiterated trunks (45.8 m).The main trunk was hollow, and 133.2 m of wood volume was missing. A 35-m deep, 2-3-m wide pit extended into the heart of the main trunk below 58 m. The microclimate at the bottom of the pit was dark, cool, and humid. Fire and fungal decay apparently contributed to the formation of the pit. Some charred wood was evident throughout the pit, but most of this had fallen away and been replaced by decayed wood. The walls of the pit in the lower 17 m were spongy, wet, and covered by fungal mycelia.
41425243|Surveys of herbaceous flora found in flower in the eastern central Sierra Nevada (Nevada) demonstrated the influence of climate variability on herbaceous phenology and observed species richness. Mid-summer surveys conducted in two climatically different years showed differences in number of flowering species (greater in the wetter year) and their characteristic phenological class (more early-vs. late-flowering species in the wetter year). Between year variation in phenology and species richness appeared to be keyed to snowpack duration, spring and summer moisture availability, and early growing season temperatures. Responses in mesic habitats were greater than in xeric sites. Phenological responses to climate variability can be interpreted in terms of displacement, compression, and amplification of the phenological cycle. Comparison of the two surveys suggests that both displacement and amplification generated observed differences. In the wetter year, late snowpack and lower spring temperatures delayed flowering times and greater spring and early summer moisture resulted in greater observed species richness. Sensitivity of herbaceous species in these montane habitats to year-to-year differences in climate highlights the importance of considering effects of climate variability on phenology and population dynamics in short-duration plant biodiversity surveys and long-term monitoring programs.
41424501|Ten stands of mixed evergreen forest were sampled at 16 locations using belt transects to estimate density and basal area of overstory tree species, and small quadrats to estimate cover of understory species. Physical environmental variables were measured at each quadrat. Ordination based on overstory composition showed four distinct clusters, but that based on understory composition showed little differentiation.The overstory types included Pseudotsuga-harawood and mixed hardwood phases, thus incorporating both north and south extremes of this wide-ranging forest type. No correlation was found between overstory or understory composition and measured site characteristics.
41425293|Vernal pools in the Mayacmas Mountains of southeastern Mendocino County, CA typically occupy topographic depressions related to landslide dams and fissures. A group of pools within a 1290 ha study area range in size from 180 to 3069 m 2 , and are located at elevations between 329 and 902 m on slopes of oak woodland and chaparral. Eryngium aristulatum Jepson var. aristulatum and Isoetes howellii Engelm.codominate shallow, wide-margined pools and are associated with vernal pool specialist taxa such as Gratiola, Navarretia, Plagiobothrys, and Pogogyne. Deep, narrow-margined pools are characterized by cosmopolitan wetland taxa such as Callitriche, Carex, Eleocharis, Juncus, and Ranunculus. Plant surveys conducted in 1996 and 1999 indicate no significant change in species abundance or composition between the two years.
41425811|The names of two eastern North Pacific kelps (Phaeophyceae, Laminariales, Alariaceae) were inadvertently validated by Josephine Tilden on labels to specimens distributed in the exsiccata "American Algae". Lectotypes for Lessonia littoralis and Pleurophycus gardneri, which concomitantly are the types of the names of the monospecific genera Lessoniopsis and Pleurophycus, respectively, are herein designated from among specimens housed in the Herbarium of the University of Minnesota, Tilden's home institution. Lessoniopsis ranges from Kodiak Island, Alaska, to the Big Sur coast of Monterey County, California, whereas Pleurophycus ranges from southeastern Alaska to Pt. Piedras Blancas, San Luis Obispo County, California. Molecular data suggest that both Lessoniopsis and Pleurophycus belong to the Alariaceae, a departure from their previous familial placements in the Lessoniaceae and Laminariaceae, respectively.
41426319|Sidalcea nelsoniana (Nelson's checkermallow) is a federally threatened plant native to wetlands of the Willamette Valley, Oregon, USA. Wise conservation and management of this species requires an understanding of its hydrologie tolerance. Because of extreme habitat loss, the current distribution of this species might not reflect the full range of suitable habitats. The purpose of this study was to test the effect of flooding on S. nelsoniana survival and vigor. Rhizome fragments collected from mature individuals were transplanted into 32 15-cm pots exposed to four artificially maintained flooding conditions: drained soil, saturated soil with no standing water, standing water mid-November through mid-April, and standing water mid-November through mid-June. All plants with drained soil died as the spring rains declined, and all plants flooded past April died by mid-June. Plants in saturated soils and those flooded until mid-April were most successful and similar in survival; number, height, and cover of leaves; and number and height of flowering stems. These two treatments most closely match conditions now found in Willamette Valley wetland prairies, suggesting that the current distribution of S. nelsoniana does reflect its hydrologie tolerance. Management recommendations to flood a population of S. nelsoniana beyond mid-April are likely to harm this protected species.
41425248|Riparian ecosystems in the mountains of southern California are characterized by unusually dynamic conditions of fluvial disturbance, fire, landslides, and other physical processes. Riparian communities and associated wetland habitats make up less than 1% of the land area of the Santa Monica Mountains of southern California but are the primary habitat for nearly 20% of the native vascular plant flora. While the conditions responsible for such high biodiversity has not been well investigated, the dynamic disturbance regime and seasonal availability of water in riparian ecosystems are two critical factors. In comparison to the total native flora of the Santa Monica Mountains, riparian specialists (i.e., those species with their primary ecological occurrence in such habitats) showed a higher relative frequency of herbaceous perennials, and a lower relative frequency of woody shrubs, geophytes, and annuals. Winter deciduous growth habit characterizes nearly 80% of the woody riparian specialists, a far higher level than in comparable non-riparian species. Compound to the total flora, riparian specialists were found to have relatively broader geographic patterns of distribution within California. No rare or endangered species are included in the riparian-specialist flora of the mountains. Biological diversity of native plant species in riparian communities appears to be negatively impacted by human disturbance. Habit modification, weedy exotic species introductions, stream channel modification, and heavy recreational use all appear to lead to sharp reductions in plant species diversity. Without additional knowledge of the demography and ecology of potentially keystone riparian species, it is impossible to accurately model the impact of anthropogenic disturbance regimes on the structure and stability of these riparian ecosystems.
41424740|Pinus lagunae extends from 1200 to 2000 m only on the Sierra de la Laguna, Baja California Sur, Mexico. This study provides descriptions of habitat, soil characteristics, composition and cover of herbaceous vegetation, and physiography. Three forest types are described: one of Pinus lagunae only, the others with Pinus lagunae and Quercus devia.
41424370|The flora of the high montane, subalpine and alpine region of the Sierra Nevada of California is believed to include four derivation categories: Old Cordilleran, Circumboreal, Lowland Californian, and Great Basin Desert. Although these elements have mingled to the extent that species belonging to all four of them can be associated in the same community, nevertheless, they differ from each other with respect to the proportion of Sierran endemics that they have contributed, as well as with respect to growth habits and ecological preferences. The present review is regarded as a preliminary effort to provide a new tool for analyzing the phytogeographic, floristic, and ecological characteristics of the flora.
41426213|Although Olympic Peninsula plants were among the first in the Pacific Northwest to be seen by a European botanist (Archibald Menzies, May 1792), comparatively little botanical attention has been given to the area since then. This paper notes the addition of more than a hundred native taxa that are not attributed to the Peninsula in standard floras of the area (Piper 1906, Piper and Beattie 1915, Frye 1934, Jones 1936, Abrams and Ferris 1940-1960, Hitchcock et al. 1955-1969, Hitchcock and Cronquist 1974) or in other floras whose ranges sometimes include or closely approach the Peninsula (Henry 1915, Hultn 1968, Welsh 1974, Fernald 1970). A number of these additions are included in the regionally published catalog of vascular plants of this area (Buckingham and Tisch 1979).
41424883|Rosa stellate subspecies abyssa, a new taxon from the rims of the Grand Canyon and Kanab Canyon in northwestern AZ, is described and illustrated. It differs from related taxa in having densely bristly hypanthia and densely stipitate-glandular stems.
41424622|This survey includes maps and provides descriptions of the distribution of 22 Pacific Coast temperate trees, including two endemics, in northern Baja California, from the international border south to latitude 30. Ranges were discerned from aerial photographs and verified by field reconnaissance, botanical collections, and a lowaltitude aerial flight. With the exception of mixed conifer and pinyon forests, most forests comprise single tree species that represent fragments of more diverse ecosystems from more mesic areas of California. The rapid decline in the diversity of Pacific Coast temperate trees below the international border reflects strong precipitation gradients associated with orography. Several California tree species have been reported erroneously in northern Baja California due to the misidentification of specimens, or the misinterpretation of common plant names or place names.
41424635|Vegetation on Ring Mountain Preserve, Marin Co., California, was sampled and plant communities were determined according to natural but dynamic boundaries. Six plant communities were identified primarily by their dominant life form: serpentine bunchgrass, mixed broadleaf evergreen forest, non-native grassland, northern coyote brush, freshwater marsh, and freshwater seep. Species composition, percent cover, and frequency of occurrence were recorded, and the percentage of the total flora and areal cover of exotic species was determined for each community. The serpentine bunchgrass community occupied the greatest areal extent and contained the smallest percentage of exotic species, both in frequency of occurrence and cover. In contrast, the non-native annual grassland community, although second in areal coverage, was dominated by exotic grasses and broad-leaved forbs. The remaining four plant communities are lesser components of the total vegetation. These vary greatly in percent cover and frequency of exotic species, which in turn are dependent on the phase of the community and the degree of past disturbance.
41426311|A new moss species, Didymodon eckeliae R. H. Zander, is described from San Diego County in southern California. It is distinguished from its closest relatives in Didymodon sect. Vineales mainly by scalloped and bistratose leaf margins.
41424712|A new species of Astragalus from the White Mountains of Arizona is described and its possible relationships discussed. Its unusual morphology combines features found in two western North American sections of the genus. Morphological evidence suggests it is most closely related to species in section Mollissimi, although it possesses several character states that are unusual in the context of that section.
41425510|In Santa Barbara County, research and restoration on vernal wetlands has historically concentrated on coastal areas. Emerging conservation issues have highlighted the need for more information about the floristic composition of vernal wetlands in the interior region of the County. This paper provides data on the vegetation of the Long Canyon vernal pond complex on the University of California's Sedgwick Reserve collected during the El Nio-dominated winter and spring of 1997-1998. A multivariate vegetation analysis was used to compare the site's species composition with other localities in the region. The analysis was supplemented by a simulation-based error analysis evaluating the potential impacts of species omission on Sorensen similarity distances. Floristically, the Sedgwick Reserve vernal ponds were expected to align most closely with nearby vernal pools in Northern Santa Barbara County. However, the results do not support this hypothesis; rather, the wetlands are most similar to coastal vernal pools along the south coast of Santa Barbara County.
41425250|Cercidium floridum A. Gray ssp. floridum and C. microphyllum (Torrey) Rose & I. M. Johnston (Fabaceae) hybridize where they have overlapping distributions in an area between Earp, and Parker Dam, CA. In this area, the two species have substantially overlapping blooming times, but are normally ecologically separated by habitat requirements with C. floridum ssp. floridum preferring the sandy washes and C. microphyllum preferring the volcanic rocky slopes of the Whipple Mountains immediately adjacent to the washes. The hybrids tend to be found only on the sandy terraces between the wash and the mountains or on the sand dunes in the area. The best diagnostic traits for distinguishing the parental species and their hybrids include leaflet length, banner petal width and color, legume shape in cross section, the degree of constriction between seeds in the legume, and the seed shape in cross section. Introgression from C. microphyllum into C. floridum ssp. floridum may be occurring, but there is presently only limited evidence of any reciprocal introgression. The taxonomic and evolutionary significance of hybridization between these two taxa is discussed. En un rea entre Earp, California, y la represa Parker se han encontrado hbridos entre Cercidiwn floridum A. Gray ssp. floridum y C. microphyllum (Torrey) Rose & I. M. Johnston. Estas dos especies se encuentran separadas ecolgicamente ya que el habitat preferido por C. floridum ssp. floridum esta representado por lechos arenosos mientras que C. microphyllum prefiere las laderas montaosas de la cadena Whipple formadas por roca volcnica que bordean dichos lechos de ro. Sin embargo, en esta zona la distribucin de estas dos especies tienen una distribucin superpresta y adems comparten un perodo de florecimiento comn. Los hbridos se encuentran primordialmente en las terrazas arenosas localizadas entre las montaas y los lechos arenosos o en las dunas que se encuentran en el rea. Los razgos caractersticos mas apropiados para distinguir entre las especies paternas y los hbridos incluyen el largo de las hojuelas folilos, el ancho y color del petalo central superior, la forma del corte transversal de la vaina, el grado de constriccin la vaina entre las semillas, y la forma del corte transversal de la semilla. Aunque se observa una aparente introgresin de C. microphyllum en C. floridum ssp. floridum, evidencia introgresin recproca es limitada. El significado entre la taxonoma y la evolucin de hibridacin de estas taxas se discuten.
41702547|Nomenclature of subdivisions within Phacelia Juss. (Boraginaceae: Hydrophylloideae) reflects an update to the classification of the genus, based largely upon the structure offered in summary by Ferguson. We consider this proposed classification a continuation of efforts to better understand interrelationships within the genus and tribe Romanzoffieae Dumort., and anticipate future research offering insights into systematics of Phacelia. New names, changes in status, and combinations include the following: Phacelia sect. Baretiana Walden & R. Patt., sect, nov.; P. subsect. Bipinnatifidae (Small) Walden & R. Patt., stat. nov.; P. subsect. Cosmantha (Nolte ex A. de Candolle) Walden & R. Patt., stat. nov.; P. subsect. Cosmanthoides (A. Gray) Walden & R. Patt., stat. nov.; P. subsect. Dubiae (Small) Walden & R. Patt., stat. nov.; P. subsect. Eutoca (R. Br.) Walden & R. Patt., stat. nov.; P. sect. Glandulosae (Rydb.) Walden & R. Patt., stat. nov.; P. subsect. Humiles Walden & R. Patt., subsect. nov.; P. subsect. Lineares (Rydb.) Walden & R. Patt., stat. nov.; P. sect. Pachyphyllae Walden & R. Patt., sect, nov.; P. subg. Pulchellae (Rydb.) Walden & R. Patt., stat. nov.; P. sect. Ramosissimae (Rydb.) Walden & R. Patt., stat. nov.; P. subsect. Ranunculacea Walden & R. Patt., subsect. nov.; and P. subsect. Sericeae (Rydb.) Walden & R. Patt., stat. nov.
41424593|Secondary succession in former sheep pastures in the northern California coastal prairie favors cover dominance by perennials, especially grasses. Studies of secondary succession at Sea Ranch, Sonoma County, show that the relative cover is dominated increasingly by Anthoxanthum odoratum, an introduced perennial grass. Native species are not successful at increasing their cover during succession and are unlikely to regain cover dominance in the coastal prairie.
41424680|Lupinus group Microcarpi occurs disjunctly in North and South America, primarily in central California and Chile. This study addresses the question of whether the disjunct representatives, variously referred to L. microcarpus, L. densiflorus, L. ruber or L. subvexus, are distinct. Data for vegetative and floral features were taken from South American specimens and were compared to those from population samples from California. The analyses show that some South American plants are smaller, but in all features have a range of variation within that of California plants. Affinities of the South American specimens were assessed by multigroup discriminant analysis and an a posteriori classification procedure whereby each one was assigned to a population sample from California. The South American specimens were assigned to a few California populations identified as L. densiflorus, L. subvexus and L. ruber, or intermediates between them. Neither floral nor vegetative features can be used to distinguish the South American representatives of group Microcarpi from some North American representatives. Lupinus del grupo Microcarpi ocurre descontinuadamente en Amrica del Norte y del Sur, principalmente en California Central y en Chile. Este estudio se dirige a tratar de resolver la pregunta que si las especies llamadas L. microcarpus, L. densiflorus, L. ruber y L. subvexus son distintas. Los datos de las caractersticas vegetativas y florales fueron tomados de ejemplares sudamericanos y comparados con ejemplares obtenidos de poblaciones en California. El anlisis de los datos indica que algunas de las plantas sudamericanas son ms pequeas que las de California, pero en todas las otras caractersticas, el rango de varacin est dentro del que se obtiene de los ejemplares obtenidos en California. Las afinidades de los ejemplares sudamericanos fueron valorados por medio de un anlisis discriminative multigrupo y un mtodo de clasificacin de posterioridad en el cual cada uno de los ejemplares sudamericanos fueron asignados a una muestra de la poblacin de California. Los ejemplares sudamericanos se asignaron a unas poblaciones californianas identificadas como L. densiflorus, L. ruber y L. subvexus o especies intermedias. Las caractersticas vegetativas y florales no se pueden usar para distinguir entre las especies obtenidas en Amrica del Sur y aquellas obtenidas en California.
41425081|Growth, fecundity and demography of the cactus Coryphantha robbinsorum are described based on a five year study of three permanent plots in Cochise County, Arizona. Four size stages were recognized: seeds, juveniles  11 mm diameter (J1), juveniles > 11 mm diameter (J2), and adults (A). Mean numbers of plants per year per meter 2 were 1.11 in Plots A and C, and 0.70 in Plot B. The number of flowers and fruits produced annually by each adult was determined. The smallest plants to flower (become adults) were 13 mm in diameter. More than half of the plants flowered upon attaining an 18 mm diameter. Large adults produced more flowers and fruits than did small adults. During the five years, over 50% of the fruit produced by the population came from 25 individuals who represented only 23% of the adult population. The average number of fruits produced annually per adult was 1.58  0.89 (mean  1 SD). Number of recruits to J1 was negatively correlated with total rainfall during the 12 months preceding the census. Percent survival of J1 individuals was positively correlated with winter rainfall. Neither percent mortality of J2 and adult individuals, nor fruit and flower production were significantly correlated with preceding summer, winter or annual rainfall. This cactus has a survivorship pattern with a high mortality of seeds (0.9999 individuals per year, estimated based on 33 seeds per fruit) and a decreasing mortality for each stage thereafter (J1 juveniles: 0.209; J2 juveniles: 0.054; adults: 0.027, measured). There were differences between the plots in transition and survival rates measured for the various stage classes. The finite rate of increase () ranged from 1.0036 to 1.0941 for the three plots. The average  for the 3 plots, 1.0464, predicts a doubling time for the population of about 16 years. Elasticity analysis of  to various demographic parameters shows that, during the early 1990' s adult survivorship contributed most (46-87%) to , J2 survivorship and the combined contribution of all growth parameters were less important than adult survivorship in their effect on , and fecundity and J1 survivorship were least important. A simulation experiment shows that a hypothetical increase to 50 seeds per fruit would change the average  from 1.046 to 1.098; and a reduction to 6 seeds per fruit would change  to 1.003. Projection of the matrix model suggests that C. robbinsorum is long-lived. At a stable age distribution, the mean age in the J1 stage is estimated to be 1.1-2.0 years, the J2 stage to be 3.4-5.1 years, and the adult stage to be about 17 years. The mean age of parents of offspring produced in a stable age distribution, , is 17.05 years.
41425696|Changes are made in the nomenclature of species and subspecies in the genus Arctostaphylos (Ericaceae). In this study, the focus is on species found in the coast ranges of California. Changes are made in A. nortensis from the area around the Oregon border with California, in the A. nevadensis complex in the North Coast Ranges, in the A. nummularia complex of the north to central coast, in the A. tomentosa complex of the central coast to the Channel Islands, and in the A. hookeri and A. pilosula complex of the central coast. Also discussed are other changes presented elsewhere that will affect the Arctostaphylos treatment in the next edition of the Jepson Manual.
41425515|Navarretia willamettensis is a newly described species inhabiting vernal pools and similar habitats in the Willamette Valley of western Oregon. Navarretia saximontana is a newly described species inhabiting ephemeral wetlands of the Rocky Mountains, Colorado Plateau and Great Plains. Both species pertain to the N. leucocephala group of N. section Navarretia and have been confused with N. intertexta and N. leucocephala subsp. minima.
41424826|Cirsium parryi subsp. mogollonicum is applied to a local variant of Cirsium parryi discovered on the Mogollon Escarpment, Arizona. The white fresh corollas and nearly entire basal and cauline leaves of this understory, canyon dwelling subspecies distinguish it from the other members of the C. parryi complex that includes the Wooton and Standley segregates, C. gilense, C. inornatum, and C. pallidum, of wet meadows/parklands. Mature leaves of C. parryi subsp. parryi and the Wooton and Standley segretates are sinuately toothed to sinuately lobed and corollas are described as yellowochroleucous. Type material of Cirsium gilense and C. inornatum appears to differ little from variation noted in C. parryi subsp. parryi and perhaps should again be submerged within C parryi. The relatively long, linear, densely pubescent tips of the outer and middle phyllaries noted on the holotype of Cirsium pallidum serve to distinguish this taxon from others in the complex.
41424953|Crataegus monogyna, a hawthorn native to Europe, has successfully invaded much of North America since its introduction approximately 200 years ago. Successful dispersal by avian frugivores, relative to the native biota, may be one reason why C. monogyna is so invasive. To address this hypothesis I compared the attractiveness of C. monogyna and C. douglasii suksdorfii (the native hawthorn) to their primary dispersal agent (American robins) in western Oregon. A companion study in western Oregon (Sallabanks 1993) identified three Crataegus traits correlated with pome removal by robins: pome crop size, mean pome size, and mean pome pulp-to-pyrene ratio. With respect to these dispersal-related traits, C. monogyna was found to be superior to its native counterpart, producing larger displays of higher quality pomes. These results offer an explanation for the observed patterns of distribution and abundance of C.monogyna and C. douglasii suksdorfii at the study site specifically, and in western Oregon in general. To conclude I suggest possible recommendations for management against monogyna and for frugivorous birds.
41424357|Additional collections of Trichostema mexicanum Epling from the Chihuahuan Desert indicate it can be consistently separated from the more wide-ranging T. arizonicum of the mountains of Chihuahua, Sonora and adjacent Arizona and New Mexico. The former has smaller, completely blue-violet flowers and recognizable differences in inflorescence development and vestiture.
41425269|Crotn californicus is reportedly a dioecious plant species. In the present study, monoecious morphs were observed in four populations of southern California. The prevalence of monoecious individuals was moderately low with relative abundance ranging from 2.518.0%. Female plants were more numerous than male plants in two of the four populations with male: female sex ratios ranging from 0.761.22. Individual plants were monitored monthly for flowering during the 1994 season. Though flowers were present throughout the year, their abundance varied widely. Flowering of male and female plants started to increase in January, with rapid increases in the production of flowers and fruits during April. Peak flowering and fruiting for female plants occurred in April and May respectively, while for male plants peak flowering occurred in May. A small, second peak flowering and fruiting appeared in October followed by a drop with almost no flowers produced during December Monoecious plants had a similar seasonal flowering pattern and were on average simultaneously bisexual for 59.6% of the flowering periods. Monoecious morphs also exhibited various degrees of sex expression from almost total maleness to total femaleness in a bimodal distribution pattern skewed towards maleness. This pattern indicates that C. californicus might be dimorphic with phase choices. Flower lifespan differed with gender. Staminate flowers lasted 4.5 d, whereas pistillate flowers lasted 13.2 d and fruits dehisced at 42.3 d. Pistillate flowers and fruits were significantly greater in biomass than staminate flowers. Male plants were significantly larger than female plants for crown diameter, while monoecious morphs were usually significantly larger than either female or male plants. Female plants exhibited higher floral biomass production and reproductive effort than male plants despite their smaller size. Monoecious plants produced more floral biomass than either female or male plants. Spatial segregation of male and female plants was also observed in one population.
41431656|Arundo donax L. (Poaceae) is an invasive grass that severely degrades riparian habitats. It grows in many-stemmed clumps and, in California, spreads vegetatively only. Currently, A donax is thought to invade new areas through fragments broken from established clumps during flood events. But the role of flooding in generating fragments is based on anecdotal evidence only and has not been adequately studied. I examined A. donax clump break-up and reproduction via fragmentation in the Tijuana River Valley, California. I found that: (1) the majority of the new recruits from fragments grew from rhizome fragments (85% of 54) rather than stem fragments; (2) during the record rainfall of 2004 2005, flood waters damaged the rootstock of only a small proportion of clumps in the flood zone (7%; n = 46 clumps), and relatively few recruits from fragments subsequently became established in the valley at large (0.048 recruits 100 m~ 2 ); and (3) during emergency channel maintenance along one tributary, bulldozers severely damaged the rootstock of all clumps growing on the channel bank (n = 3 clumps), and many recruits from fragments subsequently became established downstream of the bulldozer activity (2.92 recruits 100 m~ 2 ; 61 times the number in the valley at large). These results indicate that, in the Tijuana River Valley, flood events only rarely break up A. donax rootstock and wash rhizomes downstream, and bulldozers play an important, and overlooked, role in the break-up and dispersal of A. donax To reduce the spread of A. donax via rhizome fragments, regulatory agencies should require appropriate management practices when bulldozers are used in the presence of A. donax, and land managers should not use bulldozers when attempting to eradicate A. donax.
41425566|A new species, Mentzelia inyoensis H. J. Thomps. & Prigge from Inyo and Mono counties, California and Churchill and Esmeralda counties, Nevada is described and illustrated. Based on chromosome number and floral and seed morphology, we consider M. inyoensis to be closely related to a group of species that include M. candalariae, M. oreophila, M. leucophylla, and possibly M. pumila.
41425551|Hesperocallis is a monotypic genus endemic to western North America, currently classified in Hesperocallidaceae (sensu Angiosperm Phylogeny Group 1998, 2003) but typically placed in Liliaceae (sensu Cronquist 1988) in floristic treatments. On the basis of DNA sequence data, the phylogenetic placement of Hesperocallis is demonstrated to be with Agavaceae, rather than with Alliaceae, Hemerocallidaceae, or Liliaceae as thought by earlier authors based on morphology. Based on these results, we recommend sinking Hesperocallidaceae in Agavaceae within Asparagales. Hesperocallis es un gnero monotpico endmico del oeste de Amrica del Norte. Actualmente, Hesperocallis est clasificado dentro de Hesperocallidaceae (Angiosperm Phylogeny Group 1998, 2003); sin embargo, previas clasificaciones basadas en morfologa lo han situado al interior de Liliaceae (sensu Cronquist 1988). Con base en secuencias de ADN, Hesperocallis esta filogenticamente emparentado con la familia Agavaceae y no con Alliaceae, Hemerocallidaceae o Liliaceae como fue sugerido por previos autores. Como resultado, recomendamos considerar a Hesperocallidaceae como parte de Agavaceae dentro de las Asparagales.
41425059|As obvious as the desirability of collaboration among botanical gardens and herbaria may be, such collaboration is observed generally not to reach optimal levels. The scientific and research goals of herbaria as opposed to the public or broad-service orientation of gardens should not preclude active collaboration. Each needs the other for mutual advocacy. The data management challenges of the two are closely related, and we have reached a point where in effect all well curated natural history collections can be linked electronically into one large pool for sampling and data-retrieval purposes. This comes at a time when the value of living collections is on the rise for chemical and pharmacological research. Education is basic to all botanical activity, and joint programming is richer and is more efficient than the opposite, especially at a time when natural history education is interpretable as increasing in value to human society. If the need for humanity to relate more closely and respectfully to nature drives botany into increasing prominence, the impetus should not impact herbaria and botanical gardens independently, but rather as integrated representatives of botany, plant diversity, biodiversity, and nature.
41702407|Morphological and isoenzyme variation among populations of western azalea, Rhododendron occidentale (Torr. & A. Gray) A. Gray, were examined. Three regional parapatric groups were revealed: 1) the northern California outer North Coast Ranges; 2) the northern California and southern Oregon Klamath Ranges; and 3) the central California Sierra Nevada and southern California Peninsular Ranges. A highly variable but generally intermediate fourth group is restricted to ultrabasic substrates (serpentine) in the middle and inner North Coast Ranges of California. It is comprised of populations with recombined morphologies and alleles that were otherwise restricted to one or more of the three groups above. A revised intraspecific treatment is proposed, with the three regional groups above recognized as varieties. These are: R. occidentale (Torr. & A. Gray) A. Gray var. occidentale (outer North Coast Ranges), R. o. var. paludosum Jeps. (Klamath Ranges), and Rhododendron, occidentale var. californicum (Torr. & A. Gray) Hrusa comb, et stat. nov. (Sierra Nevada and Peninsular Ranges). Lectotypifications of Azalea occidentalis Torr. & A. Gray isotypes at PH and GH, Azalea californica Torr. & A. Gray in Durand, and Rhododendron sonomense Greene (NDG) are also provided.
41424627|A description and illustration are provided for Alloispermum insuetum, a new species from Colombia.
41425807|Human expansion into the Mojave Desert is a significant threat to rare desert plants. While immediate habitat loss is often the greatest concern, rare plants situated near areas where soil surfaces experience frequent disturbance may be indirectly impacted when fine particulate dust accumulates on leaf surfaces. Remaining populations of the federally listed Astragalus jaegerianus (Lane Mountain milkvetch) occur on land open to expanding military activities and on adjacent public land with increasing recreational use. This study was initiated to determine whether dust accumulation could decrease the vigor and fitness of A. jaegerianus through reduced growth. Beginning in early May 2004, plants located on Bureau of Land Management (BLM) land were dusted bimonthly at canopy-level dust concentrations ranging from 0 to 32 g/m, and physiology and growth were monitored until late June when plants senesced. The maximum experimental dust level simulates dust concentrations of Mojave Desert perennials neighboring military activities at a nearby army training center. Average shoot growth declined with increasing dust accumulation, but seasonal net photosynthesis increased. Further investigation of plants grown in a greenhouse supported similar trends. This pattern of greater net photosynthesis with increasing dust accumulation may be explained by higher leaf temperatures of dusted individuals. Ambient dust deposition measured in traps near field plants (May 2004-July 2004) ranged from 0.040.17 g/m/d, which was well below the lowest level of dust on experimental plants (3.95 g/m/d). With this low level of ambient deposition, we expect that A. jaegerianus plants in this population were not greatly affected by the dust they receive at the level of recreational use during the study.
41425586|The new combination Boechera kolboellii (Hornem.) Lve & Lve var. pendulocarpa (A. Nelson) N. Snow is made to accommodate this taxon at the rank of variety in that genus for the Southern Rocky Mountain Flora project.
41425350|Review of variation in morphological characters within and among natural populations and comparisons of greenhouse-grown plants, coupled with high pollen stainabilities in progeny from crosses of plants from different populations, led to the conclusion that Corethrogyne should be treated taxonomically as comprising a single species with two varieties. The revised taxonomy results in the new combination Corethrogyne filaginifolia var. californica.
41425501|This study assessed factors that affect reproductive success in Eriastrum densifolium subsp. sanctorum (Eds), a self-incompatible, endangered, perennial plant. We determined whether seed production was limited by resource allocation or pollinator activity and examined the influence of predation. The literature predicts that pollinator limitation in outcrossers would result if fruit set is less than 33%. We also used a regression analysis to examine the relationship between fruit set and resources or pollinator availability. Reproductive success of Eds appears to be both pollinator and resource-limited and was affected by prdation. Mean fertilization success was high for Study Site One and low for the others. However, Site One had the lowest percentage of fertile seeds and the highest percentage of abortion. We conclude that pollinator limitation occurred up to seven seeds per capsule and above that level resource limitation predominated. Eds on Sites One and Five had the highest percentage of fertility and prdation rates. Clearly, high prdation may influence Eds population growth. Hummingbirds and the Giant Flower Loving Fly were the most common pollinators.
41424207|The status of the rare Utah endemic, Gilia caespitosa A. Gray (Polemoniaceae) was evaluated with respect to morphological and chromosomal data. The possession of a concolorous corolla with included to barely exserted anthers, zonocolporate, reticulate pollen and a chromosome number of 2n = 16 are a combination of characters which suggest a relationship to G. subnuda A. Gray and allies within sect. Giliandra A. Gray. However, the possession of a perennial habit, multicipital caudex and graduated entire leaves characterize G. caespitosa as a distinct taxon.
41424551|The San Juan Mountains are located along the Continental Divide in southwestern Colorado. The only previous floristic study of this range was done in the Needle Mountains of the San Juan Range by Michener (1964). Three cirque basins, representative of the San Juan tundra, were analyzed floristically. A vascular flora of 197 species in 92 genera and 31 families is reported. Eight species are Colorado endemics. The phytogeographic distribution of the flora is primarily alpine and western North American.
41425065|While herbivory probably is a natural part of all terrestrial ecosystems, livestock herbivory is not a natural part of California's natural ecosystems. In California, mammalian herbivores can range in size from small rodents to large ungulates. However, the potential of threats is greater from ungulates, which include native taxa (e.g., tule, Roosevelt, and Rocky Mountain elk, mule deer, pronghorn antelope) and alien livestock (e.g., cattle, horses, burros, sheep, goats). Impacts of the native ungulates are not well studied. There are few, if any, types of plant communities in California that are unimpacted by livestock. Livestock herbivory is a threat to some rare plant taxa. Livestock impacts can include alterations in species composition of plant communities, in ecosystem function, and in ecosystem structure. Although the impacts can be severe, in terms of negative impacts on native plants, carefully managed livestock herbivory may not be the most destructive land use practice.
41424759|Two closely related taxa of the Aristida californica complex differ primarily in having either pubescent or glabrous culms. The pubescent form, A. californica, was described by Thurber in 1880. Eleven years later plants with glabrous culms were named A. californica var. glabrata by Vasey. Hitchcock elevated Vasey's variety to species rank in 1924, a disposition which has been accepted generally by subsequent botanists. To determine whether these taxa merit specific rank, collections from throughout the ranges of both were analyzed utilizing five spikelet characters. Measurements of length of both glumes, lemma, awn column, and free awns revealed a high degree of overlap; for the lemma, the overlap was complete. Chromosome counts (2n=22) are reported for the first time for collections of both taxa. Even though their geographical ranges are reasonably separate, and they tend to occur at different elevations, we conclude that it is more realistic to treat them as varieties of a single species. Dos taxa cercanas, pertenecientes al complejo de Aristida californica, difieren principalmente en la superficie del culmo; una es pubescente y la otra es glabra. La forma pubescente, A. californica, fu descrita por Thurber en 1880. Once aos despus, plantas con culmos glabros fueron llamadas A. californica var. glabrata por Vasey. La ltima taxon fue elevada al nivel de especie por Hitchcock en 1924. Para determinar la categoria ms correcta, hemos analizada colecciones de la distribucin entera para ambas taxa, con la base de cinco caracteres de la espiguilla. Las medidas de longitud de ambas glumas, la lemma, la columna de las aristas, y las aristas libres, revelaron un alto grado de traslapo; para la lemma est fu completo. Se reporta por primera vez el nmero cromosmico (2n= 22) para las ambas taxa. Aunque sus distribuciones geogrficas estn separadas razonablemente y, en general, ellas tienden a ocupar altitudes diferentes, es nuestra opinin que una mejor taxonoma resulta cuando stas taxa estn consideradas como dos variedades de una sola especie.
43289030|The Lomatium triternatum complex is widespread in the Columbia River Basin. Lomatium triternatum (Pursh) J. M. Coult. & Rose var. triternatum and L. triternatum (Pursh) J. M. Coult. & Rose var. anomalum (M. E. Jones ex J. M. Coult. & Rose) Mathias are sympatric throughout much of their range and are reported to have similar fruit but different leaves. Plants of the two varieties repeatedly occur within 5-30 m of each other at an unusual site in northwest Montana, USA. We collected data on leaf and fruit morphological characters and habitat associations at this site to help address whether the proper taxonomic rank for these two taxa should be revised. Terminal leaflet shape and specific leaf area differed between the two varieties with little or no overlap. Fruit mericarp length and width also differed between the two varieties. These patterns are not consistent with treating L triternatum var. triternatum and L. triternatum var. anomalum as sympatric, interbreeding, conspecific taxa. The two varieties of L. triternatum also occurred in different plant communities in spite of growing in close proximity: var. anomalum occurs with tall, leafy forbs, while var. triternatum is associated with xeric-adapted bunchgrasses and cushion-forming forbs. We conclude that the two varieties are better recognized as separate species.
41424873|Analysis of the taxonomic status of Sidalcea setosa and related taxa from the Klamath Mountains of southwest Oregon and northwest California resulted in the following conclusions: (1) Sidalcea setosa should be treated as a synonym of S. oregana var. spicata, (2) Sidalcea virgata should be treated as S. malvaeflora ssp. asprella var. virgata and, (3) the relationship between S. malvaeflora ssp. asprella and S. malvaeflora ssp. nana should be investigated further to determine whether ssp. nana might not be submerged into ssp. asprella.
41425388|Lasthenia Cass. sect. Ornduffia R. Chan is a new section in the goldfield genus Lasthenia (Compositae: Heliantheae sensu lato).
41424536|Mortality of Ceanothus greggii and Adenostoma fasciculatum seedlings during the first growing season after a burn in the southern California chaparral was 92 and 90%, respectively. Survival of these shrub seedlings was not affected by the presence of stump sprouts, which grew at a rate of 2 cm in height per week, or by herbaceous plants (65% cover). However, the presence of annuals reduced the growth of the shrub seedlings significantly. Watering increased seedling growth, but additional fertilizer had no significant effect. Stump sprouting and abundant seedling establishment after fire appear to be main factors that insure maintenance of the shrub species composition of the frequently fire-disturbed chaparral vegetation.
41425433|Fire is an important management tool that is used increasingly to restore natural composition, structure, and processes in semi-arid grasslands, woodlands, and forests of the southwestern U.S.I investigated the effects of fire on floral resources, fruit and seed set, and survivorship of Agave palmeri, an important food source of the endangered lesser long-nosed bat. Nectar production and sugar concentration, pollen and nectar standing crops, and fruit and seed production were measured in flowering plants with leaves damaged by fire and compared with unburned plants at three sites in two different human-ignited fires. In general, no significant differences were found in total nectar production, nectar sugar concentration, standing pollen crops, or fruit and seed set between burned and unburned plants. Standing nectar crops were slightly smaller than total nectar production amounts, but large amounts of nectar and pollen remained available at dawn in both burned and unburned plants. Initial mortality measured across all size classes at one site was only 3.3%. Although levels of burn damage relative to plant size were quite variable, plants with greater damage (61-100%) tended to be < 0.6 m in height and diameter. These results indicate that fire did not appreciably decrease food resources of the lesser long-nosed bat or the reproductive resources and survivorship of A. palmeri. The rocky, low fuel habitats preferred by A. palmen combined with certain morphological and physiological adaptations of the plant, such as a rosette shape and storage of accumulated carbohydrates in the center of the rosette, appear to protect the majority of stored resources within the plant's center during fire events.
41425176|Synoptical keys are sometimes preferred to artificial keys. In the synoptical keys provided here, the 207 genera of composites recognized in The Jepson Manual represent 2 of the 3 subfamilies and 13 of the 16 tribes used in a classification system differing only slightly from that proposed by Bremer in 1994. Of the 207 genera treated in The Jepson Manual, Heliantheae (incl. Helenieae), as circumscribed here, includes 78 (distributed among 17 subtribes) and Astereae and Lactuceae have 33 each. The other ten tribes are represented in The Jepson Manual by 1 to 14 genera each.
41425518|Spartina alterniflora Lois, (smooth cordgrass), native to salt marshes of the eastern US and Gulf coasts was introduced into San Francisco Bay for salt marsh restoration in the 1970s. It subsequently hybridized with the California native  S. foliosa Trin. Many of the S. alterniflora X S. foliosa hybrids are highly fit, with flowering periods that overlap the parental species, and profuse pollen and seed production. Hybrid pollen can sire seed on the native; seed which then disperses by floating on the currents of the Bay. The fittest hybrids are taller, have denser culms, and denser deeper roots than either parental species, and hybrids overgrow naturally open mud and the native salt marsh species. As primary interspecific crosses of the pure parental species are rare, we posit that the hybrid swarm spreads by backcrossing and interbreeding of fit hybrids rather than by primary crossing of pure parental species. The combination of reproductive and ecological superiority is leading inexorably to the conversion of native salt marsh to tall, dense swards of hybrid cordgrass, with deleterious effects upon native species, and on navigation, flood control and other human uses of the San Francisco estuary. Native S. foliosa is virtually absent in marshes where hybrids have grown longest in San Francisco Bay. A few hybrids have colonized north of the Golden Gate, in Marin Co. and San Pablo Bay. Roating seed has the potential to export hybrids and immediately threaten S. foliosa throughout its range in Northern California. We conclude that this suite of characters (reproductive and ecological vigor combined with tidally dispersed seed), will drive rampant spread of hybrids and ultimately could lead to the extirpation of S. foliosa in the San Francisco estuary.
41425655|Trichostema ruygtii is described from Napa County, California. It is closely related to T. lanceolatum Bentham but differs from that species most conspicuously in having much smaller flowers with notably shorter stamens. Both species occur in Napa County but occupy somewhat different habitats and have not been found growing together.
41424809|Penstemon fremontii var. glabrescens, a new variety from western Colorado, is described and illustrated. The var. glabrescens has glabrous or glabrate leaves and narrow deciduous basal leaves unlike the usually pubescent and mostly persistent basal leaves of var. fremontii. Habitats are likewise different and var. glabrescens is found only along the southern edge of the range of var. fremontii.
41426158|Post-fire serai changes in the structure and composition of Abies concolor-dominated vegetation were studied in the northern Sierra Nevada. The major change observed was a shift in dominance from montane chaparral shrubs to Abies concolor. Despite large changes in the dominance of individual species, most species encountered can occur at any point in the sere. Regeneration of shrub species was episodic, occurring only after fire or other disturbance. Abies concolor reproduction was continuous throughout the succession. However, tree density decreased with time as basal area increased to a maximum of 100 to 125 m/ha. All stages of the seral sequence were characterized by greater than 75 percent canopy coverage and a predominantly monolayered structure. On older sites, openings in the canopy caused by tree mortality allowed patchy understory development. Two species groups were detected in association analysis. One group, which contained A. concolor and three montane chaparral shrubs, characterized the early stages of succession. The second group, primarily herbaceous and sub-shrub root parasites, characterized mature A. concolor forests. Polar ordination also revealed two major clusters of stands characteristic of the montane chaparral and forest-dominated phases of succession.
41424365|The Monterey endemic area originated during late Wisconsin and Holocene times. Widespread sandy substrates afforded sites for the origination, by various modes, of new species following population movements into the region. Their sources included taxa a) from forest communities that earlier were in the lowlands under cooler, moister Pleistocene climates, b) from widespread species along the central coastal strip, and c) from interior and southern alliances that probably invaded the area during the Xerothermic. In addition, paleoendemics of wider Quaternary distribution found a haven here under the influence of the Monterey submarine canyon on land climate; it provided an effective local foggy shield from Xerothermic conditions. The paleoendemics include two cypresses and a Pinus radiata population with relatively small cones. By contrast, the P. radiata populations at Ao Nuevo and Cambria, farther removed from a more persistent foggy shield, apparently developed larger cones in response to Xerothermic aridity.
41424574|The potential for post-fire forest regeneration was studied in a 2 ha subalpine burn on Cathedral Peak in Yosemite National Park. The pre-fire forest was a pure stand of krummholz whitebark pine, Pinus albicaulis. Data on stand characteristics, seedling density, height, cluster size, and seedling micro-habitats were collected from five [0-9]  [0-9]68 m belt transects. Three additional transects, 2  61m or 2  76 m, located in the contiguous, unburned forest provided comparative data. Observations and circumstantial evidence suggest that Clark's Nutcracker, Nucifraga columbiana, a bird that buries pine seeds habitually, has initiated the early stages of P. albicaulis regeneration on the burn.
41425679|Intraspecific variation in blackbrush (Coleogyne ramosissima Torr.) seed imbibition was quantitatively investigated in the Mojave Desert. Blackbrush seeds were collected from six isolated mountain ranges, with each range sampled from one high-elevation (1550 m) and one low-elevation (1200 m) location for a total of 12 populations. Under laboratory experimental conditions, seed dry mass and initial seed moisture content did not differ significantly among the 12 populations. Highelevation source seeds imbibed significantly more water than low-elevation source seeds, and this was likely associated with habitat-specific selection. However, differences in full imbibition among seed collection sites at the identical elevation were not significant. Germination of field-collected seeds was similar, ranging from 87 to 93% among the 12 populations. Results of this study suggest that among six isolated mountain ranges in the Mojave Desert, blackbrush seed imbibition varies with elevation, but not with latitude.
41425608|Clarkia stellata Mosquin (Onagraceae) is an uncommon annual herb endemic to Plumas and Yuba Counties in northeastern California that has threatened populations due to noxious weeds, recreational and forest management activities, and development. The purpose of this study is clarify the species identification of populations of Clarkia stellata for management purposes, specifically, populations of C. stellata and C. rhomboidea that are difficult to differentiate in field. A total of 11 populations of C. stellata and related species were sampled for morphometric analyses and nine populations were sampled for genetic analysis using amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs). Clarkia stellata can be separated from C. rhomboidea based on all floral characteristics except claw width, claw length, and isthmus width. These species also can be differentiated based on the following vegetative characteristics: petiole length, leaf length, leaf width, and plant height. The sympatric Clarkia mildrediae is easily differentiated from C. stellata by every character except petiole length, leaf length, and plant height; C.mildrediae differs from C. rhomboidea for all characters except petal speckling, pollen color, leaf width, and leaf length. Populations that were initially difficult to categorize as either C. stellata or C. rhomboidea were most similar to C. stellata; however, we were not able to identify a suite of characters that would distinguish these populations as either C. stellata or C. rhomboidea. An analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) shows that although there was genetic variation among all populations (13.19%), the majority of variation is found within populations (86.81%). Genetic differentiation among all populations was low as calculated by Genetic Data Analysis (st, = 0.132) and Hickory (B = 0.0137); variance within populations was high (sigma-G = 32.645) and between populations was low (sigma-P = 4.96). This work is consistent with a number of studies within Clarkia section Myxocarpa that have identified taxonomic difficulties due to recent speciation, local adaptation, rapid chromosomal evolution, sympatry, and hybridization.
41425647|Tenderfoot Creek Experimental Forest (TCEF) is situated in the Little Belt Mountains of Montana, 120 km east of the Continental Divide. TCEF is composed of 3693 ha at elevations between 1840 and 2420 m and is dominated by lodgepole pine forest, which covers about 3366 ha, with interspersed floristically rich meadows. Our floristic inventory is based on collections and field observations made by Scott Mincemoyer during 19961999 and collections by Jennifer Birdsall during 2003-2005. We also include collections made by Earle Layser in 1992 and Jessica Fultz in 2002-2003. The vascular flora of TCEF consists of 312 species, representing 162 genera and 44 families. Twenty-seven exotic species occur in TCEF including Centaurea maculosa, Chrysanthemum leucanthemum, Cirsium arvense, and Tanacetum vulgare which are listed as noxious weeds in Montana. Phlox kelseyi var. missoulensis is found in the experimental forest and is listed as sensitive by the USDA Forest Service Northern Region.
41425354|Delphinium variegatum is subdivided into three subspecies distinguished by three floral characters. Delphinium v. variegatum is found in central and northern California, while D. v. kinkiense (an endangered taxon) and D. v. thornei are endemic to San Clemente Island off the coast of southern California. Broad variation is documented in most natural populations for all three floral characters. Our results indicate that the two metric characters, lateral sepal length and lower petal blade length, provide no clear distinction between the taxa. Sepal color is the least ambiguous for differentiating the subspecies, but is problematic in distinguishing between D. v. kinkiense and D. v. thornei. Sepal color exhibits a complex pattern of variation on San Clemente Island in which northern populations generally contain primarily light-flowered individuals, southern populations generally contain primarily dark-flowered individuals, and central populations may contain substantial numbers of both light- and dark-flowered individuals as well as intermediates. However, one southern population contains primarily light-flowered individuals, and almost half of the populations contain individuals having sepal colors considered to represent the two different subspecies. Further taxonomic study including additional characters is recommended to determine whether D. v. kinkiense and D. v. thornei should be considered distinct taxa.
41425654|A new species of club cholla (Grusonia robertsii) endemic to the Vizcaino Desert of Baja California Sur is described here for the first time. Distribution, associated vegetation, rarity, affinities to other related species, a botanical illustration, a key to the species in the genus Grusonia of the Lower California region, and a key for the generic reclassification of Opuntia sensu lato as recognized by Wiggins (1980) but currently treated as three different genera in the region are also presented. Se describe aqu por primera vez una especie nueva de casa rata (Grusonia robertsii) endmica del Desierto Vizcano, del estado de Baja California Sur. Se presentan la distribucin, vegetacin asociada, rareza, afinidad con otras especies en el gnero, una ilustracin del nuevo taxn, una clave a las especies en el gnero Grusonia de la pennsula de Baja California, y una clave para la reclasificacin genrica de Opuntia sensu lato de Wiggins (1980), que actualmente es tratada como tres gneros diferentes en esta regin, y que tambin se presentan aqu.
41426199|Rosa woodsii var. maderensis is described from the Sierra de la Madera in central Coahuila, Mexico. It is distinguished by its smaller, glabrous leaves, reduced ovary and stamen number and smaller hips with few fruits.
41424562|Lysichiton americanum Hultn & St. John (Araceae) is pollinated by Pelecomalius testaceum Mann. (Staphylinidae), a rove beetle, which utilizes the inflorescences as a mating site and food source. The fragrance produced by the inflorescences is the first cue in the attraction of the beetles. It elicits in the beetles a search behavior for the yellow color typical of the spathe.
41425818|I investigated the individual and joint effects of simulated herbivory and interspecific competition on survival of Coleogyne ramosissima Torr, (blackbrush) seedlings. Seeds of ramosissima and Bromus rubens L. (red brome grass) were collected at mid-elevations (1220 to 1770 m) of the Spring Mountains in southern Nevada. A pot trial experiment was conducted for six months (27 wk) in a controlled environmental greenhouse. This trial experiment, consisting of a 2 x 2 factorial design with simulated rodent herbivory and interspecific competition with B. rubens as the main effects, resulted in four treatments. Herbivory on ramosissima by heteromyid and non-heteromyid species of rodents was simulated by clipping the top 3 cm of young shoots. Significant interaction was detected between herbivory and competition for C. ramosissima seedling survival. When herbivory and competition were examined independently, both factors had significant adverse effects on ramosissima seedling survival, with the former having greater negative effect than the latter. Results of this study suggest that simulated rodent herbivory and B. rubens competition limited survival independently, and that a combination of herbivory and competition caused synergistic reductions in C. ramosissima seedling survival. Understanding the role of herbivory and plant competition in reducing survivorship of seedlings is crucial to the management and regeneration of ramosissima shrublands in the Mojave Desert.
41424590|Hastingsia atropurpurea Becking was discovered recently along the slopes of the Woodcock and Tennessee Mountains in southwestern Oregon. It is distinguished from Hastingsia bracteosa by a distinct, dark purple perianth, larger bulb size, larger and more robust scape, longer and wider, more glaucous leaves, shorter and more branched racemes, larger number of veins in the leaves, shorter floral and inflorescence bracts, and greater density of flowers in the raceme. It is sympatric with H. bracteosa only at three isolated localities, where there is no evidence of hybridization.
41426234|Ibervillea, a genus of tuberous perennial cucurbits of xeric environments, is closely related to Doyerea, Tumamoca, Halosicyos, and Ceratosanthes. These five New World genera, together with the African Corallocarpus, Dendrosicyos, Kedrostis, Seyrigia, and Trochomeriopsis, form a monophyletic lineage in the subtribe Dendrosicyinae (tribe Melothrieae), defined by the presence of tumescent seeds with reddish aril-like coverings. Ibervillea can be distinguished from the rest of the Dendrosicyinae by its bifid petal apices, which are infolded in bud. Ibervillea is currently considered to have nine species, of which two are new combinations: Dieterlea fusiformis becomes I. fusiformis, and Corallocarpus guatemalensis becomes I. guatemalensis (and is not Doyerea emetocathartica as suggested by previous authors). Ibervillea, un gnero de Cucurbitceas tuberosas, perennes de ambientes xricas, est cercana a Doyerea, Tumamoca, Halosicyos, y Ceratosanthes. Estes cinco gneros del Nuevo Mundo, juntos con los gneros Africanos Corallocarpus, Dendrosicyos, Kedrostis, Seyrigia, y Trochomeriopsis, forman un linea monofiltica en el subtribo Dendrosicyinae (tribo Melothrieae), definada por la presencia de semillas tumescentes con cubertura rojizas como alilos. Ibervillea se distingue del resto de los Dendrosicyinae por los apices bfidos de los ptalos que se envuelven en botn. Ibervillea hoy da se considera comprender nueve especies, de los quales dos son nuevos combinaciones: Dieterlea fusiformis llega a ser I. fusiformis, y Corallocarpus guatemalensis llega ser a I. guatemalensis (no Doyerea emetocathartica como sugeron previos autores).
41424875|Pollen, plant macrofossils, and radiocarbon dates on sediments from a small cienega on Mt. Graham in southeastern Arizona suggest that the occurrence of the present Engelmann spruce-subalpine fir forest on the mountaintop extends back to at least 8000 years ago. This is important biogeographically, since the forest type reaches its southernmost limit on Mt. Graham, and ecologically, as it is the primary habitat of the endangered Mt. Graham red squirrel (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus grahamensis).
41425450|Canopy macrolichens were sampled using the "litter pickup" technique in four forest stands in the mixed conifer forests of Sequoia/Kings Canyon National Park. The purpose was to provide a basis for assessing lichen abundance trends in permanent forest plots, and to compare differences in lichen communities between four forest types typical of the southern Sierra Nevada. Each stand was characterized by a different conifer: sugar pine (Pinus lambertiana Dougl.), white fir (Abies concolor Gord. & Glend.), giant Sequoia (Sequoiadendron giganteum (Lindl.) Buchh.) and Jeffrey pine (Pinus jeffreyi Grev. & Balf.). The standing crop of lichen litterfall was estimated at 33.6 kg/ha, 14.8 kg/ha, 6.9 kg/ha, and 7.6 kg/ha respectively. Seven macrolichens were present in the litterfall, in decreasing order of overall abundance: Letharia vulpina (L.) Hue, Hypogymnia imshaugii Krog, L. columbiana (Nutt.) J. W. Thomson, Bryoria fremontii (Tuck.) Brodo & D. Hawksw. and Melanelia exasperatula (Nyl.) Essl., M. subolivacea (Nyl.) Essl., and Lobaria (Schreber) Hoffm. sp. A single factor ANO VA indicated that L. vulpina was equally distributed throughout the four stands, while H. imshaugii and L. columbiana were not. H. imshaugii was the most abundant lichen in the White Fir stand, although L. vulpina closely approximated it there. L. vulpina was most abundant in the Sugar Pine, Giant Sequoia and Jeffrey Pine stands, and all other lichens were much less abundant. A complex of factors explains the differences in lichen abundance; stand density, stand structure, and tree species composition appear most important, although site environmental conditions cannot be ruled out due to the lack of replication and small sample size in this study. The White Fir and Sugar Pine stands had 23 times the tree density as the Giant Sequoia and Jeffrey Pine stands. Giant sequoia and incense cedar (Calocedrus decurrens (Torr.) Florin) shed bark and therefore do not have abundant epiphytes on branches and tree boles. White fir appears to have a generally positive effect on lichen abundance, except in extremely dense stands. The abundance of H. imshaugii and L. columbiana were highly correlated with abundance of sugar pine. Although species diversity is low, standing crop of lichen litterfall is high, and may exceed many other forests in North America.
41425810|The writing of revised treatments for selected California Malvaceae for the upcoming second edition of the Jepson Manual and the Flora of North America series (volume 6) has made several nomenclatural changes and explanations necessary. New combinations are made here for taxa in Sidalcea, including Sidalcea asprella subsp. nana, Sidalcea calycosa subsp. rhizomata, Sidalcea celata, and Sidalcea sparsifolia. Several taxa previously included within Sidalcea mahiflora have been removed from that species and re-interpreted, resulting in the resurrection and acceptance of the names Sidalcea asprella Greene and Sidalcea elegans Greene. Comments are presented here on the status of Hibiscus lasiocarpos and Lavatera vs. Malva in the California flora. At least one native species has been added to the flora, namely, Iliamna rivularis, though it may no longer occur in the state. Four species of Malvaceae have become naturalized or have been found as waifs in recent years and are added to the flora, namely, Anoda pentaschista, Lagunaria patersonia, Lavatera olbia, and Lavatera trimestris.
41425563|In 1995, the Manual of California Vegetation introduced a quantitatively based method for classifying and mapping vegetation in California. We used this method to develop a classification of vegetation types for Napa County, which we then used to attribute the polygons of a new vegetation map. The new map was produced by on-screen digitizing over USGS Digital Orthophoto Quarter Quads (DOQQ's) with the aid of ancillary digital maps. We identified the distribution of 56 landcover types, 48 dominated by natural vegetation, at the alliance or aggregated alliance level, in 28,456 polygons across 2042 km. The effective minimum mapping unit is below one hectare. The methods used, the mapping classification system developed, and the extents of landcover types mapped are presented. In a comparison with two previous digital vegetation maps for the area, the US Forest Service's CalVeg and the Gap Analysis Program's GAP maps, the MCV map had finer spatial and floristic resolution. The MCV map has 15 more vegetation types than CalVeg and 22 more vegetation types than GAP. The MCV map contains more riparian corridors and isolated wetlands, identifying 157 km of these types, compared to 7 km 2 for CalVeg and a non-spatial result for GAP.
41425079|Kincaid's lupine (Lupinus sulphureus ssp. kincaidii) is the primary host plant of the endangered Fender's blue butterfly (Icaricia icarioides fenderi). Both species are found in remnant upland prairies in the Willamette Valley of western Oregon, a habitat that is threatened by agriculture and urbanization. Enzyme electrophoresis was used to characterize the levels and distribution of genetic diversity in Kincaid's lupine. Eight populations of Kincaid's lupine exhibited high genetic identities (mean interpopulational I= 0.984) and low levels of genetic differentiation among populations (GST = 0.119). Although gene flow between the disjunct populations is limited at present, the species may have had a more continuous distribution prior to the agriculturalization of the past 150 years. At the Baskett Butte site, all plants considered to represent Kincaid's lupine had aleles that were otherwise restricted to spur lupine (L. arbustus). In addition, two clones composed of genetically identical individuals with fixed heterozygosity at four loci were identified at Baskett Butte. We suggest that hybridization between the two species is responsible for these findings.
41425128|A review of the history of vegetation classification in California reveals a serious underestimation of the diversity, extent, and functions of the state's wetlands and consequently, a misrepresentation of the perceived paucity of wetlands in California and the arid West. We review the classification systems of California's wetlands, beginning with early efforts in vegetation typing by the U. S. Forest Service, and illustrate that a detailed comprehensive methodology for the classification and description of wetlands and deepwater habitats is required before they can be protected and managed adequately.
41425511|The hypothesized natural interspecific hybrid origin of two cacti, Opuntia Xrooneyi and O. Xspinosibacca, has been investigated by a variety of non-molecular based techniques. Herein I explore DNA sequence and random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) banding pattern data as it relates to these two cases of putative hybridization. Traditional parsimony-based analyses of nuclear ribosomal and chloroplast DNA sequences do not resolve the phylogenetic position of these two species among closelyrelated taxa, but a median network analysis is presented that yields an approach to interpreting these relationships. Finally, an analysis of RAPD banding pattern data provides evidence of the additive genetic pattern expected for these two interspecific hybrids. These results support the inferences of non-molecular based studies.
41425797|The relationship between Streptanthus vernalis and Streptanthus barbiger (including the taxonomic synonym Mesoreanthus fallax) is examined. Morphological and allozyme comparisons show that the species are unrelated.
41424208|Chromosome numbers are reported for nineteen species of Linanthus, of which 15 are new counts. These establish further the base chromosome number for the genus as x = 9. Based on these counts, polyploidy appears to be extremely rare in annual species of Linanthus.
41425211|Arctostaphylos parryana Lemmon is here circumscribed as a species that includes both non-burl forming and burl-forming taxa. Principal components analysis based on 50 phenetic characters was used to support the recognition of two new subspecies. Arctostaphylos parryana subsp. tumescens Keeley, Boykin, & Massihi is morphologically similar to the nominate subspecies but is distinct in its geographical and ecological distribution, presence of a globose basal burl and erect growth form. Arctostaphylos parryana subsp. deserticum Keeley, Boykin, & Massihi also differs from the nominate subspecies in the presence of a basal burl, and differs from both other subspecies in its intensely glaucous, slightly narrower leaves and smaller fruits and desert chaparral habitat. These subspecies increase the range of A. parryana by > 150 km southeastward, and to the San Bernardino, San Jacinto, Santa Rosa, and San Ysidro mountain ranges and to Riverside and San Diego counties.
41425552|Cortaderia selloana (pampasgrass) and Cortaderia jubata (jubatagrass) are South American perennial grasses species that have escaped cultivation in California and become aggressive invasive species, particularly in coastal environments. Both are characterized by large mounded tussocks, long serrated leaves, and feathery, plume-like inflorescences. While C. jubata is currently restricted to coastal areas in central and northern California, invasive populations of C. selloana can be found both along the warmer coastline of southern California and within interior regions of the state. To better understand the potential geographic distribution of these species in California we examined seedling growth responses to varying environmental factors, including light, temperature, and moisture conditions typical to both coastal and inland California sites. Under growth chamber conditions, both species grew optimally at 20C. However, C. selloana seedlings had significantly greater height and leaf area compared to C. jubata at both 20 and 25C. While temperature did not significantly affect C. selloana survivorship, mortality of C. jubata seedlings was  90% at temperatures above 25C. Using shade cloth to control light intensity, C. selloana seedlings grew more vigorously than C. jubata under the higher light regimes, producing 234% more biomass at full sun. While the relative growth rate of C. selloana increased linearly with increasing light intensities, reaching a maximum of 21.4 mg g day at 1600 mol ms , C. jubata growth rate reached a maximum of 12.7 mg g- day- at 60% full sunlight (960 mol ms-) and did not increase at higher light intensity. Drought significantly reduced growth of both species, but C. selloana was more tolerant of moderate drought than C. jubata. The mean dry weight of C. selloana seedlings was twice that of C jubata when water was withheld for 27 days. When containers were maintained at varying ranges of soil moisture, C. selloana seedlings grew significantly taller and had higher leaf area and average dry weights than C. jubata at moderate drought conditions. The response to temperature, light, and moisture suggests C. selloana has greater potential invasiveness than C. jubata in both coastal and inland areas within the state, particularly in warmer regions. Cortaderia selloana growth was more vigorous then C. jubata under optimal conditions and also demonstrated greater drought tolerance and higher survivorship at increased temperatures and light intensity.
41702548|Dudleya crassifolia is described as new. It belongs to a complex of taxa within subgenus Hasseanthus that have a white (occasionally pale yellow) corolla with a conspicuous, "musky-sweet" odor. It differs from related species of this complex in having a thicker petiole, a leaf blade that is only slightly wider than the petiole, and conspicuous dried leaf bases persisting on the caudex. This species is very rare, currently known only from a single population of scattered individuals (total area of coverage less than one hectare), on sandstone bluffs at Colonet Mesa of north coastal Baja California, Mexico.
41425297|Deinandra bacigalupii is a new tarweed known from alkaline meadows in the vicinity of Livermore, Alameda County, California. The taxon has been treated as conspecific with Deinandra [Hemizonia] increscens, but represents a separate lineage that is morphologically, ecologically, and geographically distinct. Unlike other members of Deinandra, D. bacigalupii combines the following morphological characteristics: proximal primary-stem leaves mostly entire or irregularly lobed, distal cauline leaves mostly narrowly linear or lance-linear, ray florets mostly 8 per head, ray corolla limbs 2-4 mm long, anthers yellow, and disc pappi of highly irregular, erose scales < 1 mm long or reduced to crowns of minute bristles.
41424204|Interspecific hybridization experiments were completed for three of the five species in Melampodium section Zarabellia. Hybrids between the two diploid species, M. gracile (n = 9) and M. microcephalum (n = 9) showed normal bivalent pairing at metaphase I but were highly sterile. The observation of an occasional quadrivalent during diakinesis in these hybrids indicates that at least one reciprocal translocation exists between the genomes of these two diploid species. Artificial hybrids between M. paniculatum, a tetraploid species with n = 18, and the two diploid species were triploid and sterile. Analysis of pairing relationships in the triploid hybrids indicates that perhaps one, but not both, of the diploid species contributed a genome to tetraploid M. paniculatum.
41425030|Flower-insect interaction was studied in three Mexican asclepiad species, a member of the Matelea reticulata complex, Cynanchum foetidum and Funastrum arenarium. In the Matelea reticulata population, flies were the only visitors observed; and they were carrying pollinaria. Several young fruits were found in the population. Only honeybees were seen in the population of Cynanchum foetidum. These naturalized bees did not achieve pollinia transfer, but instead destroyed the flowers they visited. Funastrum arenarium was visited during the day by honeybees, which caused no destruction in this large-flowered species. A heavy perfume, intensifying towards the evening, indicated an adaptation for night-moth pollination. Small night-moths were observed carrying pollinaria. A comparatively high pollinia insertion rate and ample fruit set were observed. En el presente artculo se describen las interacciones entre flores e insectos en tres especies mexicanas de la familia Asclepiadaceae: un representante del complejo Matelea reticulata, Cynanchum foetidum y Funastrum arenarium. En la poblacin de M. reticulata, los nicos visitantes observados fueron moscas. Las mismas transportaron polinarios y la poblacin produjo frutos. La poblacin de foetidum fue visitada exclusivamente por abejas. Estas abejas naturalizadas no transfirieron polinios y destruyeron las flores que visitaron. Funastrum arenarium tambin fue visitada por abejas durante el da, pero no destruyeron las flores grandes de esta especie. Al llegar la noche, el perfume muy dulce de estas flores aument, indicando una adaptacin para la polinizacicin de mariposas nocturnas. Se observo una proporcin de insercin de polinios comparablamente alta, y las planta produjeron amplias frutas.
41424515|A new species, Erythronium elegans, is described from three sites in the northern Coast Range of Oregon. On morphological grounds the species is closely allied with E. montanum of the Olympic Mountains and northern Cascade Range, and with E. klamathense of the southern Cascades. Its variability in certain traits such as flower color, stamen width, and leaf mottling is suggestive of past hybridization with the geographically associated species, E. revolutum.
43288990|We conducted habitat, germination, and population genetic studies to inform management priorities for Phacelia cookei Constance & Heckard (Boraginaceae), a diminutive annual herb known from only four populations near Mt. Shasta in Siskiyou Co., California. Habitat surveys characterized soil, vegetation, and ground cover of extant populations and attempted to identify potentially suitable, but uncolonized, habitat. We were unable to distinguish any sites based on tests of soil characteristics. Nama densum Lemmon occurred at all sites where P. cookei was present. We identified several areas near existing populations that appeared to be suitable, but uncolonized, habitat. We tested the effects of various factorial combinations of after-ripening, scarification, stratification, and variable germination temperatures on breaking seed dormancy. Seed viability by tetrazolium tests ranged between 89% and 93%, but the highest germination from any treatment combination was 14% after adjusting for seed viability. We resolved 19 putative allozyme loci, two of which were polymorphic. Apparent genetic diversity was low both within and among the three sampled populations compared to similar endemic species, and populations were genetically similar. Management plans could consider attempting to expand existing populations by sowing seeds from existing populations into similar habitat.
41424667|Encelia densifolia Clark & Kyhos, from the isolated Picachos de Santa Clara in northern Baja California Sur, is morphologically distinctive, having short peduncles, broad obovate phyllaries, and remotely dentate leaves. Encelia densifolia Clark & Kyhos, de los aislados Picachos de Santa Clara en el norte de Baja California Sur, es distinto morfolgicamente, con pednculos cortos, filarios largos y obovados, y hojas remotamente dentadas.
41702539|The Carquinez Strait region is an area in the northeastern San Francisco Bay Area of California characterized by typical coastal lowland California vegetation dominated by oak woodland, grassland, and coastal scrub. From 1996 through 2010, an inventory of vascular plants was amassed. Of the 795 taxa found within the study area, 13 are ferns, 4 are gymnosperms, and 778 are angiosperms. Of eudicots and monocots, 41% (249) and 46% (79) respectively, are adventives introduced since European colonization. Despite the accessibility of the region and the proximity of institutional herbaria, relatively few collections were made in the study area before the beginning of this study.
41425031|Pollination is crucial to successful sexual reproduction in plants. I studied the pollination biology of the rare shrub Fremontodendron decumbens to obtain basic information on floral traits and behavior, determine the importance of floral visitors to seed production, assess pollen limitation of reproductive success, and identify and characterize the behavior of floral visitors. Flowers opened for about 3 days, and photographs of floral UV reflectance revealed a ring-like pattern that was interpreted as aiding in the efficiency of pollinator visits. Many flowers (25%) were pollinated prior to anther dehiscence, and essentially 100% were pollinated by the time anther dehiscence was completed. Insect visitation was required for pollination. Hand pollination did not increase fruit set but almost doubled seed number per fruit. Even hand-pollinated flowers contained many undeveloped ovules, indicating that pollen limitation was not the only factor limiting seed production. The anthophorid bee Tetralonia stretchii was the primary floral visitor. This species, together with the megachilid bee Callanthidium illustre, accounted for 98% of 1746 observed floral visits. The abundance and behavior of these bees indicated they were the major pollinators of F. decumbens flowers. Given the importance of these bees as pollinators, I concluded that preservation of this rare species must include preservation of its pollinating fauna of native solitary bees.
41425769|Over the past century in California, the invasive weed Salsola tragus (russianthistle) has become a widespread and troublesome pest plant. Early attempts at biological control of russianthistle achieved only partial success. Efforts to improve effectiveness of renewed biocontrol efforts revealed that two distinct, often sympatric, genetic entities comprise what has been called Salsola tragus: Salsola tragus and Salsola' 'type B', Efforts to identify and characterize 'type B' resulted in recognition of a third form, 'type We present a taxonomic and morphological examination of Salsola tragus, Salsola 'type B Salsola' type and Salsola paulsenii using discriminant analysis with DNA sequence genotypes as the taxonomic framework. Salsola tragus and 'type B' were morphologically distinct; 'type C' was morphologically intermediate between them and contained DNA sequence genotypes that were an additive mixture of haplotypes mostly exclusive to tetraploid S. tragus and others exclusive to diploid 'type B' 'Type C' is a fertile allohexaploid that originated via hybridization between S. tragus and' type B We provide a pre-existing name, Salsola australis, for 'type B', and propose Salsola ryanii sp. nov. for 'type Morphological variation, habitats, and dispersal behaviors among these Salsola taxa were examined in the herbarium and in the field. These are compared and discussed.
41424224|In central and south-central Baja California lichen communities change with increasing distance from the Pacific coast. Total lichen cover decreased from 15 percent on the coast to less than 0.5 percent at inland sites, and species richness decreased from 15-25 at coastal sites to three or fewer species inland. On Fouquieria diguetii lichen cover exceeded 60 percent at the coast and decreased to less than 1 percent inland. The presence of this rich lichen community is related to higher atmospheric moisture conditions along the coast. Two lichens absorbed water rapidly and lost water relatively slowly. In preliminary studies the coastal dominant species of this pair maintained a high rate of photosynthesis from 40 to 100 percent saturation whereas the inland dominant exhibited a narrower photosynthetic peak at 3040 percent saturation. It is inferred that the coastal species is adapted to moister conditions.
41425181|Atriplex erecticaulis is a newly described annual species from dry lowlands in south-central California. It is a hexaploid species apparently most closely related to A. cordulata Jepson. All collections have been from Tulare, Kern, and Kings countries in uncultivated areas. Although limited in geographic and ecological distribution it is often abundant in non-cultivated natural areas.
41424476|Several endemics occur on certain substrates in the Owyhee Region of Malheur County, Oregon where normal vegetation is excluded. It has been hypothesized that chemical features of the substrates account for the endemism and exclusion of normal vegetation. Chemical and mineralogical test results presented here lead to the conclusion that physical rather than chemical characteristics account for plant distribution.
41424669|Clitoria subgenus Neuwcarpum sect.Mexicana, sect. nov. is described including ser. nov.Mexicana, Tucumania, and Americana. Section Mexicana is contrasted with sect. Tanystyloba and sect. Neurocarpum.Series Mexicana includes C. humilus Rose, C. mexicana Link, C. monticola Brandegee, C. polystachya Benth., and C. triflora Wats. Series Tucumania includes C. cordobensis Burk. Series Americana includes C. fragrans Small and C. mariana L. A key to species of sect. Mexicana is provided. Se describe Clitoria subgnero Neuwcarpum seccin Mexicana, secc. nov., e incluye las ser. nov. Mexicana, Tucumania y Americana.La seccin Mexicana se contrasta con la seccin Tanystyloba y con la seccin Neuwcarpum.La serie Mexicana incluye, C. humilus Rose, C. mexicana Link, C. monticola Brandegee, C. polystachya Benth. y C. triflora Wats. La serie Tucumania incluye C. cordobensis Burk. La serie Americana incluye C. fragrans Small y C. mariana L. Hay una clave para identificar las especies en la seccin Mexicana.
41426247|Hyperaccumulation of nickel by higher plants (> 1000 g/g in tissue) is closely associated world-wide with serpentine soils. In North America, nine hyperaccumulators have been identified, some from analysis of herbarium samples. Streptanthus polygaloides, found earlier to be a hyperaccumulator on Sierra Nevada serpentines, merited further study. We report on field-collected samples and greenhouse cultures of this and other Streptanthus species. Fresh samples from eight serpentine sites all had more than 1000 g/g of nickel (2430-18600 g/g), clearly confirming the earlier results. Other serpentine Streptanthus spp., collected in the field or grown on serpentines in the greenhouse, had modest nickel levels and could be termed excluders. Greenhouse cultures of S. polygaloides on non-native serpentine soils also accumulated nickel in excess of 1000 g/g. Although field samples of S. barbiger, a Coast Range serpentine endemic, took up low amounts of nickel, this species grown on non-native serpentine soils accumulated nickel (69-1200 g/g). This unusual result is discussed as are the ecological and evolutionary implications of nickel accumulation and nickel exclusion in Streptanthus.
41425582|Most studies of alpine vegetation communities focus on the variation occurring across large scales, in which diverse environmental habitats are assessed across the landscape and detailed plant associations are described. However, community patterns occurring at more intricate scales are easily concealed by such a broad perspective. To complement large-scale studies, we assessed smaller-scale patterns occurring at the extremes of moisture and exposure gradients in an alpine environment. We studied the variation in plant community composition among and within seven ridges extending down two rocky metamoiphic peaks in Yosemite National Park. Species cover and environmental factors (proximity to a summit, elevation, aspect, slope, and substrate size) were sampled in 281 2 X 2-meter plots. Variation among ridges was primarily determined by differences in aspect. Within the ridges, although the physical environment in which we sampled was seemingly homogenous, ordinations identified two distinct vegetation types: (1) high diversity and high cover vegetation (HD), dominated by cushion plants and (2) low diversity and low cover vegetation (LD), dominated by plants in large clumps or small rosettes. In general, LD vegetation was found nearer to the summit and was highly variable in its component species, while HD vegetation was found farther along the ridgeline and was relatively uniform. This non-intuitive pattern in which cushion plants do not dominate the most exposed habitat occurred independent of elevation. Instead, our data suggest that along with changes in rock size and aspect, proximity to a summit is a meaningful factor governing alpine community structure. We discuss the water limited conditions imposed by the absence of smaller rock structure at the summit and how this may allow for only the sparse LD vegetation to persist there.
41425361|Plagiobothrys glomeratus A. Gray is a western Nevada endemic restricted to areas of altered andsite. It is morphologicaly close to P. hispidas A. Gray. Plagiobothrys hispidus is more widespread and shows much variation as to number and size of nutlets. Reports of P. glomeratus from California are based on misidentifications of P. hispidus. Illustrations of the nutlets and a distribution map of both species are included.
41426133|Composition, physiognomy, and development of floodplain vegetation are presented for three age zones of alluvial scrub on the San Gabriel River floodplain. The 19 species sampled are associated with the coastal sage scrub community, but the floodplain vegetation contains an unusually large proportion of arborescent, evergreen shrubs. Dominant species include Rhus laurina, R. integrifolia, Lepidospartum squamatum, Eriog onum fasciculatum, and Opuntia spp. The term "alluvial scrub" is suggested for this type of coastal sage scrub which is common on alluvial fans and floodplains along the San Gabriel and San Bernardino mountains. Mature stands are unusually diverse and appear to represent a climax vegetation that develops following severe, periodic flooding.
41424823|Berberis pimana is described as a new species from the Sierra Madre Occidental, Chihuahua, Mexico. The species appears related to members of Sect. Horridae but is distinguished from other members of this section by its yellow to reddish seeds, shorter and thinner spines, and lack of hypodermal leaf layer. A new combination, Berberis muelleri, is published for the species previously known as Mahonia muelleri. Berbers pimana se describe como nueva especie de la Sierra Madre Occidental, Chihuahua, Mxico. La especie parece emparentada con miembros de la Seccin Horridae pero se distingue de las especies de esta seccin por sus semillas amarillas o rojas, sus espinas ms cortas y ms delgadas, y por su ausencia de estrato hipodrmico en la hoja. Una nueva combinacin, Berbers muelleri, se propone para la especie anteriormente conocido como Mahonia muelleri.
41426279|Systematic methods involving the use of DNA data and genealogical analysis have been widely applied to higher-level phylogenetic questions in plants but much less commonly to discovering plant lineages corresponding to minimal-rank taxa (i.e., species, subspecies, and varieties) or to refining plant classification at the finest levels. Recent research in the Jepson Herbarium integrating extensive field sampling, biosystematic data, and molecular phylogenetics provides examples from the California flora for assessing the value of modern systematic approaches as a means of discovering fine-scale plant diversity. Results have sometimes led to taxonomic changes at the levels most important for biodiversity assessment and have allowed resolution of systematic questions important to establishing conservation strategies. Angiosperm groups newly resolved with molecular data include both morphologically distinctive and morphologically cryptic lineages that have been previously treated within more broadly circumscribed species, subspecies, or varieties. Taxonomic recognition of such newly resolved lineages is often necessary if taxonomy is to reflect monophyletic groups and fine-scale units of biodiversity. To promote discovery, recognition, and conservation of plant lineages, systematists are advised to sample widely within minimalrank taxa (including rare taxa) in the field and in herbaria, to consider previous taxonomies, to voucher all collections, to examine multiple lines of systematic evidence, and to publish taxonomic changes, including nomenclatural changes. Scientists involved in biodiversity management and conservation are advised to regard circumscriptions of all taxa as hypotheses of natural groups, to recognize that those hypotheses are subject to change, and to welcome taxonomic and nomenclatural changes that reflect an improved understanding of natural groups. Conservation biologists are urged to bear in mind that species or infraspecific taxa are not necessarily the minimal units of biodiversity. To conserve evolutionary lineages (and potential for future evolution), plant managers must seek to conserve representative populations of taxa from throughout their geographical and ecological distributions, must resist indiscriminate use of non-local germplasm in restoration efforts, and must consider cryptic biodiversity in regional conservation planning.
41425080|Croton californicus is reported to be a dioecious plant species. Monoecious morphs were observed in five populations in southern California. The prevalence of monoecious individuals was low with a total relative abundance of 2.2%. Female plants were more numerous than male plants in four of the five populations with a total male: female sex ratio of 0.90. Male plants were significantly larger than female plants for crown diameter and plant height while monoecious morphs did not differ significantly.
41425761|Relocation and further study of the local endemic Asclepias zacatecana McVaugh showed that it is conspecific with A. schaff neri A. Gray, a distinct species that previously had been synonymized with A. quinquedentata A. Gray. However, we consider a recently described species, A. rzedowskii W. D. Stevens, to be conspecific with A. quinquedentata. Asclepias schaffneri is lectotypified. El redescubrimiento y estudios consecuentes de Asclepias zacatecana McVaugh, una especie endmica de Zacatecas de distribucin restringida, muestra que es sinnimo de A. schaffneri A. Gray, la cual a su vez ha sido incluida como parte de A. quinquedentata A. Gray. Se discute porqu A. shaffneri es diferente de A. quinquedentata y es el nombre correcto para reconocer A. zacatecana. Sin embargo, se considera que otra especie recientemente descrita. A. rzedowskii W. D. Stevens es a su vez sinnimo de A. quinquedentata. Se lectotipifca A. schaffneri.
41425683|A new combination, Deinandra peninsularis (Moran) B. G. Baldwin, comb, nov., is proposed for D. greeneana subsp. peninsularis of Baja California, Mexico, a taxon that does not belong within D. greeneana, based on recent molecular and cytogenetic work. New chromosome counts for D. peninsularis and D. streetsii and previously reported counts for the other 20 species of Deinandra indicate that all perennial or facultatively perennial taxa of the genus share the modal, and probably basal, chromosome number of 2n = 12 n . A new chromosome count for another member of the tarweed tribe, Arnica mallotopus [= Mallotopus japonicus] (In  19n), in Arnicinae, strongly contrasts with an earlier (somatic) count for that species (2n = 18), which is often treated in a different genus based in part on the previously reported chromosome number.
41425340|Clay dunes are unusual geological features that occur near playas, lagoons, or flats that are sometimes wet but dry out annually. If the sediment in these ephemeral bodies of water contains clay, and if there are strong prevailing winds, flakes or granules of clayey material are transported during the dry season and are caught by edge vegetation. The clay particles moisten in the dew or rain and stick together, eventually creating dunes that support vegetation. Known locally as lomas, the clay dunes along the Gulf coast of Texas and Mexico reach their greatest stature near the mouth of the Rio Grande River, where this study was carried out. These dunes support ecologically unique vegetation assemblages. They sit, like islands, in hypersaline lagoons. Sharp environmental gradients separate halophytes from typical coastal thornscrub vegetation. Endangered animal species such as ocelots live in the thornscrub. Development pressures along the border threaten their existence, and the construction of artificial lomas has been proposed. In this paper I characterize four loma plant communities. The first community is found in the adjacent hypersaline Flats, and is limited to halophytes. The second community is found in lower but still elevated salinities at the Edge of the lomas. At low salinities atop the lomas are the dense Thornscrub community, and a Mixed Halophyte and Thornscrub community that is hypothesized to be the result of disturbance. Analysis of elevation and salinity at plots along transects through the lomas allows me to correlate individual plant species with salinity preferences and community membership. An interesting outcome is that while a number of species have fidelity to one community type, there are quite a few bridging species that are found in two community types. This information has important implications for the degree of precision required when attempting to restore or create the clay dune ecosystem.
41424971|Population Aggregation Analysis of isozyme variation patterns among North American populations of Puccinellia (Poaceae), independent of prior notions of species identity, results in the delimitation of several distinct species, each comprising one or more populations. One of the solitary populations resolved as a distinct isozyme species is the Shasta Co., California, population previously recognized as the sole known population of Puccinellia howellii J. Davis. Isozyme variation patterns thus provide independent confirming evidence that this species is distinct.
41425164|To examine the physiological adaptability of Encelia farinosa var. phenicodonta from southern Baja California, plants from Todos Santos, BCS were raised in central Arizona where winter-spring precipitation is greater than typically experienced by this variety. Plants were capable of high photosynthetic rates during the cool and wet spring months and showed substantial growth and reproductive output. Winter freezes caused severe stem dieback and even plant death. These findings suggest that freezing temperatures may influence the restricted and disjunct distribution of E. farinosa var.phenicodonta in the northern part of its range. The growth and reproduction results also imply that this variety may possess the physiological adaptability to thrive under potential climatic changes in southwestern North America. Para evaluar la adaptacin fisiolgica de Encelia farinosa var. phenicodonta del sur de Baja California, plantas de Todos Santos, BCS, fueron cultivadas en centro Arizona donde la precipitacin de invierno y primavera excede la experimentada normalmente por dicha variedad. Plantas de BCS fueron capaces de altas tasas de fotosntesis an durante los lluviosos y fros meses de primavera y adems mostaron un incremento substancial en crecimiento y reproduccin. Sin embargo, heladas de invierno causaron la muerte de tallos y en un caso severo toda la planta. Estos resultados sugieren que fras temperatures de invierno pueden influir la distribucin de E. farinosa var. phenicodonta en la parte norte de su presente rango de distribucin.Estos resultados tambin sugieren que esta variedad posiblemente posse la adaptabilidad fisiolgica para prosperar ante los posibles cambios climatolgicos en el suroeste de Norte Amrica.
41424821|Five species of Erythronium occur in the Sierra Nevada of California. A new species, E. pluriflorum, endemic to the south-central portion of the range, is described and illustrated. Erythronium pusaterii is elevated to the rank of species from E. grandiflorum and represents the most southern occurrence of the genus for western North America. Distribution and habitat preferences are discussed, and a key for Sierran Erythronium is also provided.
41424963|Trifolium bolanderi Gray. (Fabaceae) is endemic to the central Sierra Nevada of California. Commonly called Bolander's clover, it is a federally designated Category 2 taxon for which sufficient data to support a listing as threatened or endangered are lacking. It occurs within a narrow elevational band in mountain meadows of Mariposa, Madera, and Fresno Counties. To learn more about Bolander's clover, its site characteristics, and its restricted distribution we surveyed all known populations. Concurrently, we examined adjacent sites without the species. Sites with Bolander's clover were like those without it in aspect and degree of shade and in soil texture, bulk density, water, and organic matter. Normal hydrologie regimes occurred on 93% of the Bolander's clover sites; and some, still grazed by livestock, had large clover populations. No plant taxa had a positive interspecific association with Bolander's clover. One species, another clover, was negatively associated with it, suggesting intrageneric competition as a controlling influence. Detailed research on nutrient requirements and availability and soil water relationships may point to characteristics restricting Bolander's clover distribution.
41425845|Based upon a specimen first collected by S. N. Stephenson, a new grass species, Distichlis bajaensis H. L. Bell, is described. Stephenson hypothesized that this specimen was a hybrid between D. littoralis and D. spicata. Analyses of sequences of nuclear internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and chloroplast ndhF and trnL-trnF and an examination of gross morphology, blade and lemma micromorphology, and blade transectional anatomy demonstrate that this grass is a new species that may be sister to the remaining Distichlis. The blades of D. bajaensis are yellow-green; those of D. littoralis and D. spicata are blue-green. Distichlis bajaensis can be distinguished from D. littoralis by its exserted inflorescences with glumes present and from D. spicata by its short (0.8-1.5 cm) blades with a bend toward the adaxial side. At and distal to the bend, there are antrorse hairs along the medial vascular bundle. Distichlis bajaensis is known from a single large population growing along alkaline seeps in Arroyo Rosarito in Baja California, Mexico. Se describe como especie nueva de las gramneas a Distichlis bajaensis H.L. Bell, basada en un espcimen colectado por la primera vez por S. N. Stephenson. Stephenson postul que este espcimen era un hbrido de D. littoralis y D. spicata. Los anlisis de secuencias de ADN nuclear (ITS) y del cloroplasto (ndhF y trnL-trnF), as como los estudios de morfologa general, micromorfologa (lema y lmina) y anatoma (hoja), demuestran que esta gramnea es una especie nueva y que puede ser hermana a las especies restantes de Distichlis. Las hojas de D. bajanensis son amarillentos verdes pero estas de D. littoralis and D. spicata son azulinos verdes. Es posible diferenciar D. bajaensis de D. littoralis por las inflorescencias exsertas con glumas y de D. spicata por las hojas cortas (0.8-1.5 cm) con una curva hacia la cara abaxial. Hay pelos antrorsos a lo largo del nervio central antes del medio. Distichlis bajaensis se conoce de una sola poblacin grande que crece a lo largo de filtrars alcalinas en la localidad de Arroyo Rosarito, Baja California, Mxico.
41425364|Two late-Pleistocene Neotoma (wood rat) middens have been dated by four radiocarbon analyses at 10,000-10,200 and 17,470 radiocarbon years. Both deposits document by numerous macrofossils the abundance of Juniperus californica Carrire, but in the older deposit dominance is shared with Pinus quadrifolia Parl. Both deposits contain lesser quantities of the principal dominant shrub of the California chaparral, the chamise (Adenostoma fasciculatum Hook. & Arn.) together with the shrubby oak, Quercus turbinella E. Greene, and other chaparral genera at about 30N in the northern part of the Vizcaino desert. The existing desert vegetation at both sites is dominated by giant columnar xerophytes and several species of low, desert shrubs, no trace of which has been detected in either of the dated middens. Although abundance of macrofossils of woodland trees with lesser amounts of chaparral shrubs, in conjunction with absence of any species of desert shrub, document a modest displacement of desert vegetation at moderate elevations (550-594 m) in the northernmost Vizcaino desert, this evidence cannot be extrapolated to include the entire peninsula of Baja California. Very substantial biogeographic and ecologically pertinent physiographic evidence suggest a major desert barrier in the central part of the peninsula that also may explain the high degree of endemism in the desert flora. En Desierto Vizcaino, Baja California del Norte, Mexico, en 550-594 m. dos depositos de epoca tardo-Pleistocene con datos 10,000-10,200 y 17,470 anos, documentan con macrofosiles numerosos la presencia de Pinus quadrifolia y/o Juniperus californica, con arbustos de encinal (Quercus turbinella, Adenostoma fasciculatum). Sin embargo, arbustos de desierto moderno ausente en los dos depositos.
43288622|Notholithocarpus denstflorus (Hook. & Arn.) Manos, Cannon, & S. H. Oh (Fagaceae), common name tanoak, has a reputation as a "difficult to work with" hardwood species that has been viewed at different times in history as everything from a valuable resource for edible acorns to an annoying "weed" tree that interferes with commercial forest management. This paper explores the complex character of the species from a wood products point of view and discusses the possibility of developing it as a valuable forest-products resource. A comprehensive review of the forest-product literature reveals the many ways tanoak has been utilized. These uses have included fuel wood, lumber, railroad ties, flooring, and furniture, and as a source for leather-tanning chemicals. Early studies of the physical and mechanical properties of the wood show a similarity to many commercial hardwood species. However, tanoak has never gained the status of a preferred timber tree for forest products. This paper compiles what is known about the wood properties of tanoak and provides recommendations for successful lumber manufacturing. The risks and benefits of utilizing a species that is a known host for Phytophthora ramorum Werres, De Cock & Man in't Veld, the pathogen that causes sudden oak death, are also discussed from a forestmanagement point of view. As interest grows in developing local resources that require little transportation from source to end use, more opportunities for utilizing tanoak will likely emerge.
41425646|In southwestern Oregon and northern California, Jeffrey pine (Pinus jeffreyi) savannas and Darlingtonia fens are part of a mosaic of serpentine soil-related plant communities separated by distinct ecotones. I characterized and quantified the biological and physical aspects of these transition zones. Changes in vegetation were distinguished across communities and across three sites, each a different time since fire, and water discontinuities appeared important for preserving these uniquelyadapted systems, while vegetation undergoes postfire succession from fen to shrub to savanna after approximately 100 years since fire. While many factors play a role in determining the composition and location of community boundaries, the role of water appears to be the most critical factor determining the structure and species composition of the fen and shrub communities in southwestern Oregon.
41425578|Seed bank dynamics are a critical consideration for management of arid and semi-arid shrublands. In the threatened "coastal succulent scrub" vegetation (at Punta Banda, Baja California), we studied the seed bank's composition and size, as well as its dynamics as shown by field emergence and as inferred from literature reports on germination. We also analyzed sampling effort for both seeds and seedlings. The seed bank was sampled just prior to the rainy season, with 130 soil units of 7-cm diameter x 1-cm depth distributed systematically over 1.66 ha. The field samples were mixed together then laboratory samples (17 of 14 cm) were taken for manual extraction of seeds. We found 25 species, mostly of shortlived herbs. Some obvious species of the local flora were not encountered. Overall density was approximately 11,807 seeds m, but densities differed by more than 100-fold among species. Analysis of sampling effort suggested that only 8-12 laboratory samples were needed to approach estimated asymptotes of the density of seeds and the number of species. Seedling emergence was recorded during four months on 30 randomly distributed and caged plots of 361 cm. We found 22 species, mostly short-lived herbs. Most species were uncommon and the density per plot of all species was highly skewed. Modes per plot were 3-4 species and 129-256 seedlings. Analysis of sampling effort suggested approximately 15 plots were needed to approach estimated asymptotes of the density of seedlings and the number of species. Published information on seed germination was found for 75 species which have been reported from coastal succulent scrub in the Punta Banda area. Apparently, fire-related cues were required for germination in only 13% of these, while most species may require only moist winters. However, longterm dynamics of the seed bank, and its geographic variation, remain to be studied. La dinmica del banco de semillas es un tema crucial para el manejo de matorrales de zonas ridas y semi-ridas. Estudiamos el tamao y la composicin del banco de semilla de matorral costero suculento en Punta Banda, Baja California. Tambin observamos su dinmica, en la aparicin de plntulas en el campo e inferida de reportes en la literatura sobre la germinacin. Analizamos el efecto del esfuerzo de muestreo, ya que es el primer estudio del banco de semillas en matorral costero mediterrneo. El banco de semillas fue muestreado justo antes de la temporada de lluvias, con 130 unidades de 7 cm dia X 1 cm de profundidad y distribuidas sistemticamente sobre 1.66 ha. Las muestras de campo fueron mezcladas, luego se tomaron muestras de laboratorio (17 de 14 cm) para extraer las semillas manualmente. Encontramos 25 especies, principalmente de hierbas de corta vida; no se encontraron varias especies conspicuas de la vegetacin local. La densidad general fue aproximadamente 11,807 semillas m , pero entre las especies las densidades variaron por ms de un factor de 100. Anlisis del esfuerzo de muestreo sugiri que el nmero de especies y la densidad total de semillas fueron adecuadamente estimados con 8-12 muestras de laboratorio. La aparicin de plntulas fue registrada durante cuatro meses en 30 cuadrantes enjaulados (de 361 cm) distribuidos aleatoriamente. Encontramos 22 especies, principalmente de hierbas de corta vida. En su mayora, las especies fueron escasas y la densidad total por cuadrante fue altamente sesgada; se presentaron modas de 3-4 especies y 129-256 plntulas. El anlisis del esfuerzo de muestreo sugiri un muestreo adecuado con 15 o ms cuadrantes. Se encontr informacin publicada sobre la germinacin de 75 especies que se encuentran en el matorral costero suculento del rea de Punta Banda. Disparadores de la germinacin relacionados con incendios fueron reportados, como obligatorios, en slo el 13% de las especies. Aparentamente la mayora de las especies germinan con cualquier invierno hmedo. No obstante, la dinmica a largo plazo de las especies y la biologa de sus semillas, quedan por investigarse.
41424960|Postfire regeneration of Adenostoma and Salvia dominated chaparral was studied in adjacent sites burned by wildfire once, twice, or three times in the past six years, at intervals of 1, 4, and 6 yr prior to the study. The following combinations of burning were: 1 yr ago (previous burn was > 20 yr); 1 and 6 yr ago; 1, 4, and 6 yr ago; 4 and 6 yr ago; and 6 yr ago. Marked changes in community composition occurred as fire frequency increased. On the site that burned only once in the past several decades the dominant shrubs Adenostoma fasciculatum and Salvia mellifera established abundant seedling populations in the first growing season after fire. Seedling establishment the first season after fire was 62% (S. mellifera) to 83% (A. fasciculatum) less on the site that had also burned 6 yr previously and zero on the site that had burned 1, 4, and 6 yr ago. The suffrutescent (chamaephyte) Lotus scoparius, likewise showed the lowest seedling establishment on the site burned the most frequently, however, it did best on the site burned 1 and 6 yr ago. Although Adenostoma fasciculatum resprouts after fire, there was some mortality after each fire and thus the number of resprouting shrubs diminished as fire frequency increased. Postfire annual species, in general, were abundant on all sites burned 1 yr ago, regardless of the prior fire frequency. Non-native species such as Brassica nigra, Bromus spp., and Schismus barbatus were poorly represented on the 1 yr old burn that had not been repeatedly burned in recent years. In general, as fire frequency increased, these non-native weeds increased dramatically. It is suggested that high fire frequency has played an important role in the establishment of these weeds and conversion from shrub-dominated to herbaceousdominated ecosystems in the California landscape.
41424589|Morphological and phytochemical studies support the segregation of the zygomorphic-flowered species previously included in Langloisia as a separate genus, Loeseliastrum (Brand) Timbrook. The two genera differ in aspects of their leaf bristles, corolla, stamens, pollen, trichomes, and capsules, and by the type of flavonoids present. Similarities of leaves, calyces, and growth habit are thought to be due to convergence in strongly selective desert habitats. Two species are recognized in Loeseliastrum, Lo. matthewsii (= Langloisia matthewsii) and Lo. schottii (= Langloisia schottii), and one species with two subspecies in Langloisia, La. setosissima subsp. setosissima and La. s. subsp. punctata. Chromosome counts for all taxa are 2n = 14. A key and descriptions of the taxa are included.
41424654|Three new taxa of Dudleya from California are described: Dudleya cymosa subsp. agourensis, D. cymosa subsp. crebrifolia, and D. abramsii subsp. affinis. Three new combinations of Dudleya also are proposed from California: D. cymosa subsp. pumila, D. cymosa subsp. paniculata, and D. abramsii subsp. calcicola. Dudleya gigantea is reduced to a synonym of D. cymosa subsp. cymosa and D. minor is reduced to a synonym of D. lanceolata. A neotype is designated for Echeveria cymosa Lem. (= D. cymosa subsp. cymosa).
41425329|Hedeoma matomianum grows at 1400 m on Cerro Matom, just south of the Sierra San Pedro Mrtir. Two other species also grow in Baja California, both endemic: H. tenuiflorum Brandegee in the Sierra San Borja and H. martirense Moran in the high Sierra San Pedro Mrtir. Hedeoma matomianum differs from both in its bushier habit and more compact inflorescence and in its shorter corolla (9-12 mm vs. 17-18 and 19-25 mm). Wiggins' Flora of Baja California (1980) lists only the Hedeoma of the Sierra San Borja; but it is misnamed as H. nanum Briq. subsp. californicum W. S. Stewart, which is not known in Baja California. That plant resembles H. matomianum in habit but differs in its less compact inflorescence and its smaller calyx and its shorter corolla (8-9 vs. 9-12 mm). Hedeoma matomianum crece a 1400 m en el Cerro Matom, inmediatamente al sur de la Sierra de San Pedro Mrtir. Otras dos especies, ambas endmicas, crecen tambin en Baja California: H. tenuiflorum Brandegee en la Sierra de San Borja y H martirense Moran en la Sierra de San Pedro Mrtir. Hedeoma matomianum difiere de ambas en su hbito ms arbustivo, su inflorescencia ms compacta, y su corola ms corta (9-12 mm vs. 17-18 y 19-25 mm). La Flora de Baja California de Wiggins (1980) lista slo la especie de Hedeoma de la Sierra de San Borja, pero la nombra incorrectamente como H. nanum Briq. subsp. californicum W. S. Stewart, la cual no es conocida en Baja California. Esta ltima planta (H. nanum subsp. californicum) se parece a H. matomianum en hbito, pero difiere en su inflorescencia menos compacta, cliz ms pequeo, y corola ms corta (8-9 mm vs. 9-12 mm).
41425253|Vegetation was quantified for clearcuts, age 4-32 yr, of Abies magnified Andr. Murray old-growth forests along the west face of the central Sierra Nevada. TWINSPAN analysis of 113 sites  87 common taxa generated six ecofloristic units mainly related to each other on a time-since-harvest basis, but also exhibiting correlations with slope, elevation, latitude, soil depth, harvest area, and ratio of edge-to-area. Nearly half the taxa showed non-random distributions among the TWINSPAN units, but only a minority of those could be related to time since harvest. The herbs Gayophytum diffusion Torrey & A. Gray, Phacelia hydrophylloides A. Gray, and Sidalcea glaucescens E. Greene were most significantly associated with pioneer sites age 4-10 yr since harvest, whereas the shrubs Ceanothus cordu-latus Kellogg and Ribes roezlii Regel and the herb Viola pinetorum E. Greene were most significantly associated with later serai sites 16-32 yr since harvest. CCA ordination diagrams arranged the 113 sites along a continuum, rather than breaking them up into units, and this approach also revealed a strong relationship between site vegetation and time since harvest. The general path of early succession did not show dramatic floristic shifts nor was there any significant change in species richness over time. The first 32 yr of secondary succession probably represents only one-seventh the time necessary to attain old-growth status.
41425302|We examined northern coastal scrub vegetation in relation to canopy gap formation, zonation and topographic relief on coastal escarpments (bluffs) in San Mateo County, CA. Vegetation was sampled in quadrats, along line transects and within gaps in the canopy of the dominant shrub Baccharis pilularis DC. (Baccharis gaps) on three topographically distinct coastal bluffs. Baccharis gaps were also sampled for area, light penetration, distance from the bluff edge, and residual branch height. Thirty-seven species were encountered in quadrats at the three sampling sites. Baccharis pilularis and Eriophyllwn staechadifolium Lagasca were the dominant species, together comprising 67% cover at the three sites. Canopy gaps averaged 0.96 m 2 in area and occupied 58% of the area sampled. Species composition and relative abundance was strongly influenced by percent canopy gap. Cover of Scrophularia californica Cham. & Schldl. was found to increase with increasing percent canopy gap. Thirty-eight percent of species occurred exclusively in quadrats dominated by canopy gaps. Species richness showed a positive relationship to percent canopy gap and to Baccharis gaps with greater light penetration. Line transects indicated distinct species and gap zonation on the three bluff sites sampled. Differences in species composition, species relative abundance and vegetation height were also found among the three coastal bluff sites. At the spatial scale of an individual bluff, our results suggest that canopy gaps and zonation are important in maintaining the diversity of northern coastal scrub in San Mateo County. Variation in topographic relief among neighboring bluff sites also appears to play a role in maintaining species diversity at larger spatial scales.
41425854|Previous investigations into the morphology of Pyrrliatriformis sensu lato in northern Idaho and adjacent Washington have revealed two distinct morphologies that correspond to their geographical ranges. These same populations and individuals have been analyzed using AFLP data. Over 400 loci were identified among all individuals using two sets of AFLP adaptors. The data are in agreement with the morphological data and separate the populations from the Snake River Canyon/Camas Prairie from those of the Palouse grasslands. Data clustering methodologies using both presence/absence data for all individuals and allele frequencies for each population produced similar results. We suggest the name P. scaberula be resurrected to encompass the populations from the Snake River Canyon and Camas Prairie.
41425760|Dissanthelium californicum (Nutt.) Benth. (Poaceae) is an annual grass known only from Santa Catalina and San Clemente Islands, off the coast of Southern California, USA, and Guadalupe Island, off the coast of Baja California, Mexico. It had not been recorded since Blanche Trask collected it in 1903 on San Clemente Island, and was therefore considered to be extinct, possibly as a result of overgrazing by introduced goats on these islands. During monitoring by the Catalina Island Conservancy from March through July 2005, D. californicum. was discovered growing in seven diverse and widely spread locations on Santa Catalina Island. The rediscovery may be a result of the removal of feral goats and pigs from the island, record-breaking rainfall, and increased exploration of remote areas. A revised description of the species and a summary of its habitat preferences are provided. Thorough monitoring and surveying of known and potential locations will be necessary to better determine the conservation status of the species. Dissanthelium californicum (Nutt.) Benth. (Poaceae) es una gramnea anual conocida slo de las islas Santa Catalina y San Clemente, que se encuentran cerca de la costa del Sur de California, USA y de la isla Guadalupe, localizada cerca de la costa de Baja California, Mxico. Esta especie no ha sido reportada desde que Blanche Trask la colect en 1903 en la isla San Clemente, y por lo tanto ha sido considerada como extinta, posiblemente como resultado del sobre pastoreo de cabras introducidas a las islas. Durante el monitoreo realizado por la organizacin Catalina Island Conservancy en los meses de marzo a julio del 2005, D. californicum fue redescubierto creciendo en siete diversas y muy distantes localidades de la isla Santa Catalina. El redescubrimiento podra haberse dado debido a la eliminacin de las cabras y cerdos de la isla, a la lluvia sin precedentes y el aumento de exploracin en reas remotas. Una descripcin revisada de la especie y un resumen de su preferencia en habitat son proporcionadas. Riguroso monitoreo e inspeccin de localidades conocidas y potenciales sern necesarios para una mejor determinacin del estado de conservacin de la especie.
41425499|Vernal pools are temporary wetlands typical of regions with mediterranean climates. Within a region, variation in substrate and topography of vernal pools may expose plants to varied soil moisture and salinity conditions. We examined the effects of soil moisture and salinity on germination, growth, flowering, and mortality of a California endemic vernal pool annual, Lasthenia conjugens E. Greene (Asteraceae). We collected seeds from three source populations and subjected them to two moisture treatments and three salinity treatments under greenhouse conditions. We detected significant differences in germination, growth, floral initiation, and mortality among source populations, moisture treatments, and salinity treatments. We also found evidence of significant population by treatment interactions for germination and floral initiation in the salinity experiment, suggesting that source population affects viability under varying salinities. Increased salinity generally had detrimental effects on germination and growth rates of seedlings, but populations varied in their responses to the salinity treatments. We conclude that 1) because source populations varied in their response to soil moisture and salinity, seed source for population reintroduction should be carefully selected, and 2) moisture and salinity treatments produced strong effects on L. conjugens seeds and seedlings. Thus, year-to-year variation in rainfall, soil salinity, and inundation of individual pools may significantly affect the performance of L. conjugens individuals and populations.
41702388|The following nomenclatural combinations in Phacelia (Boraginaceae) are established: P. campanularia A. Gray var. vasiformis (G. W. Gillett) Walden & R. Patterson, stat. nov.; P. imbricata Greene var. bernardina (Greene) Walden & R. Patterson, stat. nov.; P. imbricata Greene var. patula (Greene) Walden & R. Patterson, stat. nov.; and P. nemoralis Greene var. oregonensis (Heckard) Walden & R. Patterson, stat. nov. Typification and clarification of nomenclature is provided for Phacelia floribunda Greene and Phacelia phyllomanica A. Gray. Synonymies are provided for all names.
41425823|Phacelia cicutaria Greene var. hubbyi (J. F. Macbr.) J. T. Howell warrants elevation from varietal to species status based on morphological evidence. It is distinguished morphologically from P. cicutaria var. cicutaria and P. cicutaria var. hispida (A. Gray) J. T. Howell by its more robust habit, more densely congested inflorescences, lack of mottled markings on the corolla, longer stamens and style, thick shaggy hairs on the stems and leaves, and calyx lobes that closely invest the fruit.
41426154|Lomatium oreganum and L. greenmanii, two rare species endemic to the higher Wallowa and Blue Mountains of Oregon, are morphologically and ecologically separate and behave as distinct taxa. The taxonomic affinities of these plants are not well known, but we speculate that they include ties to several Lomatium species of the Basin and Range province of Utah, Nevada, and eastern California.
41425255|Shrubs in the genus Salvia are often dominants in Coastal Sage Scrub communities throughout southern and central California. Salvia mellifera E. Greene (black sage) tends to be more abundant near the coast with a more northerly distribution, whereas S. apiana Jepson (white sage) tends to occur farther inland and ranges much farther south. In areas of local sympatry in southern California, S. apiana is more frequently observed on south-facing slopes. It has been suggested to be better able to withstand drought conditions than S. mellifera, because 5. apiana occurs in what appear to be more xeric sites. In addition, in areas of sympatry, somewhat fertile, morphologically intermediate hybrids form. We tested the hypothesis that S. apiana is better able to withstand drought than S. mellifera, and that hybrids are physiologically intermediate, by measuring predawn and midday water potential every month over 15 months at a site in the Santa Ana Mountains. Salvia apiana had statistically higher water potentials than S. mellifera during summer drought, and the hybrid exhibited intermediate values. The ability of S. apiana to maintain water potentials of 3 to 4 MPa greater than S. mellifera supports the hypothesis that S. apiana can better avoid summer drought. This difference in water relations may account in part for the distributional patterns of these two species.
41424255|Five plant communities are recognized from the western Pursima Hills, Santa Barbara Co., California: closed-cone pine forest, douglas-fir forest, oak grassland, chaparral, and coastal sage scrub. The distribution of each community with respect to substrate type, fire history, and exposure was examined by mapping a 9.3 km 2 area. Bedrock geology and exposure were the principal factors affecting the distribution of the closed-cone pine forest and douglas-fir forest. Both communities were found primarily on north slopes of diatomaceous shale. To a lesser extent the other communities were most common on particular aspects and substrates: oak grassland grew mainly on gentle slopes, chaparral was predominant on south slopes of sandstone, and coastal sage scrub occurred on argillaceous substrates. The one recorded fire within the area had no recognizable affect on the sharp ecotones between communities.
41425326|Trifolium beckwithii Brewer ex. S. Wats, is widespread in the Sierra Nevada and northern Rocky Mountains but five disjunct populations have existed for at least a century in a considerably different habitat in eastern South Dakota. Genetic divergence of these populations was expected. RAPD profiles were compared between South Dakota and two montane populations. Unexpectedly, measures of genetic similarity between South Dakota and northern California populations were twice as great as those between South Dakota and southern Idaho populations. These data can be interpreted as an indication that T. beckwithii has been introduced relatively recently into South Dakota from a population genetically similar to the one sampled from northern California.
41425867|Lomatium tamanitchii (Apiaceae), is a newly discovered substrate-specific, narrow endemic species. The species grows on clay soils in grassland swales and gentle slopes in the Columbia Hills of eastern Klickitat County in south-central Washington State. A small disjunct occurrence has also been recently recognized in Union County, Oregon. The species is most typically distinguished by a multibranched caudex surmounting a large, thick, blunt-tipped taproot. It is identified by its sparsely to densely short hairy leaves with broadly winged petioles, and its narrowly elliptical dorso-ventrally compressed fruits that have short hairs and distinct narrow raised ventral ribs. Lomatium tamanitchii is clearly distinct from all other species in the genus as based primarily upon gaps in characters of fruit morphology and vestiture. Populations occur in dense near-monocultures strictly confined to shrinkswell soils derived from devitrified silicic volcanic ash on massive landslide deposits. The known range of L. tamanitchii is restricted to a small area in eastern Klickitat Co., Washington and several hundred plants in a newly-discovered disjunt population approximately 180km distant in Union Co., Oregon. This limited distribution raises conservation concerns. Lomatium tamanitchii is compared with morphologically similar taxa growing in nearby areas of the Columbia Basin.
41425413|Maps and text describe current distributions of 19 conifer tree species in southern California. Distributions are related to climate, geology, terrain, and other aspects of the environment. Corrections to earlier published descriptions and maps are highlighted. Although species are discussed as components of six vegetation types (closed-cone conifer forest, foothill woodland, mixed evergreen forest, pinyon-juniper woodland, mixed-conifer forest, and subalpine forest), the distribution maps are for species, not vegetation. Species limits correspond to a density as low as 1 tree of the species of concern per 10 ha. Some changes in distribution over the past century, primarily due to fire, can best be interpreted and understood when a species is placed correctly in one of three models: shifting populations, standing populations, and patch mosaic populations.
41424300|Malephora crocea, native to Cape Province, South Africa, has been naturalized in southern California at least since 1946, but is not mentioned in California floras. Misidentified specimens have served as the basis for incorrect reports of other species. We document the historical occurrence and current range of M. crocea in California and provide a morphological description, illustration, and comparison with other ice plants.
41424539|Mimulus norrisii, a new cliff-dwelling species from the Sierra Nevada foothills primarily in Sequoia National Park, Tulare County, California, is described and illustrated. The new species is ecologically similar and morphologically closest to M. dudleyi in sect. Paradanthus but differs in its moister habitat requirements, leaves with attenuate bases and less serrate margins, and in particular the smaller calyces that develop conspicuous enlarged and rounded ribs.
41426365|We investigated patterns of infraspecific variation among populations of Pedicularis densiflora, including populations formerly recognized as P. densiflora subsp. aurantiaca. Several statistical analyses (UPGMA, ANOVA, and PCA) were conducted on floral traits measured in the field. All three statistical analyses indicated consistent differences in floral morphology among populations. These differences were confirmed by a review of over 1000 herbarium specimens. Two series of populations were separated, and two species recognized, Pedicularis aurantiaca and P. densiflora. Pedicularis aurantiaca had large calyces with floral tubes included at anthesis, reduced lower labia, and enlarged galea openings. Pedicularis densiflora had short calyces with fully exserted floral tubes, enlarged lower labia, and smaller galea openings. Taxonomy, phenology, and floral differences are discussed in the context of previously published data on pollinator visitation.
41424205|Fifty-eight percent of the herb species recorded on recently burned sites of chaparral in southern California are to be found in the understories of southern coastal sage scrub stands that have not burned for seven years or more. Because coastal sage scrub is found near chaparral at lower elevations throughout southern California, it may serve as an important seed source for the herbland phase of chaparral succession after fire. The dispersal of seeds from sage scrub to chaparral lands each year provides an alternative to the hypothesis that post-fire herbs arise from seeds that have remained viable in situ for the 4090 years or more that may intervene between fires. At the same time, it would appear that mechanisms such as increased shading, or possibly allelopathy, act to inhibit the germination of herb seeds under mature chaparral canopy. The large degree of similarity between the understory flora of mature coastal sage scrub and the post-fire flora of chaparral challenges the notion that the latter are mostly "pyrophyte endemics". The possibility of a partial dependence of chaparral succession on dispersal from coastal sage scrub suggests a new argument for the conservation of coastal sage scrub areas, remaining examples of which are currently endangered by development pressures.
41424189|A population of unusually short Orthocarpus faucibarbatus ssp. albidus plants in a closely grazed sheep pasture on the coast of northern California was studied. Branches were gently ascending and basal instead of erect from the upper stem. Seeds from this population were grown inland where wind buffeting, salt spray, cooler temperatures, close grazing, different host plants, and limiting soil were reduced or absent. The resulting plants closely resembled the parent population in both branching form and height. Shortness in this ecotype was due mostly to shorter rather than fewer internodes. Analysis of mean internode lengths in several coastal and inland populations showed significant differences between the grazing ecotype and all ungrazed populations, and between coastal and inland populations. Because this species is shade intolerant and an obligate outcrosser, close sheep grazing is beneficial in reducing the height of associated plants, allowing greater exposure to sunlight and insect pollinators. The harsh, spiny, rosette leaves of Eryngium armatum afford enough protection for the lower flowers and seed capsules of this herbaceous annual to prevent its demise through overgrazing.
41425473|Throughout its native range, the California poppy, Eschscholzia californica, exhibits substantial morphological and life-history variation, including variation in seed dormancy and ability to perennate. Populations from xeric southern California habitats have high seed dormancy over a range of habitats that span from coast to desert and across vegetation types of varying fire frequency. Understanding variation in the cues that break dormancy in this species is especially important to managing natural populations with prescribed fire, and in production and use of local ecotypes for restoration, erosion control, and ecological landscaping. We explored the influence of sequential treatments of low temperature and components of fire (heat, dry smoke, smoke water, a commercially concentrated smoke water we call "liquid smoke", charrate, and nitrate) on seed germination for both annual and perennial populations and compared results to those of widely used domesticated seeds. We also examined the effect of light and seed age. Domesticated seeds had no seed dormancy and, except for heat-treated seeds, germination was close to 100% across treatments, including water controls. In contrast, seeds of all wild southern California populations showed some dormancy, germination was highly conditional on test factors, and light inhibited germination. We found differences in dormancy rates among wild populations and years since seed collection, with annuals having higher dormancy than perennials in the first year following collection but not after aging > two years. Of the fire treatments, heat (85C for 10 min), or heat plus smoke, resulted in significantly reduced germination and viability of all populations tested, including domesticated seeds. All smoke treatments significantly improved germination of dormant-seeded populations over water controls, but neither nitrate, water soaking, charrate, nor cold treatment alone broke dormancy. In the absence of cold treatment, both liquid and dry smoke yielded higher germination than controls in seeds aged 8-10 months (65-95% for liquid smoke, 2160% for dry smoke, vs. 14-59% for controls). Moist cold treatment (39C) by itself did not usually break seed dormancy but it did act synergistically to increase germination of smoke-treated seeds and did not harm controls. In contrast, for most populations colder pretreatment (~2C) resulted in a small decrease in germination of water controls but not in seeds smoketreated before cold treatment. Seed age affected germination of controls and the ability of smoke to break dormancy. Germination of controls and smoke-treated seeds increased between 2 and 4 mo of aging in the lab, with no further increase at 8 mo. Dormancy of controls was substantially higher in seeds aged in the lab > 27 months from collection relative to seeds aged 8-10 months (n = 7 and 5 populations, means = 92% and 63% dormant, respectively). Smoke succeeded in breaking dormancy of older seeds to half the extent as in younger seeds, suggesting either a decline in germinability as seeds degrade, induction of a deep secondary dormancy, or both. Given the large differences between domesticated and wild populations in dormancy and germination requirements, and that seed dormancy is probably heritable and adaptive, non-dormant domesticated seeds are not appropriate for restoration, especially in xeric environments that naturally support plants with dormant seeds.
41424480|A new species, Antennaria aromatica, from Montana and Wyoming is described and compared with the morphologically similar A. media, A. umbrinella, and A. alpina.
41424922|The only known population of the rare Sonoma spineflower, Chorizanthe valida, is a colony within a coastal grassland subjected to cattle grazing. Exclosures were constructed and baseline data taken in and outside of the exclosures over four years. Inside the exclosures, C. valida demonstrated considerable phenotypic plasticity and experienced a remarkable population decline. Percent cover transects inside the exclosures revealed a 65% non-native plant cover. Outside the exclosures C. valida continued to thrive with cattle apparently grazing the non-native plants but not C. valida. A cattle grazing regime therefore had a positive influence on the perpetuation of a rare, endemic plant. C. valida seeds were sown into nearby grazed plots and monitored for three years. C. valida continues to reproduce on these sites. Soil analyses were performed for nutrients, pH, texture, and salinity. Recommendations for the management of this rare species are given.
41424525|The identity and circumscription of species of Cracca Bentham in the United States are confused in the literature. As clarified herein, two species of Cracca, C. glabella (Gray), comb, et stat. nov. and C. sericea (Gray) Gray, occur in the United States, where they are restricted to oak woodlands and associated grasslands of southeastern Arizona.
41425264|Relationships between the two California alpine species of Polemonium (P. chartaceum H. Mason and P. eximium E. Greene) as well as their species limits have been uncertain for many years. We sought to clarify these issues through multivariate analysis of floral and foliar characters. We made 16 measurements on each of 159 plants from populations throughout the ranges of P. chartaceum and P. eximium, and from populations of two putatively related species, P. elegans E. Greene from the Cascade Range and P. viscosum Nutt. from the Great Basin and Rocky Mountains. We used multidimensional scaling (MDS) to summarize in three dimensions patterns of variation with regard to the 16 measured variables. We used discriminant analysis to test the robustness of patterns identified in heuristic interpretation of the MDS. Our results suggest populations from the Klamath Range, White Mountains, northern Sierra Nevada (Sonora Pass), and southern Sierra Nevada each form distinct morphological-geographical entities. Patterns of similarity among these groups suggest that P. chartaceum and P. eximium warrant taxonomic revision, and that populations of P. chartaceum from throughout its range have affinities closer to P. elegans than to P. viscosum.
41425130|Wetlands of the central and southern California coast and coastal watersheds belong to one of five major systems: marine, estuarine, riverine, lacustrine, or palustrine. A methodology for classifying these wetlands has been developed by Ferren et al.(1996b) as a modification of the Cowardin et al. (1979) approach. Use of this methodology during a three-year study resulted in the identification of wetlands from this region based on various abiotic and biotic descriptors and arranged in a hierarchical and numerical classification. Dichotomous keys to the higher classification rankings of system, subsystem, and class provide a way to access a catalogue of example wetland types and key additional wetlands.
41425831|Hazardia orcuttii (A. Gray) Greene is a 5-10 dm tall perennial shrub that is native to coastal sage scrub communities of southern California and northern Baja California. This species was listed as threatened by the California Department of Fish and Game in 2002 and is a federal candidate species, and the only known population in the U. S. is on a 1.6 ha mesa located in Encinitas, California. Very little is known about the general ecology of this species, thus, the goal of this research was to characterize the basic soil physical and chemical properties and plant community characteristics associated with this species. Research was conducted between January 2004 and July 2005 in 12.56 m randomly-located plots that either contained or lacked H. orcuttii. Soil in plots containing H. orcuttii had significantly higher clay, soil organic matter, total N, and soil moisture content than plots lacking H. orcuttii, while plots lacking H. orcuttii had significantly more surface litter content. Significant differences were also observed in plant species abundance between plots containing and lacking H. orcuttii, indicating fundamental differences in plant community composition associated with patches of H. orcuttii. Our data support the notion that H. orcuttii is a soil endemic; however, it is unclear whether H. orcuttii prefers soil richer in clay or is restricted to these soils because of other factors. Given the restricted nature of H. orcuttii, and the proximity of the extant population to residential areas, habitat protection from human degradation and fire should be a high priority. Hazardia orcuttii (A. Gray) Greene es un arbusto perenne que mide 5-10 dm de alto que es nativo a la comunidad perteneciente de la salvia chaparro costeno en el sur de California y el la parte fronterizo de Baja California Norte. Esta especie fue enumerada como una que cata bajo de amenaza por el Departamento de California pescaderia y casa en el 2002, y la unica poblacion en los Estados Unidos, esta en una mesa de 1.6 ha ubicado en Encinitas, Calif. Poco se sabe sobre la ecologia general de esta especie, asi, el fin de esta inverrstigacion era de caracterisar las propiedades basicos fsicos y quimicos de la tierra y las carecteristicas planta associadas con esta comunidad de esta especie. Invistigaciones fueron condujidos entre Enero 2004 y Julio 2005 en 12.65 m en parcelas establecidas al azar unos conteniendo y otros careciendo H. orcuttii. Tierra en parcelas conteniendo H. orcuttii tenian significativamente alto niveles de barro, mater organica del suelo, nitrogeno total, y contenido de humedad del suelo que las parcelas careciendo H. orcuttii tenian significatimante mas contenido de revoltura al superficie. Diferencias significativas fueron observados en la abundancia de especie de plantas entre parcelas conteniendo y careciendo de H. orcuttii, indicando diferencias esenciales en el compuesto de la comunidad de las plantas asociado con parches de H. orcuttii. Nuestros datos apoyan la nocion que H. orcuttii es endemica de la tierra sin embargo, no es claro si H. orcuttii prefiere tierra rico en barro o esta limitado a esta tierra por otros elementos. Dado por la naturaleza limitado de H. orcuttii, y la cercania de la proximidad de una poblaciones que existe en areas residenciales, proteccin de los hbitos degradantes causados por la humanidad y el fuego derian ser de alta prioridad.
41426367|The names Swertia recurva Sm. and Halenia recurva (Sm.) C.K. Allen are typified by a specimen of a species native to Colombia. The correct name for the western North American species that has been called H. recurva is H rothrockii A. Gray. Se typifcan los nombres Swertia recurva Sm. y Halenia recurva (Sm.) C.K. Alien por un espcimen de una especie indgena de Colombia. La especie de Norteamrica occidental la quc ha se llamado H. recurva correctamente se llama H. rothrockii A. Gray.
41425702|Field studies and herbarium analyses of populations of Potentilla L. sect. Graciles (Rydb.) A. Nels.with atypical petiole vestiture result in the description of Potentilla gracilisDouglas ex Hook. var.owyheensis as a new variety, differing from var. elmeri and var.flabelliformis in having cottonytomentose vestiture on the petioles instead of appressed to spreading straight hairs. The new variety grows in mid-montane meadows from the Owyhee Mountains in southwestern Idaho to the Ochoco Mountains in northeastern Oregon. It is conceivably of hybrid origin, with Potentilla breweri S.Watson providing the petiole vestiture that is otherwise unknown in Potentilla sect. Graciles. The study also resulted in the improved understanding of Potentilla bruceae Rydb. as a relatively coherent taxon centered in meadows around Lake Tahoe, California. As a result, Potentilla bruceae, Potentilla drummondii Lehm., and Potentilla breweri are recognized as distinct species, with Potentilla subvillosa Rydb. and Potentilla anomalofolia M. Peck as synonyms of Potentilla bruceae. Potentilla versicolor Rydb. is also recognized as a distinct species related to P. breweri but differing in having straight silky hairs rather than cottony tomentum.
41424908|Astragalus tegetarioides is taxonomically redefined following recent discoveries of several new sites for this uncommon milkvetch in eastern Oregon. Consequently, disjunct populations previously reported from ash beds in Lassen County, California, are described as the new species Astragalus anxius, distinguished by root, inflorescence, pubescence, and floral characters. The morphology, natural history, and putative relationships of the two species are contrasted.
41424655|Cytological and morphological evidence supports the merger of Cymophora B. L. Robinson with Tridax L. (Asteraceae: Heliantheae). Chromosome counts of n = 9 are reported for Tridax accedens Blake and the closely related T. dubia Rose. Tridax hintonii (Turner & Powell) Keil, Luckow & Pinkava, comb, nov., is proposed, based on Cymophora hintonii Turner & Powell.
41424289|Comarostaphylis polifolia subsp. coahuilensis is described from the mountains of the central Chihuahuan Desert in Coahuila, Mexico. A discussion of fruit structure supports the generic separation of Comarostaphylis from Arctostaphylos and Arbutus.
41424715|For more than 100 years the conspicuous, large prickly-pear of the Southwest was known as Engelmann Prickly-pear, Opuntia engelmannii Salm-Dyck. In 1965 Benson and Walkington placed the name in synonymy under O. ficus-indica (L.) Miller and proposed O. phaeacantha Engelm. var. discata (Griffiths) L. Benson and Walkington for the Engelmann Prickly-pear. Newly discovered morphological characters, especially a unique glochid arrangement within aroles, and restudy of the publication dates shows the correct name for the Engelmann Prickly-pear to be Opuntia engelmannii Salm-Dyck ex Engelm. Certain other taxa were found to share the glochid arrangement, in addition to other characters, warranting revised synonymy and the following new combinations: O. engelmannii var. lindheimeri; O. engelmannii var.linguiformis; O. engelmannii var.flavispina; and O. engelmannii var. flexospina. Por ms de cien aos el nopal grande y conspicuo del suroeste de los Estados Unidos ha sido conocido como "Engelmann Prickly-pear," Opuntia engelmannii Salm-Dyck. En el ao 1965 Benson y Walkington reconocieron este nombre como sinnimo de O. ficus-indica (L.) Miller y propusieron para el "Engelmann Pricklypear" el nombre O. phaeacantha Engelm. var. discata (Griffiths) L. Benson y Walkington.Caracteres morfolgicos recientemente descubiertos, especialmente una distribucin nica de glquidas adentro de las areolas, y un nuevo estudio de las fechas de publicacin, muestra que el nombre correcto para el "Engelmann Prickly-pear" es O. engelmannii Salm-Dyck ex Engelm. Algunos otros taxa tienen en comn con O. engelmannii la distribucin de glquidas y otros caracteres obligando a una revisin de sinonimia y a las combinaciones nuevas siguientes: O. engelmannii var. lindhei meri; O. engelmannii var. linguiformis; O. engelmannii var. flavispina; and O. engelmannii var. flexospina.
41425567|Silene serpentinicola T. W. Nelson and J. P. Nelson is here described as new, discovered on and endemic to the serpentines of the Smith River basin, within Six Rivers National Forest, Del Norte County, California. The bright carmine-red flowered S. serpentinicola has been confused and with the red-scarlet flowered S. californica Durand and the pink of Silene hookeri Nutt subsp. pulverulenta (Peck) Hitchc. & Mag. However, each is distinctive.
41424703|Acamptopappus comprises A. sphaerocephalus var. sphaerocephalus and var. hirtellus, and A. shockleyi, taxa of the southwestern deserts of the United States. Characteristics shared by these taxa include extremely long-villous achenes, a pappus of long, somewhat erose scales with lanceolate to spatulate apices, deeply alveolate receptacles, short, funnelform disk corollas with deep sinuses and reflexed lobes, very broad phyllaries with very broad, scarious margins, and nearly globose capitula. Chromosome numbers of all taxa are n = 9. The probable closest relatives of this outlying genus are to be found among larger genera of Astereae having x = 9, particularly the ChrysothamnusEricameriaMacronema alliance.
41424824|Gentiana plurisetosa, a new species from southern Oregon and northern California, is distinguished from other species by its multiciliate plicae associated with erect, glabrous stems.
41425177|A recently discovered annual crucifer is the sole representative of a new genus, Sibaropsis. The taxon is currently known from three mountains in the Peninsular Ranges of Southern California with a disjunction of ca. 120 km between the northern and southern populations. Potential affinities with Streptanthus sensu lato are considered, but the true relationships of the new genus remain cryptic. Sibaropsis is readily distinguished from other genera by a suite of characters which includes narrowly linear cotyledons and leaves, slightly zygomorphic corollas with petal claws forming a pseudotube and laminae apically notched, three-ranked staminal configuration with the adaxial filaments partially to wholly united into a nonpetaloid staminode, oblongovate anthers, tardily dehiscent siliques with a beak-like style, and a disarticulating infructescence rachis. The currently known populations are restricted to sunny, lowcompetition, vernally saturated clay soil microhabitats, generally in association with islands of Stipa pulchra grassland surrounded by chaparral.
41425043|Pinus maximartinezii is a rare pinyon pine with a natural range restricted to one site in the state of Zacatecas, Mexico. Based on recent field reconnaissance, the entire distribution has been determined to be approximately 400 hectares. The species' altitudinal distribution is 1600 to 2550 meters above sea level. The population size is estimated to be approximately 2000 to 2500 mature individuals. Observations on the species' reproductive cycle and site and soil characteristics are included in this report. Pinus maximartinezii es un pino pionero muy escaso, con una distribucin natural restringido a un solo sitio en el estado de Zacatecas, Mxico. En base a un reconocimiento reciente del sitio, se ha determinado que el rea total de la poblacin es aproximadamente 400 hectreas. La especie crece entre 1600 y 2550 metros sobre el nivel del mar. Se estima que el numero total de individuos de edad reproductiva es entre 2000 y 2500. Este reporte incluye observaciones del ciclo reproductivo y de las caractersticas del sitio y de los suelos.
41425224|I conducted a demographic study of the endangered perennial herb, Silene spaldingii, following > 170 mapped individuals from 1987 through 1996 on a preserve in northwest Montana. Silene spaldingii occurs in mesic sites, but highest densities are negatively correlated with the density of the largest bunchgrass, suggesting that disturbance may play a positive role in the species' life history. Equilibrium population growth was stable over the period of the study, although significant recruitment occurred in only two of the seven years for which it could be accurately measured. Silene spaldingii is a long-lived perennial, with 72% of the plants observed in 1989 still present in 1994. Plants spent nearly 50% of their summers in a dormant condition, and this appears to be an important life history strategy in this semi-arid environment. Flowering, recruitment, and growth were positively correlated in time, and all were negatively correlated with summer dormancy. These demographic parameters were correlated only with mean winter temperature; however, they exhibited twoyear cycles, suggesting that plants may be strongly influenced by their previous-year performance. Prescribed fire may be a useful tool for managing S. spaldingii at this site.
41426366|The history of the combination Plagiobothrys figuratus (Piper) I. M. Johnst. ex M. Peck is explained, and P. figuratus var. corallicarpus (Piper) K. L. Chambers is proposed to replace an earlier combination at the subspecifc rank. In the Plagiobothrys scouleri (Hook. & Arn.) I. M. Johnst. complex, the following are recognized as separate species for treatment in the Oregon Flora Checklist: P. scouleri, P. reticulatus (Piper) I. M. Johnst., P. bracteatus (Howell) I. M. Johnst., and P. hispidulus (Greene) I. M. Johnst.. Plagiobothrys cusickii (Greene) I. M. Johnst. is made a synonym of the latter taxon. Lectotypes are provided for Allocarya bracteata Howell, A. cusickii var. vallicola Jeps., A. charaxata var. debilis Brand, A. commixta Brand, and A. piperi Brand.
41424881|Clarkia franciscana, originally known from a single population in San Francisco, is a California State-listed rare and endangered species that has figured importantly in our understanding of plant speciation. A second population was recently discovered in the Oakland Hills. To determine whether the Oakland Hills population was genetically distinct from the San Francisco one, we carried out an electrophoretic analysis of isozymes. The two populations are fixed for different aleles at five of the 31 genes examined. This result strongly suggests that the Oakland Hills population did not originate by seed transfer from San Francisco, and that it must be regarded as indigenous to its present locality. We discuss certain implications of this finding for plant conservation policy.
41425565|VTM (Vegetation Type Map) plots comprise a huge data set on vegetation composition for many parts of California collected mostly between 1929 and 1935. Historical changes in vegetation have been inferred by sampling these areas many decades later and evaluating the changes in plant dominance. VTM plots can not be precisely relocated, and it has been assumed that errors resulting from this problem are inconsequential or can be eliminated by comparison with a composite of multiple contemporary plots. This study examines that assumption for southern California shrubland landscapes by comparing the differences in species composition between closely positioned VTM-sized plots. Comparing shrub species density in 400-m plots separated by 30 m (center to center), I found that all species exhibited considerable differences in density even over this short distance. This patchiness in shrub distribution could lead to major errors in historical reconstructions from VTM plot data. Two methods are proposed for dealing with this problem. One is to collect multiple samples from the vicinity of the VTM plot and use the observed spatial variation to set bounds on the temporal changes required to represent significant historical change. The other is to look at broad landscape changes reflected in the averages observed in a large sampling of sites.
41424701|A total of 22 plant taxa were identified from three packrat (Neotoma sp.) midden assemblages radiocarbon dated at 12,87013,330 yr B.P. at 1215 m elevation in Robber's Roost in the Scodie Mountains of Kern Co., California. The Late Wisconsin vegetation was a pinyon-juniper woodland dominated by Pinus monophylla, Juniperus californica, and Ceanothus greggii.Excellent modern analogs are in Cushenberry Canyon and similar areas on the desert slopes of the San Bernardino and San Gabriel mountains. These woodlands are probably relicts of a pinyon-juniper-Joshua tree woodland that was widespread across the southern Mojave Desert in the Late Wisconsin.
41424844|Diploid (n= 6) poppies from the El Paso and Rand mountains of the northwestern Mojave Desert, previously referred to Eschscholzia parishii, are morphologically distinct from that species, with shorter, broader terminal lobes of the leaves, more oblong seeds without micropapiUae, and slightly smaller corollas. In all characters but flower size the plants agree with the hexaploid E. minutiflora and tetraploid E. covillei. We believe that these plants, not E. parishii, represent the diploids in the series. Since the three taxa cannot be consistently distinguished by morphology, and there is no compelling reason to recognize autopolyploid levels as separate species, we describe the new diploid as Eschscholzia minutiflora subsp. twisselmannii and provide for the tetraploid the new status E. minutiflora subsp. covillei. Amapolas diploides (n= 6) de las montaas El Paso y Rand del noroeste del desierto de Mojave, previamente consideradas como Eschscholzia parishii, son distintas morfolgicamente de esa especie. Estas plantas poseen hojas con segmentos terminales ms cortos y anchos, semillas ms oblongas y sin micropapilas, y corolas un poco ms pequeas. En todas las caractersticas, excepto en el tamao de las flores, las plantas se parecen ms a la hexaploide E. minutiflora y a la tetraploide E. covillei. Creemos que estas plantas, y no E. parishii, representan las diploides en la serie. Debido a que los tres taxones no pueden reconocerse por morfologa consistentemente, y no hay una razn obligada a reconocer niveles autopoliploides como especies separadas, nosotros describimos el nuevo diploide como Eschscholzia minutiflora subsp. twisselmannii y para el tetraploide proveemos el nuevo estado E. minutiflora subsp. covillei.
41426212|A species list of vascular plants was compiled for an 80 km area, at elevations of 1770-2745 m, on the west slope of the central Sierra Nevada Mountains. The basin area is topographically and geologically diverse, and it supports a rich flora of more than 500 taxa. The area is relatively undisturbed and includes protected portions suitable for long-term research.
41425000|Seedling emergence of Cercidium microphyllum, Fouquieria splendens and Encelia farinosa was monitored on Tumamoc Hill, Tucson, Arizona, during eight years. Cercidium and Fouquieria emerged in response to warm-season rains. Encelia emerged in the cool season. Minimum rainfall triggers for emergence were: Cercidium, 17 mm; Encelia, 19 mm; Fouquieria, 25 mm. Given a large enough rain trigger during the correct season, emergence of 'Encelia and Cercidium depends further upon appropriate minimum temperatures. Encelia failed to emerge in winters when the absolute minimum temperature during the 9 days after the trigger fell below freezing. On all but one occasion, Cercidium emergence failed when average minimum temperatures within 3 days of the trigger fell below 20C. Multiple emergence events (more than one emergence in a single season) were observed in Cercidium and Encelia. After three emergence pulses, 43 percent of the initial Encelia seed bank remained in the soil. After two emergence pulses, 28 percent of the Cercidium seed bank was left. Both species evidently have persistent seed banks. Fouquieria seeds do not persist in the soil.
41426282|This paper outlines the traditional procedures for monographic and floristic studies, and points out that floristic studies are a link between the producers and the consumers of botanical information.
41425279|The effects of simulated oil field disturbance and topsoil (i.e. E. hooveri seed bank) salvage on E. hooveri reestablishment were evaluated to develop effective strategies for conserving Eriastrum hooveri (Jeps.) Mason, a federally threatened plant. The study was conducted at two experimental sites at the former Naval Petroleum Reserve No. 1 (NPR-1 ), Kern County, CA. This species was initially present at Site 1 and nearly absent at Site 2. Six replications of five treatments were established simulating salvage and non-salvage of E. hooveri seed-laden soil before and after seed maturation and dispersion. Eriastrum hooveri densities were estimated in 1993 (pre-disturbance) and 1995 (post-disturbance). In this study we found that 1) surface disturbance negatively affected E. hooveri density for at least two growing seasons, 2) E. hooveri recolonized disturbed plots in two growing seasons from seed naturally dispersed from adjacent habitat, 3) topsoil salvage and respreading did not significantly affect the recolonization of E. hooveri on disturbed plots, 4) the timing of topsoil salvage had no effect, 5) E. hooveri was established at very low densities on several plots with no previous E. hooveri using topsoil from occupied habitat as a seed source, and 6) E. hooveri cover was inversely related to total vegetation cover but not to exotic grass cover.
41425235|Pollen evidence from two sites in the Santa Barbara region show evidence of vegetation changes following European settlement in California. In the Santa Barbara coastal region, oak woodland populations (dominated by Quercus agrifolio) remained stable during the pre-European period; however, in the last century woodland densities have increased. At higher elevations along the oak woodland/pine forest ecotone, pines are becoming dominant. Reduction in fire frequency has probably been the main factor contributing to density increases. The pollen record does not show any evidence of an expansion of chaparral over the last 200 years; however, there is weak evidence for an increase in coastal-sage scrub since the early 1800' s. The transformation of the California grassland appears to have begun particularly early with the invasion of Erodium cicutariwn in the region even before the first Spanish settlement in California.
41425858|Sedum valens (Crassulaceae) is described from the Salmon River Canyon of central Idaho. Though it shares numerous morphological traits with Sedum borschii and S. leibergii, the species differs strikingly in having myriad leaves packed into rosettes as wide as 1 dm. The leaves are ciliate, a characteristic otherwise unknown in temperate North American Sedum, except in Sedum radiatum, a highly dissimilar species. Further distinguishing characteristics are found in leaf shape, phenology, fruit characteristics and in habitat.
41426117|The bruchid (seed) beetle Megacerus impiger is usually found in populations of perennial, native morning glory (Calystegia) in California. Each beetle matures inside a single Calystegia seed, destroying the seed. Seed set of the four ovules per flower prior to predation by the beetles varies among the populations sampled from 1.6 to 3.8. Mean seed weight varies also, from 32.8 mg/seed in C. atriplicifolia to 11.2 mg/seed in C. stebbinsii but beetles can develop to adults in all. Beetles lay eggs on young seeds in May or June in most Calystegia populations in cismontane California. Adults emerge from mature seeds by July or August and oviposit on other mature seeds retained in open capsules. The second crop of adults produces a third ovipositing or overwintering group of beetles; there is thus a potential for extensive seed destruction in the plants. Minimum seed destruction (in C. fulcrata) varied from 0.005 percent to 36.3 percent, not considering predation on fallen seeds. Genus-specific seed predation by M. impiger among at least 13 taxa of Calystegia in California suggests close similarities in reproductive features of a group in which taxa have been difficult to distinguish by reproductive features alone.
41425434|The adult sex ratio of Arceuthobium gillii was determined from five populations in southern Arizona and one population in Chihuahua, Mexico. A total of 6154 mistletoe plants were sexed on a total of 38 host trees; 3096 of these were male plants (50.3%) and 3058 were female (49.7%). A chi-square analysis indicated that these numbers were not significantly different from an essentially 1:1 sex ratio. Furthermore, although there was variation between trees (more male or female plants) the sex ratio on individual trees, and for each population, was also essentially 1:1.
41424774|Monardella beneolens, a new species from the crest of the southern Sierra Nevada in Inyo, Kern, and Tulare counties, California, is described and illustrated. The new species is ecologically and morphologically closest to M. cinerea of subalpine and alpine habitats in the San Gabriel Mountains, Los Angeles and San Bernardino counties, southern California. The subsessile, ovate, undulate-crisped leaves; abundant short-stalked glandular hairs on the leaves, bracts, and calyces; and longer spreading eglandular hairs throughout collectively distinguish M. beneolens from all other species of Monardella.
41425668|A multivariate analysis was performed for populations of Echinocereus (section Triglochidiatus) to facilitate the taxonomic circumscription of E. arizonicus subsp. arizonicus. Twenty-one morphological characters for 16 populations evidenced the validity of at least two subspecific taxa within E. arizonicus: E. arizonicus subsp. arizonicus and E. arizonicus subsp. nigrihorridispinus. Principle components analysis indicated that stem characters were most diagnostic in defining two distinct groups of populations, each including the type locality of one of the two subspecies. Unweighted pair group method with arithmetic mean (UPGMA) clustered populations of the two subspecies apart from one another and from those of the outgroup, E. triglochidiatus subsp. mojavensis. For most measured characters, means differed significantly between the two subspecies. Discriminant analysis correctly classified 97.0% for individuals of E. arizonicus subsp. arizonicus and 94.7% for individuals of E. arizonicus subsp. nigrihorridispinus, compared to an overall 97.8% correct classification of individuals for all perfect-flowered taxa of section Triglochidiatus investigated.
41426220|Ipomopsis longiflora (Torr.) V. Grant subsp. australis Fletcher & W. L. Wagner is described from southwestern New Mexico and Arizona south and west of the Mogolln Rim. Short capsules, which do not or only slightly exceed the calyx, clearly separate subsp. australis from the typical subspecies, with its strongly exserted capsules.
41426197|A new species, Dudleya caldcola, is described from the southern Sierra Nevada in Kern and Tulare Counties, California. The xeric limestone habitat, associated species, and ecological adaptations of the plant are discussed.
41426307|An analysis of the reproductive biology of the Santa Ana Woolly Star, Eriastrum densifolium ssp. sanctorum (Milliken) H. Mason shows that the primary pollinators of this rare and endangered plant include the Giant Flower-loving Fly, hummingbirds, bumble bees, halictid bees, and digger bees. In comparison to previous studies (Munoz 1991; Erickson 1993; Stone 1995), fewer individuals of each pollinating species were present in this study suggesting that overall fruit set may be declining. However, seed set per fruit appears to be similar to values found in earlier studies indicating that pollinator efficiency is not a limiting factor. In fact, the three principal pollinators that were tested were all reasonably efficient pollen vectors. Only a single simulated pollination event was usually required to effect normal fruit and seed set, indicating that this plant is not dependent on any single pollinator for its reproductive success. The flowers produced an average of nearly 2 1 of nectar per flower, which is in the range of insect pollinated plants.
41424287|Percent cover of plants with extrafloral nectaries was investigated in three California habitats with the same physiognomy as habitats previously studied in Nebraska (perennial native grassland, riparian forest, deciduous forest). In contrast to Nebraska where cover of plants with extrafloral nectaries reached 14 percent, no plants with extrafloral nectaries were found in any California transect. Chaparral was also studied; no plants with extrafloral nectaries were found.
41425281|As part of a revegetation program for Quercus agrifolia Nee, we examined the reported effect of nurse plant facilitation on seedling establishment and growth. To investigate this location effect, acorns were planted directly in the ground in 100 positions under shrubs, and in 100 positions in the open. In addition, we tested for the effect of protection by covering half the planting positions with cages. In the first year, acorns planted in the open had higher germination but lower survival than acorns planted under shrubs, resulting in no significant location effect on the success of seedling establishment. The protection effect was significant, with the success of caged seedlings almost double that of uncaged seedlings. After two years, no location effect on seedling survival or growth was found. Cages continued to have a significant positive effect on seedling survival, but they tended to retard their growth. Over five years of monitoring, no significant effect of nurse plant facilitation on seedling survival or growth was found, although the number of seedlings that survived under shrubs was greater than that in the open. We also explored potential relationships of associated vegetation type and crowding on acorn seedling development. Seedling establishment, survival, and growth were associated with differences in vegetation type, and were higher in planting sites with more mesic vegetation. Crowding due to multiple seedlings growing in one planting position versus single seedlings did not negatively affect the growth of seedlings. Of 100 nurserygrown seedlings transplanted in the field in the first year, 99 were surviving at the end of the five-year monitoring period, and on average, they were much larger than the direct acorn plantings. As with the acorn seedlings, no significant nurse plant location effect was found for seedlings transplanted in the open or under shrubs.
41425344|Old-growth Sequoia sempervirens (D. Don) Endl. (redwood) forests occurring in northwestern California and southwestern Oregon were classified and described using data from 206 systematically placed plots. Data were collected from Jedediah Smith Redwoods State Park, Del Norte Coast Redwoods State Park, northern Redwood National Park, and the southwestern portion of the Siskiyou National Forest.Plot data were analyzed using TWINSPAN and polar ordination. Six associations within the redwood series were classified: Sequoia sempervirensl Polystichum munitum (Kaulf) C. Presl (SESE/POMU), Sequoia sempervirens-Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirbel) Franco/Rhododendron macrophyllum D. Don (SESEPSME/RHMA), Sequoia sempervirens-Tsuga heterophylla (Raf.) Saig./Vaccinium ovatum Pursh (SESETSHE/VAOV), Sequoia sempervirens-Tsuga heterophylla/Polystichum munitum (SESE-TSHE/POMU), Sequoia sempervirens-Tsuga heterophylla/Rubus spectabilis Pursh (SESE-TSHE/RUSP), and Sequoia sempervirens-Alnus rubra Bong./Rubus spectabilis (SESE-ALRU/RUSP). Discriminant analysis was used to assess the relationships between abiotic site variables and classified floristic associations. Elevation and coastal proximity explained 81.1 percent of the variation among associations. Aspect and topographic position explained 14.2 percent of the remaining variation. Moisture was the primary environmental variable controlling the distribution of classified forest associations.
41424368|Stands of subalpine-alpine vegetation from the southern Sierra Nevada were sampled (n = 97) and compared using Braun-Blanquet methodology. The study was undertaken (1) to characterize, using floristic criteria, the prinicpal vegetation types occurring within the study area; (2) to consider the influence of environmental factors on vegetational patterns; and (3) to provide a basis for making floristic and vegetational comparisons within the study area and elsewhere. The vegetational relevs (stand surveys) were organized into tables and assigned rank in a hierarchical system solely on the basis of floristic affinities. Five alliances and twelve associations were recognized and described phytosociologically and ecologically. Four major environmental features were considered to order the vegetation in the landscape: moisture regime, snow cover, elevation, and substrate stability. Festucion brachyphyllae occurs in truly alpine sites within the study area. Primulion suffrutescentis is characteristic of both mid-and high-elevation sites, especially on north slopes where the snow lies late and the growing season is short. Pino-Caricion exsertae occurs on the gravelly slopes and terraces in the mid-elevation Pinus albicaulis subalpine forest. Monardello-Holodiscion microphylli is characteristic of the usually dry, stabilized talus of mid-elevations. Dodecathion redolentis represents the mid-elevation meadow of streamsides and topographic lows that remain moist to wet throughout the season. A total of 277 vascular plant taxa belonging to 38 families were found within the study area.
41425488|Regeneration of hardwood species on three streams in the northern Sierra Nevada was correlated with several environmental factors. The occurrence of seedlings of Salix lutea (yellow willow), Salix laevigata (red willow), and Alnus tenuifolia (mountain alder) were negatively correlated with canopy cover and litter depth, and positively correlated with solar radiation. All three species occurred more frequently on sandy soils where the stream channel was wide and the slope was relatively shallow. The occurrence of Populus fremontii (black cottonwood) seedlings was negatively correlated with canopy cover, and sandy soils, and positively correlated with distance from the watercourse and solar radiation. Acer macrophyllum (big leaf maple) and Cornus sericea (American dogwood) seedlings occurred under relatively dense canopy cover, in low light environments, but were limited to sandy soils and wide stream channels. Results indicate that the hardwood species that exist in riparian corridors within the Sierra Nevada mixed conifer forest type are variably reliant on conditions common to flood prone areas such as sandy mineral soils and a high light environment for regeneration.
41426170|The influence of elevational range, area, and collecting time on the absolute gamma diversity of 20 local floras in Arizona is determined by multiple regression. Elevational range and collecting time together account for 77% of the variance in species number among the floras. Residuals from the prediction equation are used to derive a measure of the relative gamma diversity of each flora. The remaining variance is associated with vegetation community-types, presence of permanent water, and occurrence of major canyon environments. Vegetation community types that are rich in species are Madrean evergreen woodland and desert grassland. Sonoran desert scrub and interior chaparral are relatively poor in species.
41425387|The perennial plant species, Datura wrightii Regel (Solanaceae) is dimorphic for leaf trichome type. Some plants produce almost exclusively short, non-glandular trichomes, while other plants within the same population produce almost exclusively longer, glandular trichomes. In a previous survey of 19 southern California populations, the frequency of plants producing glandular trichomes ranged from 0-82%, and plants with glandular trichomes were absent from desert populations. Here we expand our studies to a total of 56 D. wrightii populations from central and southern California. We also examined the relationship between the frequency of glandular trichomes and two factors that broadly determine the availability of water at each site. The first was mean annual rainfall, while the second was mean annual evapotranspiration rate. The frequency of plants with glandular trichomes increased with increasing mean rainfall and decreased with increasing mean annual evapotranspiration rate. Combined, these two environmental variables accounted for about one-third of the variation in the proportion of plants with glandular trichomes. Results suggest that the production of a water-based exdate by plants with glandular trichomes may impose an additional demand for water on those plants compared to plants with nonglandular trichomes. Because of this additional water demand, the frequency of plants with glandular trichomes may decline relative to that of plants with non-glandular trichomes as available water becomes more limiting.
41424297|Postfire recovery of three desert shrubs, Larrea tridentata, Hymenoclea salsola, and Opuntia echinocarpa was examined five years after a fire in the Snow Creek area of southern California. Larrea tridentata resprouted and had nearly regained its estimated former cover. O. echinocarpa excepted, the community has shown substantial recovery. The upper distribution of these desert shrubs may be controlled in part by their susceptibility to periodic fire.
41702546|Vaccinium parvifolium Sm. (Ericaceae) is an important understory shrub in conifer forests in western North America. Populations putatively classified as V. parvifolium in northern California display alternate berry morphology, consistent with a possible phenotypic diversification or cryptic speciation. Identification of cryptic species or subspecies would influence management guidelines given the limited range of some morphological variants. In order to inform management guidelines, two Vaccinium species were characterized via molecular genetic analyses. Plants of typical V. parvifolium morphology from the coastal areas of northwest California, western Oregon and Washington, atypical plants from Shasta County and the central Sierra Nevada, and one population of V. deliciosum Piper, a congener, were assessed at five nuclear microsatellite loci. Analyses of differentiation, admixture, and phylogenetic relationships indicated that populations displaying atypical morphology were more similar to V. deliciosum than to the typical V. parvifolium. Although additional data are required to determine whether these differences warrant taxonomic treatment within Vaccinium, management plans should consider three distinct gene pools amo" hg these populations.
41413358|At several sites in the Mojave Desert, shrubs occur that are intermediate in morphology between Haplopappus cooperi and H. linearifolius. Where these species occur together and both are common, intermediates generally comprise about one per 300 of the combined populations. Morphological features readily recognized in the field are plant stature, number and size of flower heads per flowering stem, peduncle lengths, and leaf size and shape. In all respects, the distributions of characters in the intermediates lie between those of H, cooperi and H. linearifolius. As each species varies morphologically among sites, the morphology of the intermediates also varies and retains its intermediacy. We conclude that the intermediates are sterile hybrids of H. cooperi and H. linearifolius and that these two species belong in the same section of the genus as suggested recently.
41425662|Triteleia laxa (Themidaceae), a liliaceous geophyte common in California at lower elevations with mediterranean climate, was studied during 19982004 at four sites in the northern Sacramento Valley. New individual plants were randomly selected each year at one to four of these grassland or open savanna sites to provide a composite study of the biology and life history of the plant. A mature plant produced two leaves after fall rains begin, a new corm on top of the shrinking old corm in spring, and a scape with an umbel of large bluish flowers in late March or April. By seed production in May, above-ground parts were dead, and the new corm and seeds persisted through summer. Mean leaf lengths varied from 22 to 28 cm; no correlation was found with amount of precipitation. Mean scape lengths also varied, from 23 to 32 cm; overall, there was a negative correlation with spring precipitation. Corms of flowering plants had a mean volume of 1.30 cm , and occurred at a mean depth of 7.27 cm; corm volume was correlated with scape height and with number of flowers. Dry mass increased linearly in the new corm during the spring growth period. Number of flowers per plant varied among sites and the mean varied highly significantly among 5 yr (range 812.6). Plants appeared to be largely self-incompatible, but produced a small number of selfed seeds when pollinated by hand. The pollemovule ratio was about 3100:1. Mean fruit set (range 5074%) and mean seed set (range 4058%) were low, and varied significantly among sites and years. Seed mass averaged about 1.7 mg, and seeds showed 100% viability. Germination time was about 4 wk after wetting, with up to 98% of seeds germinating. The seedling was carried downward from the seed by the elongating cotyledon, ultimately producing a single foliage leaf, a lateral contractile root that shortened in April (and in situ doubtless pulls the seedling deeper into the soil), and a corm <4 mm in diameter. Soils occupied in study sites were loams, with 20 to 39% clay particles. This study on T. laxa gives a reasonably complete picture of the biology for a common geophyte, and we hope that this work will provide impetus for additional studies of other widespread or local geophytes.
41425479|Ceanothus bolensis S. Boyd & J. Keeley is a new species in the subgenus Cerastes from northwestern Baja California, Mexico. It is well represented at elevations above 1000 m on Cerro Bola, a basaltic peak approximately 35 km south of the U.S./Mexican border. It is characterized by small, obovate to oblanceolate, cupped, essentially glabrous leaves with sparsely toothed margins, pale blue flowers, and globose fruits lacking horns. Principal components analysis on morphological traits shows it to be distinct from other members of Cerastes which are distributed away from the coast in southern California and Baja California, Mexico. These phenetic comparisons also suggest that Ceanothus otayensis should not be subsumed under C. crassifolius, as treated in the Jepson Manual, but rather should be retained at specific rank as well. Ceanothus bolensis S. Boyd & J. Keeley es una nueva especie del subgnero Cerastes en el noroeste de Baja California, Mxico. Esta bien representada en altitudes por arriba de los 1000 m en el Cerro Bola, un pico basltico, aprximadamente a 35 km de la frontera de USA/Mxico. Esta se caracteriza por hojas pequeas, obovadas a oblanceoladas, convexas, esencialmente glabras y con mrgenes esparcidamente dentados, flores azul plido y frutos globosos sin cornculos. El anlisis de componentes principales con caracteres morfolgicos la presenta como distinta de otros miembros de Cerastes distribuidos lejos de la costa en el sur de California y de Baja California, Mxico. La comparacin fentica tambin sugiere que Ceanothus otayensis no debe ser incluida dentro de C. crassifolius como en el Manual de Jepson, sino ms bien debera ser retenida a nivel especie.
41424822|Field and herbarium studies have revealed the presence of 20-stamen black-fruited hawthorns (Crataegus) from 29 sites in the northern Rocky Mountains. This entity has often been treated as a variety of the 10-stamen species, C. douglasii, and was formerly believed to be essentially restricted to west of the Cascade/Sierra Range. We present evidence that the 20-stamen form is diploid whereas C. douglasii is tetraploid, and that the two differ substantially in morphology, ecology and phenology. These lines of evidence strongly support Kruschke's treatment of the 20-stamen entity as a distinct species, C. suksdorfii.
41424817|The effect of stand age on growth dynamics of two chaparral shrubs, Adenostoma fasciculatum and Ceanothus greggii, was studied in southern California. It was asked whether shoots of young shrubs grow faster than those of old ones, and if on young shrubs more shoots develop per square meter of canopy projection area than on old ones. These measurements were made in ten chaparral stands representing six different ages ranging from 6 to 87 years. Measurements taken biweekly throughout the 1984 growing season indicated no decline in growth rates or biomass of new shoots with increasing stand age. Variability in measurements was as high among even-aged stands as among stands of differing ages. Measured values were very low compared to earlier studies, probably because of very low rainfall in 1983-1984.
41425832|Sclerophyll shrubs such as Arctostaphyllos viscida Parry (Ericaceae; whiteleaf manzanita) are often considered obstacles to afforestation. The establishment of conifer plantations in southwest Oregon presents challenging problems for initial seedling survival and subsequent growth. This region is characterized by hot dry summers, cool moist winters, and rocky, shallow soils at low elevations. The growth of competing hardwoods within conifer plantations creates the traditional problem of undesirable competition for the silviculturist. Accumulation of manzanita biomass also contributes heavily to fire hazard while at the same time providing biomass of potential value as biofuel. This study describes productivity of whiteleaf manzanita stands of varying density growing within the confines of Pinus ponderosa Dougl. ex C. Lawson var. ponderosa (Pinaceae; ponderosa pine) plantations of the same age on poor sites. We explore the ability of this shrub to generate biomass as a potential energy source. Growth prediction equations are for height, basal diameter, biomass per individual, and biomass per hectare by stand density. The accumulated biomass after 14 yr of growth ranges around 43 metric tons/ha, and represents a strong negative influence on the supposed productivity of interplan ted pines of the same age. Energy content of biomass amounts to an accumulation rate of 1.6 X 10 megajoules/ha/yr on such sites, indicating a large biofuel potential by age 14 or more. Harvesting the manzanita will also provide a potential benefit to productivity of the pines.
41425227|In late September 1994, a lightning fire burned a portion of the annual grassland on a Sierra Nevada foothill, basaltic mesa known as McKenzie Table located approximately 28 km northeast of Fresno, California. Permanent 1-m quadrats were established in burned and unburned plots to determine the effect of fire on the plantspecies composition of McKenzie Table. Data were gathered between February and June 1995. Vulpia microstachys sensu lato, a native annual grass, had the highest relative density for both the unburned and the burned plots with 14.14% and 11.81%, respectively. Using percent cover as a measure of dominance, a one-way ANOVA revealed significant differences in dominance between the burned and unburned plots; Blennosperma nanum var. nanum (P < 0.05), Brodiaea terrestris ssp. kernensis (P < 0.01), Crassula connata (P < 0.01), Lasthenia califomica (P < 0.01), Montia fontana (P < 0.01), Navarretia tagetina (P < 0.01), Triphysaria eriantha ssp. eriantha (P < 0.01), and Trifolium variegatum (P < 0.01) had significantly greater dominance values for the burned plot. Hypochaeris glabra (P < 0.01) had significantly greater dominance values for the unburned plot. The unburned plot (36 native taxa) had 12 more native taxa than the burned plot (24 native taxa), but none had significantly different dominance values. In a comparison of species composition, the burned plot had higher percentages of native species. For native species, the Shannon-Wiener index of diversity (H') is significantly greater (P < 0.01) for the burned plot (H' = 5.63) compared to the unburned plot (H' = 3.90). One season of results indicate that burning in the summer or fall may reduce non-native species, such as Hypochaeris glabra, and increase native-species diversity on McKenzie Table.
41424860|Pectis pimana is a new species of west-central Chihuahua, Mexico. It is most closely related to P. filipes of sect. Pectothrix from which it differs most conspicuously by its 8-rayed instead of 5-rayed heads and more numerous pappus awns. Pectis pimana se describe como nueva especie del parte oeste-central de Chihuahua, Mxico. Est emparentada lo ms cercana con P. filipes de la Seccin Pectothrix, de cual se distingue por sus cabezuellas con 8 rayas en vez de 5, y por sus aristas del vilano ms numerosas.
41425252|Atriplex longitrichoma, a newly reported annual species from southwestern Nevada, and east-central California is described and illustrated. It is most abundant in Pahrump Valley, NV, in abandoned agricultural fields, in roadside borrow pits; and, in favorable years, occurs in contiguous, undisturbed sites. It is a tetraploid species, apparently most closely related to Atriplex hillmanii (Jones) Standley.
41424538|A broad-based examination o Asarina s. str. has been undertaken to elucidate its systematic and phytogeographic relationship to New World species in tribe Antirrhineae.Asarina procumbens is differentiated from Old World and New World species by a combination of distinctive characters: procumbent stems, opposite leaves, orbiculate to reniform laminas, solitary flowers in leaf axils, large personate corollas, and globose capsules. Although the pollen morphology and seed coat anatomy of Asarina s. str. are shared with some taxa in the New World, A. procumbens is crossincompatible with purported congeneric species and differs from native American species by three unique features: opposite leaves with orbiculate to cordiform laminas, a chromosome base number of nine, and a bullate-corrugate seed coat ornamentation. It is hypothesized that A. procumbens is more closely related to Old World species, that Asarina sensu Penneil delimits an unnatural and heterogeneous assemblage of species, and that Asarina, unlike Antirrhinum, does not represent a genus with a North American European Mediterranean disjunction.
41425692|Economic and ecological problems brought by the invasion of non-native species can be prevented in part by identifying patterns in the invasion process. We tested hypotheses that address variation in the spatial, taxonomic, and temporal distributions of non-native floras in the large and diverse geographic area defined as California. Analyses reveal that in time, 79% of all non-native species will occur in disturbed habitat; polyploidy is not correlated with geographic spread; the Poaceae and Brassicaceae are the most broadly represented families across elevations; introductions increase from all geographic regions from 1925 to 1969, but more recently from Asia, Australia, Africa, South Africa, and South America; and more than 50% of all alien taxa recorded prior to 1925 have become widespread. Some taxa without native representatives contain some of the worst invaders in the flora, thus we suggest that control efforts should be directed to recent arrivals without native representation.Our conclusions support the need to control the spread of non-natives early in the invasion process but also emphasize the need to control invasions from a floristic perspective, both locally and regionally.
41425225|Erythronium taylori, a new species from the central Sierra Nevada of California, is described and illustrated. This new taxon has evident affinities to other Californian Erythronium with unmottled leaves, especially E. pusaterii. The plain-leaved fawnlilies of the Sierra Nevada have similarities in floral and other structures, suggesting that they form a single clade.
41425906|The aim of this study was to clarify the relationships between Elymus alaskanus and E. violaceus in northwest North America. We performed a morphological and biogeographic analyses of ca. 300 widely distributed herbarium specimens. Following a univariate analysis of morphological characters used in contemporary treatments, we found no clear character, or combination of characters, that differentiates unambiguously among the taxa at the specific level. However, glume and lemma trichome length reliably separated E. alaskanus subsp. hyperarcticus from other taxa. Specimens could not be differentiated at the specific level by habitat preferences or geographic distribution as described in the most current treatments. Further, principal components analysis and cluster analysis were unable to reliably segregate specimens into groups. Discriminant analysis reliably grouped E. violaceus and E. alaskanus subsp. hyperarcticus, but not E. alaskanus specimens. In the development of a relevant treatment for E. alaskanus and E. violaceus, we recommend that (i) E. violaceus be treated as a subspecies of E. alaskanus and called E. alaskanus subsp. latiglumis, and (ii) E. alaskanus subsp. alaskanus and E. alaskanus subsp. hyperarcticus continue to be recognized at the subspecific level.
41424502|Transpiration rates among chaparral species were found to correlate with mode of reproduction. Species of Ceanothus and Arctostaphylos that regenerate following fire only by seedlings were found to transpire on the average 2 times the rate of stumpsprouting species. The correlation of these two life history traits suggested that other characteristics might also diverge among species of different reproductive mode. Data from the literature for water use, photosynthesis, and growth suggest that the divergence within Ceanothus and Arctostaphylos represents a fundamental change in species life-history; seedlings of obligate-seeding species may have been selected for rapid growth, exploitative resource use, and physiological tolerance of stresses during seedling establishment.Thus, obligate seeders may have seedlings with a better potential for establishment in comparison with seedlings of stump-sprouting species.
41425033|Vegetation dominated by Quercus wislizenii (interior live oak) in the San Bernardino Mountains may be classified as chaparral or hardwood forest, depending on its structure and composition. Structure, dynamics, and species composition are described differently for Q. wislizenii forest and chaparral, but relationships among these types are not always clear. This leads to uncertainty in classification and management. We sampled Q. wislizenii stands in the San Bernardino Mountains, then used multivariate techniques to group plots and to distinguish among characteristics of Q. wislizenii dominated chaparral and forest. We identified and described one forest type and two distinct shrubland types. We conclude that one of the shrubland types, occurring with sprouting chaparral species on steep mountain sides, is best recognized as interior live oak chaparral. The other type, occurring on more moderate slopes, is better considered an early-developmental interior live oak forest. About half of the sample plots remained unclassified, indicating floristic and structural continua rather than discrete categories. Structural and floristic characteristics of the three types are used to clarify relationships between Q. wislizenii chaparral and forest, and to describe development of forest from shrublands that resemble chaparral. We recommend consideration of these relationships in management decisions.
41424937|The nickel concentration of whole plants of Arenaria rubella collected on dunite, Skagit County, Washington, U.S.A., is reported as 1360 g g (dry weight), compared with only 2.7 g g for specimens collected on shale, Jefferson County. This is the first hyperaccumulator of nickel reported from northwestern North America. High concentrations of chromium, cobalt and iron at 213, 33.5 and 28,900 g g respectively, in plants from dunite contrast with low values (3, 0.49 and 600 g g) in samples from shale.
41425254|Gilia yorkii, a new species discovered in the southern Sierra Nevada, is restricted to limestone outcrops. From its morphology G. yorkii is identified as a member of Gilia sect. Saltugilia, and within the section it appears most like G. scopulorum M. E. Jones, a desert species. The two species differ in several characters, including different corolla proportions and some contrasting trichome details.
41424316|A key is provided for the five species of Salix in the Chihuahuan Desert Region with two-stamened flowers and leaves with stomates almost confined to the lower surfaces. One species, s. lasiolepis Bentham, was previously known and named; three new species are described from the state of Coahuila: S. pattersonii, S. riskindii, and S. wendtii. The fifth species, also from Coahuila, is discussed but remains nameless because it is known only from two sterile collections.
41424884|Absence of blue oak (Quercus douglasii Hook. & Am.) saplings and seedlings has been noted throughout much of the species range. Our ability to assess whether the present poor regeneration is a natural pattern or a response to human induced environmental change is limited by lack of data on the history of blue oak recruitment. In this study, stand age analysis is used to reconstruct former patterns of blue oak regeneration and recruitment in three blue oak woodlands on the Tejon Ranch, Kern County, California. Analysis of 279 cross-sections showed that 56% of all stems sampled were recruited in 1856. Prior to 1856, recruitment was relatively continuous. Only 3% of all stems stems aged date to the period from 1864 to the present. Analysis of fire scars found an increase in fire frequency during the 1850's and 60's, followed by a distinct decrease in fires for a 70 year period. Differing patterns of regeneration were found to coincide with changes in local land use. During Indian occupation of the area, the woodland appears to have been less dense, with a slow but steady process of replacement, adequate to maintain the woodland. Changes in fire frequency and browsing patterns, associated with European settlement in the mid-19th century, resulted in unusually high rates of regeneration and recruitment. Since the 1860's, commercial livestock grazing, reduction of fire frequency, and an increase in density have resulted in virtually complete suppression of regeneration.
41424699|The Sawatch Range, located in central Colorado, is part of the Southern Rocky Mountains. Extending over 130 km in a north-south direction and 65 km in an eastwest direction, the range is the highest and one of the most extensive in the state. No previous floristic work has been done on its tundra. Sixteen study areas distributed throughout the entire range were analyzed over four field seasons. A vascular flora of 289 taxa in 118 genera and 35 families is reported. Two taxa are recent new records for the state. Eight taxa are Colorado endemics. Sixteen taxa are limited to calcareous substrates within the range. The phytogeographic distribution of the flora is primarily alpine (38.1%) and western North American (31.5%). According to Sorensen's Index of Similarity, the floristic inventory of the Sawatch Range shows an overall consistency among the tundra vascular floras of the Mosquito and West Elk Ranges, Indian Peaks area of the Front Range, and the San Juan Mountains.
41424526|Linanthus nuttallii subsp. howellii Nelson & Patterson is described from the serpentine soil of the southern Klamath Mountains of California. It is near L. nuttallii subsp. nuttallii and subsp. pubescens morphologically, differing by its smaller leaf lobes as well as dense pubescence.
41426310|Harmonia guggolziorum is a new tarweed from ultramafic (serpentine) soils of southern Mendocino County, California. Unlike other species of Harmonia, H. guggolziorum combines the following morphological characteristics: primary stems usually longer than branches of the subumbelliform capitulescences, leaves unevenly distributed but not densely congested, heads erect in bud and fruit, phyllaries irregularly hirsute, disc florets bisexual, ray cypselae weakly arcuate, ray pappi present, and disc pappi of linear, fimbriate scales 0.60.8 mm long. Based on molecular phylogenetic data, I suggest that H. guggolziorum is the only known representative of a lineage that predates diversification of the other serpentine endemic species of Harmonia (i.e., H. doris-nilesiae, H. hallii, and H. stebbinsii). The apparent phylogenetic relationships and geographic location of H. guggolziorum lead me to hypothesize that Harmonia originated in the southern North Coast Ranges and has undergone more extensive diversification on ultramafics than previously suspected for the genus or any other lineage in Madiinae.
41425584|Ecological data are lacking for many species covered in multi-species habitat conservation plans and other regional conservation plans. Erodiwn macrophyllum (Geraniaceae) is a rare native annual forb found throughout California, southern Oregon, and northern Baja California (Mexico) for which very little ecology is known. I report on the habitat characteristics and current and historical distribution of E. macrophyllum by collecting data on populations in Riverside and San Louis Obispo Counties and by conducting an herbaria search and electronic-mail survey. Erodium macrophyllum population sizes range from a few individuals to over 1000 and are restricted to heavy clay soils. Most populations are found on the eastern side of the coast ranges in California. The clay soils on which it is found typically have low cover of native and exotic species but often have other rare species. They are also generally low in nitrogen and phosphorus, but there is considerable variation. Based on herbaria records and the e-mail survey, E. macrophyllum was probably once more common and may have occurred on other soil types.
41424537|In addition to the native Spartina foliosa, four species of Spartina have been established in San Francisco Bay by human introduction. One species, Spartina patens, has been reported previously and appears to have been introduced acciden tally. Three species, S. alterniflora, S. anglica, and S. densiflora, have been introduced in attempts to establish cordgrass within marsh restoration projects. Only S. alterniflora and S. densiflora have spread beyond their original sites of introduction. The latter species has been introduced from Humboldt Bay, where it was previously included in the taxon S. foliosa. Morphological and ecological data support the conclusion that the species occurring in Humboldt Bay should be referred to as Spartina densiflora and was probably introduced to northern California from South America during the mid-nineteenth century.
41426185|A new species, Galium dempsterae, is described from gypseous deposits in northcentral Mexico. It is known from only two collections, both obtained from Cerro Pea in southern Nuevo Leon. The taxon is related to yet another gypsophile, G. juniperinum, from areas about Cerro Potosi, Nuevo Leon; both of these taxa relate to G. lacrimiforme, a suspected gypsophile of the same broad region.
41424787|Puccinellia howellii, a new species from the Trinity Mountains of California, is described. As is typical of the genus, this species occurs in mineralized soils, in this case in a series of mineralized seeps; it is known only from the type locality. The new species is morphologically similar to P. pumila, a species of coastal habitats.
41425001|Qualitative and quantitative data on woody and succulent plant distribution in Baja California, Mexico were collected from 17 January to 21 February, 1991. Qualitative data from 196 samples were then clustered using TWINSPAN, a divisive, polythetic classification program. Fourteen scrub and woodland plant communities are described quantitatively using line-transect data. This is the first quantitative description of scrub plant communities for most of the peninsula. We compared our results with previous classifications and found close agreement in the California Floristic Province of Baja California (northwest). Comparisons were mixed in the Sonoran Desert region, suggesting more complicated mosaic species distributions. In the Sonoran desert, there was a general trend of increasing tree cover correlated with increasing rainfall from north to south. Vegetation maps at 1:250,000 and 1:1,000,000 scales produced in Mexico exist for Baja California. We compared our classification scheme to that used in these maps by first subjectively grouping our samples according to the Mexican scheme. We compared these data with data from the TWINSPAN analysis using indices of similarity. There is little agreement between the two classification schemes. The Mexican scheme, based on dominant life forms, is broader in scope and approximates vegetation types described here only in northern Baja California. Mapping units are poorly defined and there are many inconsistencies among maps. While these maps are a potentially rich source of information, we suggest that they be used only as a general guide to life forms of Baja California. Se colectaron datos cuantitativos y cualitativos sobre la distribucin de plantas leosas y suculentas de la Pennsula de Baja California, Mxico, del 17 de enero al 21 de febrero de 1991. Los datos cualitativos, obtenidos de 196 muestras, fueron clasificados mediante el uso del programa TWINSPAN, programa divisivo y polifiltico. Para gran parte de la pennsula, sta es la primera descripcin cuantitativa que se realiza. En lo que respecta a la Provincia Floristica de California (noroeste de Baja California) los resultados concordaron estrechamente con previas clasificaciones. Sin embargo, en la regin del Desierto Sonorense, se obtuvieron concordancias mezcladas por lo que se sugiere la ocurrencia de un mosaico de distribuciones de especies mas complejo. En el Desierto Sonorense se encontr una tendencia general al incremento en cobetura arbrea correlaciorada con el incremento en precipitacin pluvial que se observa de norte a sur. Se describe brevemente el esquema de clasificacin utilizado en los mapas de vegetacin escala 1: 250,000 y 1: 1,000,000 editados por el gobierno Mexicano. Nuestras muestras fueron clasificadas subjectivamente de acuerdo al esquema Mexicano, y comparadas con los resultados del TWINSPAN utilizando una matriz de similitud. Los resultados de sta indican poca concordancia entre los dos esquemas de clasificacin. El esquema Mexicano, basado en formas de vida dominantes, es de escala ms amplia y coincide con las comunidades vegetales aqu descritas, slo en el noroeste de Baja California. Las unidades cartogrficas de los mapas no estn bien definidas y existen numerosas inconsistencias entre ellos. Sugerimos por tanto que estos mapas sean utilizados solamente como una gua general de las formas de vida vegetales de Baja California.
41425568|Boechera yorkii S. Boyd is described as a new species. It is a narrow endemic from the Last Chance Range in Death Valley National Park, Inyo County, California, apparently restricted to carbonate substrate. Boechera yorkii is distinguished from all other Boechera taxa in the Death Valley region by having reflexed flowers and yellow petals with brick-red tips (rarely all yellow or all brick-red) rather than all white, pinkish, purple, or some combination of these. Conservation concerns are limited as all currently known populations occur in a relatively inaccessible area, entirely within Death Valley National Park boundaries.
41425661|Plant biomass and seed production were quantified for Brassica tournefortii Gouan, Brassicaceae (Sahara mustard) from 3 sites spanning the Mojave and Sonoran deserts, in the Southwestern United States. We found strong linear relationships between plant biomass and seed production, with larger plants producing more seeds per plant (R = 0.93) and greater seed biomass per plant (R = 0.94). Both seed count (R = 0.93) and seed biomass (R = 0.90) were also greater in 0.25 m plots that had higher plant biomass. These results and the law of constant final yield indicate that biomass and seed production of individual Sahara mustard plants can be higher in plots with lower densities. These data suggest that control efforts that do not remove all individuals may reduce densities but inadvertently increase net seed production within treated areas.
41424330|The native grasslands of California have undergone great change since European contact but early accounts of Spanish and Anglo-Americans provide some information about their former condition. They suggest that the dry alluvial fans of the San Joaquin Valley, which account for 60 percent by area of California grasslands, were dominated by annual species and xerophytic shrubs. Perennial bunchgrasses were common only on certain well-watered floodplains.
41424972|Atriplex persistens, a new annual species from California is described and illustrated. The new species appears to be restricted to vernal pond areas that dry during the summer months. Although collected earlier in Merced, Stanislaus, and Tulare counties, California, it is apparently now restricted to two small populations in the Sacramento Wildlife Refuge south of Willows, Glenn County, California. It appears to be most closely related to the perennial species Atriplex fruticulosa.
41426322|Poa diaboli is described as a new and rare species of P. subsect. Madropoa from the coastal mountains of southern California. Its breeding system is like that in species of Poa previously said to be partially gynodioecious. However, in species of Poa with the corresponding breeding system syndrome, plants that are totally pistillate-flowered are rare and possibly only late-flowering individuals. We conclude that the breeding system of these species of Poa is better classified as a new subset of gynomonoecism, here termed sequentially adjusted gynomonoecism. Subtypes of gynomonoecism in the grasses, and in Poa, are outlined.
43289031|Datura arenicola, a new species originally collected and named by H. S. Gentry, is documented from Baja California Sur, Mexico. Following a study of Datura (Solanaceae) in western Mexico, the new species is placed in the new section Discola, with section Dutra emended and the revision of section Ceratocaulis proposed. Datura arenicola is found at elevations of 75-100 m on the eastern Vizcaino Desert, and is characterized by a short basal stem, decumbent habit, pubescent lobulate leaf, prismatic calyx, violet flower, and pendant globose spiny fruit, dehiscent in four parts. The new species is known from a very limited geographical area, 12 km across the range. A description of the Datura on the southern Baja California peninsula and a key to the comparable species are provided. Datura arenicola, una nueva especie recogida y nombrada originalmente por H. S. Gentry, es documentada de Baja California Sur, Mxico. Despus de un estudio de la Datura (Solanaceae) en Mxico occidental, la nueva especie se sita en la nueva seccin Discola, con la seccin Dutra enmendada y la revisin propuesta de la seccin Ceratocaulis. Datura arenicola se encuentra en las elevaciones de 75-100 metros en el este del desierto de Vizcano, y se caracteriza por un tallo bsico corto, un hbito recostado, una hoja lobulada pubescente, un cliz prismtico, una flor violeta, y una fruta espinosa globosa pendiente, dehiscente en cuatro porciones. La nueva especie se conoce en un rea geogrfica muy limitada de 12 kilmetros a travs de la gama. Una descripcin de la Datura en al sur de la pennsula de Baja California y una clave de las especies comparables se proveen.
41424327|Quercus cornelius-mulleri Nixon & Steele is described from southern California, U. S. A., and Baja California Norte, Mexico. Fused-stellate trichomes, which were previously known in Quercus only in the series Virentes, are reported for the new species.
41702544|Although most North American violet species (Viola, Violaceae) produce both showy chasmogamous (CH) flowers and inconspicuous cleistogamous (CL) flowers, some species lack the ability to manufacture the automatically self-pollinated CL flowers. Given that such flowers are considered beneficial as a back-up method of seed production when pollinators are scarce, the ecological and genetic implications of this absence remain unknown. In the current study, we focused on the California endemic violet, Viola pedunculata Torr. & A. Gray, which produces only CH flowers within its habitat in prairies and oak savannahs. Using microsatellites, we quantified the population genetic structure of three mainland populations and one island population in Southern California. We then used allozymes to estimate the outcrossing rate within a single population. Consistent with its production of CH flowers, levels of genetic variation were moderate to substantial within the species (A p = 6.66, H o  0.39), with low but significant structure detected ( = 0.11). Furthermore, the high outcrossing rate (0.86) suggests that insect pollinators are frequent enough to ensure adequate seed set. These values were similar to those of a morphologically similar stemmed violet, Viola pubescens Aiton, which produces both CH and CL flowers. Overall, these results are consistent with substantial outcrossing occurring in V. pedunculata through CH flowers, leading to gene flow among populations and potentially counteracting effects of genetic drift.
41425341|Of the 350+ species ascribed to Draba, nearly one quarter occur in the Intermountain Region of the western United States. Most of these Draba species have not been examined cytologically. This paper presents a total of 18 chromosome counts for 11 different taxa occurring in Utah, Wyoming, and Arizona.The chromosome numbers of D. juniperina, D. kassii, D. maguirei var. maguirei, D. rectifructa, D.sobolifera, D. spectabilis var. spectabilis, and D. subalpina are reported here for the first time. Counts differing from published reports are documented for D. asprella var.stelligera and D. cuneifolia var.cuneifolia. The taxonomic significance of the new chromosome counts is discussed for each species.Counts of n = 11 and n = 13 appear to be the first reports of those numbers in the genus, and they complete the continuous series of aneuploid base numbers extending from 8 to 16. It is suggested that the Intermountain West may be a center of diversity for aneuploid Draba, and that this assemblage of species provides a unique opportunity to study chromosomal evolution and speciation.
41425408|We investigated leaf morphology, CO  uptake, and the diurnal acid fluctuation of the montane species, Lewisia cotyledon Robinson. This species belongs to the Portulacaceae, a small family with ~ 425 species, which exhibit photosynthetic flexibility. Lewisia cotyledon was found in the Siskiyou Mts. in Josephine County, OR along with other montane species that utilize the CAM pathway. Plants were collected and returned to the greenhouse to study the photosynthetic metabolism of this species under both well-watered and drought conditions. Lewisia cotyledon showed primarily daytime CO gas exchange. Well-watered plants exhibited a significant diurnal acid fluctuation during the day. Phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) carboxylase (EC 4.1.1.31) activity was low in both control and water-stressed plants. Leaf anatomy showed a CAM-like spongy mesophyll tissue with palisade mesophyll tissue atypical of COplants. The percentage of leaf air space was 16.8%, which is characteristic of CAM and CAM-cycling plants. Water stress did not induce CAM metabolism. Our results suggest that: 1) L. cotyledon exhibited the CAM cycling pathway that would better enable the plant to withstand water stress and high light environments; 2) CAM is more widespread in the Portulacaceae than was previously thought; and 3) the evolution of the CAM pathway in the Portulacaceae appears to require the acquisition of both physiological and anatomical modifications.
41425439|We sampled 15 foxtail pine stands located in the central ridges of the Klamath Mountains in order to estimate conifer density, basal area, and importance values. We compared these estimates to previous research in the southern Sierra Nevada. Our analyses revealed a lack of interregional divergence of stand characteristics between the Klamath Mountains and southern Sierra Nevada despite subspecific designation and recently identified genetic divergence. Bray-Curtis ordination and hierarchical cluster analyses identified four stand types1) stands dominated by foxtail pine, 2) stands with foxtail pine and whitebark pine, 3) stands with foxtail pine and red fir, and 4) mixed stands with foxtail pine, red fir, and western white pine. Sub-regions within the Klamath Mountains differed in foxtail pine relative density, conifer diversity, and substrate heterogeneity. Further analyses of the Klamath Mountains stands identified an inverse relationship between foxtail pine importance and conifer diversity. Interactions between the mountain island effect and substrate heterogeneity were inferred as regulatory mechanisms for foxtail pine importance and conifer diversity, but further research is needed to determine causal relationships from our correlations.
41702396|Limited information exists regarding the impact of fire on annual plant composition in creosote bush scrub vegetation. The impact of recurrent fires on annual plants is even less understood. To investigate this matter, annual vegetation was sampled in a stand of creosote bush scrub in western Coachella Valley, California that had recently experienced two wildfires. The wildfires fragmented the once contiguous shrubland into three sections: unburned, once-burned, and twice-burned stands, all of which were separated by fuel breaks that contained each fire. For all three stands, annual plant cover and species richness were determined in the field, soil seed bank samples were collected and assayed in a glasshouse, and soil chemistry and physical properties were measured. We found that invasive annual grass cover was highest in the twice-burned stand and native annual plant cover was greatest in the unburned stand. Native annual species richness significantly decreased each time a stand burned resulting in low native annual plant diversity. Seed bank assays revealed that invasive annual grass germinants were orders of magnitude greater in the twice-burned stand compared with the other two stands. Lastly, soil total N, C, and soil pH were elevated in both burned stands. Overall, we found that recurrent fire can result in strong impacts to annual vegetation; however, the twiceburned stand was sampled only three years after burning while the once-burned stand was sampled 20 years after burning. Thus, longer-term fire effect studies plus replication with additional study sites are still needed to improve our understanding of how recurrent fire impacts annual plants.
41425154|A species list of 165 vascular plants was compiled for a 57 hectare park in the Sacramento River Delta. The park supports extensive, relatively undisturbed freshwater marsh habitat. Forty-four taxa occur in freshwater marsh, only 20% (9) of which are introduced. Overall, fifty percent of the taxa observed in the park are nonnative, with the majority occurring in ruderal areas and annual grasslands.
41424950|Antennaria soliceps Blake is a narrow endemic, known only from a small area of the Spring Mountains, Clark County, southern Nevada. The Spring Mountains are an isolated biome harboring many endemics, including A. soliceps. Populations of A. soliceps are found on a limestone talus ridge, which extends both above and below treeline for six km east southeast of Charleston Peak. This duodecaploid species is gynoecious, and reproduction is achieved through agamospermy and stoloniferous growth. Enzyme electrophoresis was used to assess the genetic diversity of five populations surveyed at one-mile intervals along the ridge. It appears that A. soliceps possesses only one electrophoretic genotype and, therefore, is a single genetic individual. Antennaria soliceps is hypothesized to be related to A. aromatica on the basis of habitat and morphological characteristics and to A. parvifolia on the basis of cytological and other morphological features. Establishment of A. soliceps probably occurred in the Pleistocene during which moister and cooler conditions allowed the migration of northern plant taxa to this area.
43288623|This paper offers a modern take on wild edible plants of the tanoak, Notholithocarpus densiflorus (Hook. & Arn.) Manos, Cannon & S. H. Oh (Fagaceae), ecosystem with instructions for gathering materials and preparing foods. We review the collection and processing of acorns, bay nuts, and foliage for herbal teas, along with specific recipes.
41425853|Cape ivy (Delairea odorata Lem.) was found to occur throughout coastal California and southern Oregon. It was most abundant in urbanized coastal areas such as the San Francisco Bay, and Santa Cruz, Monterey, San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara and Los Angeles counties. Field observations showed Cape ivy to occur in seven different broad community types, including both riparian and nonriparian areas. Of the two morphological forms, the exstipulate type occurred more frequently at the northern and southern ends of the distribution, and the stipulate type was more common in the middle of the distribution range, from southern Humboldt County to Los Angeles County. Only 21 locations were found that supported both stipulate and exstipulate plants, and they were most often located in urbanized coastal areas. Analysis with GIS determined the elevation, temperature and precipitation ranges that Cape ivy occupies in California. The analysis indicated that Cape ivy occurs at elevations between 0 and 891 meters, annual mean temperatures between 10.5 and 17.7 C, and in areas with annual precipitation ranging between 232 and 2270 mm. An overlay analysis of Cape ivy locations using GIS was also compared with the California Natural Diversity Database sensitive species location information to determine which species might be threatened by Cape ivy expansion. Three sensitive animals and five sensitive plants were expected to have > 40% of their occurrences with a 500 m buffer to Cape ivy infestations.
41425856|Astragalus jaegerianus Munz (the Lane Mountain milkvetch) is a federally endangered species that exists in only four fragmented populations within and adjacent to the U. S. Army's National Training Center, Fort Irwin, CA. Since 1999, our monitored A. jaegerianus populations have consistently declined, and are now 12% of their previous size. A number of subpopulations are in danger of local extinction. The decline of A. jaegerianus has occurred simultaneously with severe drought in the Mojave Desert. These drought conditions began in 1999 and are predicted to continue for decades, or may continue indefinitely under warmer temperature conditions projected by global climate changetype drought. Our results suggest that drought has direct and indirect affects on A. jaegerianus by killing or degrading its host shrubs. Astragalus jaegerianus host shrubs have decreased in shrub volume and cover by roughly 10 percent since the onset of drought, and shrub mortality has been high. Our results show that canopy condition has a profound affect on the microclimate within host shrubs. Furthermore, our results show a significant increase in survival of A. jaegerianus among host plants with more intact canopies. These results support our study hypothesis that drought-related changes to host plant canopies affect A. jaegerianus survival, and represent an indirect negative effect of long-term drought on A. jaegerianus populations.
41425680|Chromosomes in excess of the basic complement have been known for 100 years. Nevertheless, in most species the role of supernumerary or B chromosomes remains unknown or speculative. Here, I describe the frequency, distribution, and transmission to progeny of supernumerary chromosomes in two widely distributed western North American polyploid complexes. Meiotic analyses of microsporocytes found one to four supernumerary chromosomes in 14% of the 293 populations examined in Eriophyllum lanatum, and one, two, or six supernumeraries in 15% of the 133 populations examined in E. confer tiflorum var. confertiflorum. Most supernumerary chromosomes were in the size range of A chromosomes, indistinguishable from As, and did not pair with them. Artificial hybridizations showed that the supernumerary chromosomes were transmitted by either parent. Populations with supernumerary chromosomes were nonrandomly distributed in both species. Intervarietal or interspecific hybridization may be responsible for some of their nonrandom distribution in E. lanatum. Supernumerary chromosomes may be involved in the dysploid chromosome numbers in Eriophyllum.
41424478|Current theory in plant ecology attempts to explain which environmental factors and plant characteristics are particularly important in determining plant distribution. In central coastal California, an introduced grass species and a native shrub species exploit similar disturbed habitats. However, investigation showed that seedlings of the shrub, Baccharis pilularis subsp. consangunea (DC) C. B. Wolf, suffered from interference with seedlings of the grass, Bromus mollis L., and that the effects of the interference increased under dry conditions. Furthermore, these results seem to be related to characteristics of the seeds of the two species. This information is useful in explaining grassland-brushland relationships in a particularly complex vegetation pattern.
41426264|Atriplex subtilis, sp. nov., is a newly described species from south-central California. It is a short-statured, fine-textured, diploid annual, with opposite leaves and branches. Its leaves are small (ca 2-4 mm long, 1.5-3 mm wide), cordate and sessile. It is morphologically most like A. depressa Jepson but differs from A. depressa in several characteristics, including shape of fruiting bracts (deltoid instead of rhomboid), position and arrangement of fruiting-bract appendages (both sides instead of adaxial side only), more slender stems, and longer internodes. A. subtilis is confined to south-central California, mostly in Tulare, Fresno, Kern, and Kings counties; A. depressa occurs in more northerly latitudes, primarily in Glenn and Yolo counties.
41426369|Castilleja victoriae is described from the vicinity of southwestern Victoria, southern Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada and from San Juan Co., Washington, U.S.A. It is an annual member of subg. Colacus (Jeps.) T.I. Chuang & Heckard, sect. Oncorhynchus (Lehm.) T.I. Chuang & Heckard, formerly placed in the genus Orthocarpus Nutt. It is apparently most closely related to either Castilleja ambigua Hook. & Arn. or Castilleja tenuis (A. Heller) T.I. Chuang & Heckard. The new species differs primarily in its uniformly dull reddish-brown floral bracts and calyces, bicolored and unspotted corollas, and restrictive habitat requirements. Several historic populations are extirpated, and of the three extant populations only one consists of enough individuals in a protected location to be considered reasonably secure. We advocate additional surveys of its limited habitat and conservation measures to protect the species.
41425589|In 1853 the Kaweah River delta (western Tulare County) was one of California's richest natural habitats, the so-called Giant Oak Forest its leading feature. By 1920 this unique formation was completely cleared, drained, and leveled for intensive agricultural use. We present a reconstruction of the 1853 vegetation pattern based on U. S. General Land Office survey notes.
41425414|Saltugilia latimeri, a new species of Polemoniaceae, is endemic to dry, rocky to sandy slopes and foothills, primarily in San Bernardino and Riverside Counties, California. Saltugilia latimeri superficially resembles S. australis and has, until now, been considered conspecific with this taxon based on the small corolla size shared by both species. The two species differ in several morphological characters including stature, corolla throat coloration and exertion, and degree of glandularity.
41424638|Soliva sessilis, S. pterosperma, and S. daucifolia have been distinguished from each other on achenal characteristics and habitat, and have been listed as members of the naturalized flora of California. Examination of over 310 collections from California documented a continuum of achene morphology and an indiscriminate distribution of morphs that form a single taxonomie species. Synonymy of S. sessilis also is extended to include S. neglecta and S. valdiviana.
41424624|Diploid (2n = 18) and tetraploid (2n = 36) races of Grayia brandegei differ in phenotype and geographic distribution. Diploids have narrow, linear leaves and mostly are restricted to south-central Utah and northeastern Arizona. Tetraploids are larger statured, bear larger, more oval leaves and mostly occur in isolated populations in northeastern Utah, south-central Wyoming, eastern Colorado, and northwestern New Mexico. Because of their morphological and distributional differences, the tetraploid form is designated as a new variety, Grayia brandegei var plummeri.
43288989|California beach plants are capable of dealing with harsh conditions, but little is known about how this community responds to human-induced impacts. The objective of this paper is to determine if beaches experiencing higher degrees of impacts from trampling have more cover of two common plant species thought to grow particularly well under difficult conditions, Ambrosia chamissonis (Less.) Greene and Cakile maritima Scop. Seventeen sites were sampled between 2007 and 2009 with one meter wide belt transects and the sites were divided into three groups; high (people walk anywhere on the beach), medium (foot traffic is restricted to trails), and low impact levels (little to no access). Cover of all species present were recorded. Cover of A. chamissonis is statistically higher on beaches with a high level of impact than low and medium levels. Cakile maritima cover is statistically higher on beaches with medium levels than those with low or high levels of impact. However, the total cover of all species is not significantly different between any level of impact.
41425669|Two hornworts, five liverworts, and 24 mosses are reported new for the state of Nevada. The phylum Anthocerotophyta as represented by the families Anthocerotaoeae and Notothyladaceae, the liverwort families Antheliaceae, Cleveaceae, Fossombroniaceae, and Pseudolepicoleaceae, and the moss family Bruchiaceae are all new for the state. Genera new for Nevada include: Anthelia, Anthoceros, Athalamia, Blepharostoma, Bruchia, Codriophorus, Conostomum, Ditrichum, Fossombronia, Gemmabryum, Phaeoceros, Ptychostomum, and Rosulabryum. A new treatment of the widespread Bryum caespiticium Hedwig is adopted for North America, with the segregates Bryum badium (Bridel) W. P. Schimper and Bryum kunzei Hornschuch reported for the first time for North America.
41425485|A population of Eschscholzia rhombipetala, a species that, until several years ago, was thought to be extinct, occurs in and around a hillside slump (small landslide) in the Corral Hollow area of the Altamont Hills of California. Here we describe the population and co-occurring vegetation from a five-year study. A second population was found fewer than 3 km away from this population in spring of 2002. Where possible, data from both populations are reported. Both populations occur on clay soil like the only other known population in the Carrizo Plain. Population numbers ranged from 9 to 285 plants. Eschscholzia rhombipetala presence was negatively correlated with exotic grass and thatch cover and positively correlated with bare ground and exotic forb cover. Plant height predicted number of reproductive units (buds plus flowers plus seed capsules) per plant (P < 0.004) and seed capsule length was also highly correlated with plant height (P < 0.001). Plant performance was significantly different among microhabitats, and plants in the active slump tended to do better than those elsewhere. The population expansion upslope into grassland areas in 2002 may indicate the presence of a seed bank for this small-seeded annual, and its association with bare ground and greater performance in the slump may indicate that some disturbance is necessary for population maintenance.
41425664|Tree ring fire-scars in Sequoiadendron giganteum (giant sequoia) stands record a high frequency, low intensity, prehistoric fire regime. Difficulties achieving short prehistoric fire return intervals with prescribed burns at a S. giganteum stand in Calaveras Big Trees State Park, California, currently characterized by dense tree cover with little understory vegetation due to over a century of fire suppression, suggest that a prehistoric grass understory provided fine fuel required for frequent fire spread. We used phytolith analysis to test this hypothesis. Phytoliths, microscopic silica bodies found in many plants but produced in large quantities with distinctive morphotypes in grasses, are preserved for thousands of years in the soil. Soils under vegetation with extensive prehistoric grass cover retain a high concentration of grass phytoliths regardless of historic vegetation changes. Phytoliths were extracted from soil samples taken from pits dug at 14 plots throughout a S. giganteum stand in the South Grove Natural Preserve. Soil phytolith weight for most plots, currently without grass cover and comprising most of the stand, was less than 0.10%, consistent with reported values for forests with no grass in the understory. Soil phytolith weights for ridge-top plots and plots near the stream channel were significantly higher, suggesting localized areas with sparse grass cover. The hypothesis that there was substantial prehistoric grass cover in this S. giganteum stand was rejected.
41425258|The vegetation history of coastal southern California is incompletely known, due primarily to a lack of suitable sites for preservation of subfossil organic remains, and destruction of sites by recent human impact. One coastal site, along Las Flores Creek in San Diego County, has yielded a pollen record, enabling us to reconstruct vegetation and climatic changes for the last ca. 4300 radiocarbon years. Pollen from riparian plants, including Typha (cattail) and Cyperaceae (sedges), are common between ca. 4000 and 2600 years ago. Cupressus, or a closely related tree, may have grown along this riparian corridor, suggesting formerly larger range for this plant. By ca. 2600 years ago, a vegetation mosaic including elements of the coastal sage, chaparral, and grassland communities, were established near the site, persisting until the introduction of exotic weed and tree species within the last century. The pollen record from Las Flores Creek provides information on the environment of the Native American population during the Late Holocene. Local plant species undoubtedly provided resources for seasonal occupation of the coast, which supplemented extensive shellfish collecting, especially after ca. 2000 years ago. An increase in pollen from the Chenopodiaceae at that time may correspond to local human-caused disturbances.
41425004|In the Sierra Nevada, flowers of Gentiana newberryi Gray were significantly larger and produced more ovules at Little Valley (2000 m) and Forestdale Divide (2580 m) than at Frog Lakes (3120 m). The mean number of seeds produced at Little Valley was significantly larger. Predation reduced seed set at the higher elevation sites. Herbivores removed 37.9% of the flowers at Frog Lakes. Predispersal seed predators (Diptera larvae) consumed all of the seeds in 64.3% of the capsules at Forestdale Divide and 3.0% at Frog Lakes. Later blooming flowers experienced less prdation but risked permanent snow cover before the seeds matured.
41424697|Maritime chaparral of Burton Mesa, California was sampled to determine trends in species richness, vegetation structure, and composition after fire. Species cover is estimated in 75 100 m 2 plots distributed among 28 sites that range from 1 to 50+ years since burning. Twenty-eight plots were located under coast live oaks (Quercus agrifolio) that are scattered among the chaparral shrubs, and 47 plots located in surrounding chaparral. Vegetation data were analyzed and related to stand age, soil depth, texture, and pH, and distance from the coast using Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) and Canonical Correlation Analysis (CCA). Species richness is highest during the first 3-5 years after fire, but is more strongly related to total evergreen shrub cover than stand age. Physiognomic trends in chaparral samples are similar to those reported for other chaparral types. Oak understories differ from chaparral in that annuals decline more rapidly during the first 10 years after fire, and subshrubs are not as important. The composition of the herb layer under oaks is associated with stand age and distance from the coast. In chaparral samples, composition of perennials is related to stand age, distance from the coast, depth to a subsoil pan, soil pH, and soil texture. The composition of annuals and biennials in chaparral is related to stand age, canopy coverage by evergreen shrubs, depth to a subsoil pan, and distance from coast.
41424625|Allium shevockii, a new species from the crest of the southern Sierra Nevada on the Kern Plateau in Kern County, California is described and illustrated. The new species shows morphological similarities to A. atrorubens, A. fimbriatum, and A. montcola in the A. sanbornii alliance. It differs from these species in its obovate to oblanceolate perianth segments that are distinctly reflexed distally, and its long threadlike rhizomes that terminate in bulblets in addition to those produced at the base of the parent bulb.
41425714|Despite the biological, social, and physical challenges that exist in urban creek restorations, there are opportunities to effectively involve local residents in ecological rehabilitation projects. An urban riparian restoration project along Strawberry Creek (Berkeley, CA) began with the goal of removing exotic vegetation and restoring native plant coverage. However, through the involvement of local high school and college students, the project accomplished an additional goal of educating the local community about restoration and conservation. Undergraduate students at the University of California, Berkeley conducted pre-restoration vegetation surveys of species richness and cover in order to assess initial species composition at the restoration site. Berkeley High School students, under the guidance of UC Berkeley graduate student mentors, removed exotic vegetation from an 800 m area of the riparian zone and replaced exotics with over 500 individual native plants. Post-restoration vegetation surveys found that this project succeeded in reducing the cover of exotic vegetation and increasing native species richness. A smaller area adjacent to the student plantings was more intensively maintained by the University of California, Berkeley Office of Environment, Health & Safety and had a higher survival rate among the natives planted. Student attitudinal surveys indicated that students' involvement in the restoration activities increased their awareness and appreciation of the creek's value and educated them about scientific concepts of restoration and conservation. In spite of the various challenges of coordinating several interest groups, the involvement of local students has the potential to increase the likelihood that the project will succeed in the long term, especially if such involvement signals greater appreciation for the creek habitat.
41425898|A newly recognized endemic species, Brodiaea matsonii, is described. This highly localized species is restricted to a single extended population along Sulphur Creek, in Redding, Shasta County, California. Brodiaea matsonii is a diploid species (n = 6) closely related to the more widespread B. minor, a polyploid species (n = 12, 24), from which it differs by the slightly smaller pink flowers and by its habitat parameters. Brodiaea matsonii grows from cracks and crevices in bedrock along an intermittent stream within foothill woodland.
41424406|Abutilon subsect. Oligocarpae is raised to sectional status. It was originally established when Abutilon was a section of the genus Sida. Within this section, the identities of Abutiln pringlei and A. incanum have long been confused. Abutilon pringlei proves to be a synonym of A. incanum, which grows in the Sonoran Desert and Hawaii. The species in Texas commonly known as A. incanum is properly named A. fruticosum, and does not extend into the Sonoran Desert. A key to the species of section Oligocarpae is given, along with full species descriptions. Abutilon mucronatum is described as new from western Mexico. It is distinctive because of its mucronate-tipped petals, glandular indumentum, and pungent odor.
41424329|Angelica californica Jepson emend. DiTomaso, previously included within Angelica tomentosa Watson, is re-established as a distinct species from the Sierra Nevada foothills and the Coast Ranges of northern California. Illustrations, a distribution map, and several distinguishing characters are provided.
41424679|Review of morphological attributes and geographic distributions has led to revised circumscriptions for Erigeron eatonii and allied taxa, including recognition of one new taxon (Erigeron eatonii var. lavandulus) and re-establishment of an older one (E. sonnei).
41425384|The moss component for the bryoflora for the City and County of San Francisco contains 128 species representing over 22 percent of the California moss flora. Several mosses are suspected as being introduced since the mid-1900s and have subsequently become established and naturalized. A large component of the moss flora of San Francisco represents cosmopolitan species having wide geographical distributions. All but twelve of the 42 species based on the historic Bolander moss collections attributed to San Francisco from the 1860s were relocated during this study. Sixty-five mosses are reported for the first time from the City and County of San Francisco. Of these, the rare species Triquetrella californica (Lesq.) Grout is also documented for San Francisco. Bryum pyriferum Crundw. & H. Whiten., Campylopus pyriformis (F. Schultz) Bridel, Heterocladium dimorphum (Brid.) Schimp. in B. S. G., Sematophyllum adnatum (Michaux) Britton and Zygodon menziesii (Schwaegr.) Arnott are reported new for California and Zygodon menziesii is reported new for North America.
41426238|This study identifies the different plant communities and describes the forest stand structure in 2400 hectares of the upper Raider and Hornback Creek basins on the eastern slope of the South Warner Mountains in Modoc County, California. Major plant communites were estimated using aerial photography and ground reconnaissance. The predominant community in the study area was found to provide an example of a large contiguous stand (575 ha) of Abies concolor var. lowiana at the northeastern extreme of its distribution in California. Community structure was obtained from the point-centered quarter method and nested quadrats. Other plant communities identified were: Mountain Mahogany Scrub, Montane Meadows, Subalpine Sagebrush Scrub, Northern Juniper Woodland, Big Sagebrush Scrub, Whitebark Pine Forest, Washoe Pine-White Fir Forest, and Riparian Forest.
41426280|The general field of systematic biology is an inclusive discipline that has taken great steps forward in the last two decades. New theories and methods have been developed for using character data to reconstruct phylogenetic relationships and thus improve classifications. Copious new sources of character data have become available from the molecular level. New analytical methods have been developed for using phylogenies to quantify biogeographic, ecological, and evolutionary patterns and test hypotheses about process. These new developments need to be integrated with traditional strengths in systematics such as collections-based research, floristics, and morphological/developmental studies, through greater communication and collaboration. Because of its unique geology and biology, its long and intense history of study, and its outstanding botanical institutions, California can serve as an ideal model for a newly integrated approach to systematic biology.
41425135|A chain of narrow basins in the Transition Zone lies across central Arizona at the northern edge of the Sonoran Desert. They contain recently exposed late Tertiary lacustrine deposits which are infertile compared to surrounding zonal soils, forming a sharp edaphic contrast. The dominant Sonoran Desert woody species, Larrea tridentata (creosotebush) and Cercidium microphyllum (foothill palo verde), are excluded from the infertile lacustrine soils. The escape from competition for soil moisture allows an opening for disjuncts, relicts, and endemics to survive, in many cases the taxa's only occurrences in the Sonoran Desert. Floristic analysis shows these taxa to be from noncontiguous floristic areas, the Colorado Plateau to the north and the present day Chihuahuan Desert to the southeast. Lotus mearnsii var. equisolensis, a new variety endemic to one of the basins, is described.
41425148|Habitat characterization can be helpful in assigning questionable populations to a specific taxon when distinguishing morphological characteristics are obscure or debated by authorities. Such a classification problem arises in the case of the autumn buttercup, Ranunculus aestivalis (Benson) Van Buren and Harper. This problem has special significance since the taxon is listed as endangered (R. acriformis var. aestivalis). This paper describes and compares habitats associated with the autumn buttercup and selected relatives within the R. occidentalis complex and with adventive populations of R. acris in Utah. Two populations of R. occidentalis (Nevada County, California), 3 populations of R. acriformis var. acriformis (Emery and Sanpete counties, Utah), 3 populations of R. acriformis var. montanensis (Lincoln County, Wyoming), 3 populations of R. acris (introduced from Europe and now growing wild in Rich and Cache counties, Utah) and 2 populations of the endangered species, R. aestivalis (endemic to Garfield County, Utah) were sampled. Analysis of vegetal and physical environments as well as tissue chemistry associated with these taxa show that they can be separated on the basis of habitat characteristics and/or tissue chemistry. Populations of R. occidentalis and R. aestivalis are widely separated from other taxa in principal components diagrams, whereas the two varieties of R. acriformis occur close together in statistical space. Ranunculus acris populations were broadly scattered in the diagrams. Characteristics of habitats associated with these taxa differ in many ways. These results parallel those of our previous molecular study involving the same taxa and support elevation of the autumn buttercup to species level. The study provides information about the habitat of the autumn buttercup that should be useful to managers responsible for its recovery.
41425222|The grasslands of California are dominated by non-native annual grasses primarily of Mediterranean origin. Because replacement of native species occurred before extensive botanical study, the original extent and composition of native vegetation is unknown. In 1920, the influential ecologist F. E. Clements concluded that widely scattered patches of perennial bunchgrass were 'relicts' of a once vast perennial grassland. He proposed that the pre-European vegetation of the Central Valley, the valleys of southern California, and many areas of the Coast Ranges were originally dominated by the perennial grass Nassella pulchra. Although this hypothesis has become widely accepted, analysis of the data indicates that, especially for central and southern California, this hypothesis is probably incorrect. Clements made a number of mistakes including misidentification of important taxa, over-reliance on his putative ' relicts', misunderstanding of the role of fire in grassland communities, and taking other people's work out of context. Alternative hypotheses have existed for almost as long as Clements' original hypothesis, but these have been generally ignored both by Clements and by many subsequent researchers in the field. There is a growing body of evidence to suggest that many of the areas dominated today by non-native annual grasses may formerly have been dominated by different vegetation types such as oak woodland, chaparral, or coastal scrub.
41425490|The current knowledge of the goldfield genus Lasthenia is discussed, emphasizing the possible role of edaphic factors in the divergence of this predominantly Californian genus. Lasthenia species occupy a wide array of edaphic habitats ranging from serpentine outcrops to salt flats to guano deposits, thriving under specific ion and osmotic conditions that are uninhabitable for the vast majority of species. Studies show that ion accumulation and sequestration are common strategies used to counter osmotic effects, common to most habitats harboring Lasthenia species. Inter and intra-specific variation in tolerance to edaphic conditions has been observed in closely related yet reproductively isolated taxa, suggesting that edaphic factors may have set the stage for the diversification of this genus. Lasthenia provides numerous opportunities to examine the link between adaptation, reproductive isolation and speciation.
41425151|A new species of Achnatherum, A. wallowaensis Maze and K. A. Robson of central and northeastern Oregon is closely related to A. hendersonii (Vasey) Barkworth (= Oryzopsis hendersonii) of central Washington and Oregon but differs from this species primarily in its lax inflorescence with drooping spikelets, A. hendersonii having stiff inflorescences with erect spikelets. Other differences in vegetative and reproductive features occur between these two taxa with A. wallowaensis tending to have longer, but thinner, parts. The two species show different relationships among their descriptive variables and are separated by a principal components analysis. Like its close relative, A. wallowaensis occupies small scattered areas of shallow, rocky soils that support a vegetation of small, distantly spaced plants.
41426304|Through their effects on seed germination, accumulation of plant litter and temperature may play a role in the invasion of coastal California grasslands by exotic annual and perennial grasses. Germination of native and exotic grasses was examined as a function of both litter cover and temperature. When species were grouped by life form (native perennial grass vs. exotic perennial grass), exotic species germinated at consistently higher rates than native species. Individual species, however, varied in their response to litter addition. While one exotic perennial species, Festuca arundinacea, maintained germination rates significantly higher than native species' across three levels of litter cover, the other exotic perennial species, Holcus lanatus, showed no advantage over native species in the presence of a heavy litter layer. Exotic annual grasses had significantly higher germination rates than native perennial or exotic perennial grasses in laboratory growth chambers. Decreasing the average fall temperature in laboratory growth chambers by 5C significantly reduced the germination percentages of Bromus diandrus and F. arundinacea relative to other species. The remaining two exotic annual grasses, Avena barbata and Vulpia myuros, were consistently the first seeds to germinate. Grouping species according to life form masked germination responses of individual species that otherwise provide insight into the potential role of germination conditions in community composition of coastal grasslands in California.
41425842|Fluctuations in plant resource availability are hypothesized to promote exotic plant invasion by allowing propagules already present in an area a chance to successfully compete for unused resources. To examine the relationship between resource enrichment and exotic species invasion, we used selective logging canopy gaps over a range of sizes (56 m to > 1500 m) in a redwood forest (Santa Cruz County, CA) as a surrogate for disturbance intensity and level of pulsed resource enrichment. Measurements of abiotic conditions in gaps ca. 10 yr after logging suggest light is the primary difference in current resource availability, though a pulse of light and nutrients likely occurred at the time of gap formation. Exotic species richness andrelative cover increased significantly as gap size increased. In a separate manipulative experiment, we compared understory plant composition between artificially shaded and unshaded plots in 2.5-year-old logging gaps. Shaded plots had a lower proportion of exotic species than did adjacent, unshaded plots, showing that light is a critical resource for exotic species in redwood forest habitats. Taken together, these results support the view that both physical disturbance and increased availability of scarce resources contribute to a community's susceptibility to invasion and suggest a linear relationship between the size of logging gaps and the magnitude of exotic species invasion.
43289027|Principal component analyses (PCA) and principal coordinate analyses (PCoA) suggest that Senegalia berlandieri (Benth.) Britton & Rose hybridizes with S. crassifolia (A. Gray) Britton & Rose, the resulting hybrid being S.  anisophylla (S. Watson) Britton & Rose. This uncommon hybrid is reported from the states of Coahuila, Durango, and San Luis Potos, Mexico. In addition, PCA and PCoA suggest that S. berlandieri hybridizes with S. reniformis (Benth.) Britton & Rose. The resulting hybrid, S. berlandieri  reniformis, also is infrequent, being restricted to the state of Quertaro, Mexico. The morphological features of both probable Fi-hybrids are highly variable. The backcrosses to each respective parent were also examined. The hybrid between S. berlandieri and S. reniformis (Senegalia  zamudii Seigler, Ebinger, & Glass) is described.
41424228|Hedeoma todsenii is described from two populations in the San Andres Mountains of southcentral New Mexico. It is morphologically similar to Hedeoma apiculatum.
41424332|A 2.1-m core from Laguna de las Trancas, a marsh atop a landslide in northern Santa Cruz County, California, has yielded a pollen record for the period between about 30,000 B. P. and roughly 5000 B. P. Three pollen zones are recognized. The earliest is characterized by high frequencies of pine pollen and is correlated with a mid-Wisconsinan interstade of the mid-continent. The middle zone contains high frequencies of both pine and fir (Abies, probably A. grandis) pollen and is correlated with the last full glacial interval (upper Wisconsinan). The upper zone is dominated by redwood (Sequoia) pollen and represents latest Pleistocene to middle Holocene. The past few thousand years are not represented in the core. The pollen evidence indicates that during the full glacial period the mean annual temperature at the site was about 2C to 3C lower than it is today. We attribute this small difference to the stabilizing effect of marine upwelling on the temperature regime in the immediate vicinity of the coast. Precipitation may have been about 20 percent higher as a result of longer winter wet seasons.
41426305|We present a detailed floristic study of coastal terrace prairies in central California that are poorly described in California's ecological literature. Definitive native grasses include Danthonia californica Bolander, Nassella pulchra (A. Hitchc.) Barkworth, and Festuca rubra L. Definitive native forbs include Baccharis pilularis DC, Viola, Sidalcea, Cammisonia, and Acaena. Species richness in the coastal prairies (1 m) averaged 22.6, nearly twice that of relatively diverse serpentine California grasslands, and other North American grasslands. We sampled 33 coastal prairies and found 340 plant species including 258 forbs. Nearby plant communities (Monterey Pine, Coastal Scrub) had much lower species diversity at all spatial scales studied. Three distinct coastal grasslands, each associated with a land form, can be defined by distinct species composition; coastal terraces, uplifted "bald hills," and inland ridges. We compared 29 coastal terrace prairies (those without tree or shrubs) to 80 inland Nassella prairies with regard to 27 floristic variables (cover, number of natives/exotics, perennials/annuals, grasses/forbs) along a gradient from interior-coastal valley and from north to south along the coast. Coastal terrace prairies were invaded by exotics, but far less so than inland Nassella prairies. Species diversity (0.1 ha) and total cover were positively correlated. Relative cover of exotic species was negatively correlated with total cover, based on all sites. Number of exotic species was positively correlated with species richness in inland Nassella prairies but not in coastal terrace prairies. Canonical correspondence analysis indicated that coastal terrace prairies with higher cover of non-native species had reduced total cover and/or reduced diversity of native perennial species of grasses and forbs. Native perennial grasslands, including coastal terrace prairies, are rare and have been eliminated by development along the narrow corridor of land between the sea and the inland ridges of central, coastal California. If protection of biodiversity is a management goal in land use plans, coastal grasslands should be protected as biodiversity "hotspots".
41425435|Eriogonum ovalifolium var. monarchense is a new variety discovered on a limestone formation in the southern Sierra Nevada. It is only known from one population in the Kings River drainage basin. It is morphologically similar to E. ovalifolium var. vineum; an endangered species found on limestone outcrops in the San Bernardino Mountains. The habit of the two varieties is different primarily in the angle that the flowering stems arise from the base.
41424521|Three lines of evidence are evaluated to determine the varietal relationships of southern California white fir. Based on nine seedling traits studied by Hamrick and Libby, southern California populations first cluster with those from Arizona and Utah, then later cluster with those from northern California. Based on relative amounts of camphene and 3-carene, three equivalent chemical races were found by Smedman et al. (1969) and Zavarin et al. (1975). A greater similarity of the southern California race to the Rocky Mountain race is rather tenuous and depends on the significance of rather small differences in four sesquiterpenes. Based on leaf morphology of adult trees (this study), two broad groups were defined. Northern California populations have long leaves with an emarginate to rounded tip, few stomatal rows on the upper surface, and a definite twist at the leaf base. The other populations have more stomatal rows on the upper leaf surface, acute tips, and very little to no twist at the base. They are distributed from Colorado-New Mexico with long, thin, narrow leaves, to Baja California with short, thick, wide leaves. The southern California populations largely fall within the latter group, are clearly more similar to the Rocky Mountain populations, and hence are referable to Abies concolor var. concolor.
41424628|Axiniphyllum durangense from southern Durango, Mexico, is related to A. corymbosum of Guerrero and adjacent Oaxaca, but is distinguished readily by its rhombic-ovate leaves and much longer outer involucral bracts.
41426308|Blepharizonia plumosa (Kellogg) E. Greene, also known as the big tarplant, is a rare, summer-flowering, annual tarplant found in California grasslands. Although rare throughout its range, B. plumosa is numerous at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) experimental test facility, Site 300. We conducted a common garden experiment, a reciprocal transplant study, and a laboratory germination study to compare B. plumosa to its more common relative, B. laxa Greene (which is rare at Site 300), and to gather data on the basic biology of B. plumosa in preparation for a possible mitigation project. Three populations of B. plumosa were compared to a single population of B. laxa. Little population differentiation was found in B. plumosa in terms of transplant success. Blepharizonia plumosa expresses much more extreme dimorphism with respect to seed germination: ray seeds have low germination percentages (< 4%) compared to disc seeds (50-78%, P < 0.017). Blepharizonia laxa did not show any significant differences between ray (18%) and disc (17%) seed germination (P > 0.05). Blepharizonia plumosa produced three times more ray seeds than disc seeds (ratio: 3.2), while B. laxa produced little over half as many ray seeds as disc seeds (ratio: 0.65). Blepharizonia plumosa plants grown from ray seeds have a lower biomass accumulation (< 5 g per plant compared to 28 g per plant for B. laxa, P < 0.017) and none survived to flower production. Among ray-derived B. laxa plants, 70% survived to flower production. This difference in ray seed production and performance points to a possible basis for ecological differences between the two species. Until the mechanisms controlling dormancy are more clearly understood, only disc seeds should be used in the creation of new populations of B. plumosa.
41424848|Schoenolirion Torrey and Hastingsia S. Watson are both representatives of a distinctly North American subtribe of lilies, the Chlorogalinae. The two species groups have been considered to be congeneric in a number of previous publications, but a comparison of morphological traits provides strong support for their generic separation. Comprehensive descriptions of the two genera are provided, along with a synopsis of species included in each.
41425895|Understanding the natural patterns of regeneration following human disturbance is essential for effective restoration and management of second-growth forests. Despite their unique ecological character, little is known about these patterns in Sequoia sempervirens (D. Don) Endl. (Coast Redwood) forests. We examined the composition and structure of naturally regenerating stands with 360 randomly located sample plots across a chronosequence of five replicated age-classes (18 to 127 yr) and three old-growth reference sites. Results indicate a progression of stand characteristics towards old-growth conditions, with several measures reaching old-growth equivalence within the timeframe of the chronosequence. Stand density, canopy cover, and species richness reached old-growth equivalence within 41-80 yr; Shannon-diversity reached old-growth equivalence between 80-100 yr; and the density of redwood seedlings and shrub cover reached old-growth equivalence between 100130 yr. Basal area, herb cover, and the relative dominance of S. sempervirens progressed toward, but did not reach, old-growth equivalence. Size-class analysis indicated an increase in the density of large diameter trees, with no change in the density of smaller size-classes after forty yr. Coast redwood associated understory species were favored on the older sites with the cover of Calypso bulbosa (L.) Oakes, Trillium ovatum Pursh, and Viola sempervirens Greene reaching old-growth equivalence, while Iris douglasiana Herb., Tiarella trifoliate L., and Achlys triphylla (Sm.) DC. did not. No non-native species were recorded in stands older than 60 yr. We conclude that coast redwood forests are resilient to human disturbance, though some old-growth characteristics may require more than a century to develop.
41425146|When the Malaspina expedition visited Monterey in 1791, Tade Haenke collected a few seaweeds which eventually were entrusted to C. A. Agardh at Lund for study. of 28 species listed by Agardh in 1825 for the entire itinerary of the expedition, 10 were considered new. Two additional new species were described on the basis of Haenke collections by J. G. Agardh in 1847. The provenance and taxonomic placement of some of these new species have remained uncertain. A study of Haenke's collections at Prague (PR) and in the Agardh herbarium at Lund (LD) has clarified much of this uncertainty. The only name in current use for a California seaweed that is affected by the Haenke species is Pelvetia fastigiata (J. Agardh) De Toni. Its type was collected on the Monterey Peninsula by David Douglas and published as Fucus fastigiatus J. Agardh 1841 (a later homonym), but established nomenclaturally as Fucodium fastigiatum J. Agardh 1848. It is referable to forma gracilis rather than to the biologically typical form. Haenke collected the latter, which was published as Fucus compressus C. Agardh 1824 (also a later homonym), but established nomenclaturally as Fucodium compressum J. Agardh 1848. Of the two names with equal priority, Pelvetia compressa (J. Agardh) De Toni is herein applied to the biologically typical populations, with f. gracilis recognized as a minor variant.
41425806|Stream-bank stabilization structures, or revetment, can impact riparian systems by confining watercourses to the point where natural functions are limited. Removal of existing revetment may have considerable impacts to stream-bank stability however. The effects of revetment and revetment removal on vegetation and stream-bank morphology were measured on three streams in forests dominated by Sequoia sempervirens (Coast Redwood) in northern California. Data were collected using randomly located transects on three treatments; "no-revetment," "revetment-intact," and "revetment removed." Results were compared between treatments using ANOVA at a 0.05 level of significance. On all three sites, species richness, vegetation cover, and tree seedling density were found to be highest where no revetment existed compared to where revetment was intact. Stream depth and stream-bank slope were highest where revetment was intact. Recovery of vegetation following removal of revetment was more site specific being most pronounced where recovery time was greatest and stream-bank restoration efforts were highest.
41425411|Above-average precipitation fell on the western Mojave Desert in February and March 1991, which resulted in the flowering of most plant species that spring. This mass germination event occurred despite the almost total lack of rainfall between September and December 1990, a finding inconsistent with previous observations from the Mojave Desert. The 58+ annual species observed on the study site flowered in a sequential manner from early March to mid-June, 1991. Climatic phenomena were similar the following year, as several winter storms produced large amounts of precipitation in February and March 1992. Consequently, at least 63 annual and 15 perennial plant species bloomed over spring 1992. Like the previous year, plants flowered sequentially from early March to late June. An analysis of flowering dates between years suggests that timing of flowering for these species is highly consistent from year to year. Some phylogenetic biases in flowering dates were evident among some of the locally-dominant taxa. Species in the families Brassicaceae and Boraginaceae flowered in early spring, whereas species in the Fabaceae, Asteraceae, and Polygonaceae, bloomed from mid-to late-spring. However, Polemoniaceous species flowered throughout spring.
41424613|Seeds of Larrea tridentata, a dominant shrub of deserts in the southwestern U. S., were germinated on both a pH and phosphorus (P) gradient to determine if requirements for germination can help explain the field distribution of Larrea. Germination decreased significantly above pH 8, which is consistent with the conspicuous absence of Larrea from high pH sodic or saline desert soils. Although Larrea tends to be absent from noncalcareous soil, seed germination was not inhibited in acidic solutions.Germination showed no response to  or to interactions of pH and P. In contrast, recent literature has suggested that Larrea may be restricted to calcareous soils of low phosphorus availability due to toxicity of high concentrations of  to seedlings.
41425385|The Willamette Valley in northwestern Oregon is a mosaic of plant communities, some of which have become rare following European settlement. William L. Finley National Wildlife Refuge preserves examples of many of these historic communities, which provide diverse substrates for bryophytes. Mosses and liverworts were collected at the refuge from 1993 through 1999. Eighty-four moss and 24 liverwort species were identified and their substrates cataloged. The moss Physcomitrella patens (Hedwig) Bruch, Schimper & Gmbel is newly reported for Oregon. The rarity of some common Pacific Northwest species at Finley Refuge may be a function of the drier climate in the Willamette Valley than in the surrounding mountain ranges. Land at Finley Refuge is managed primarily for wildlife species, but the protection of natural and pre-settlement plant communities has resulted in conditions facilitating a rich bryophyte flora.
41702387|Calyptridium parryi var. martirense is described as new. Here we present quantitative measurements and statistical analyses of a number of morphological features that demonstrate the distinctiveness of this new taxon. The new variety differs from the others in having shorter fruits (3.1-4.1 mm) and a correspondingly smaller fruit length to sepal length ratio (1.0-1.4). The capsule is also the widest (1.4-2.2 mm) and the sepals the longest (2.4-3.9 mm) of any other C. parryi variety. Calyptridium parryi var. martirense is currently known only from high elevation locations (1900-2630 m) in the Sierra de San Pedro Mrtir, Baja California, Mexico.
41425464|Three small salt springs adjacent to state highway 299 west of Redding, California, support the only known population of the grass, Puccinellia howellii J.I. Davis. The common halophyte grass, Distichlis spicata (L.) E. Greene, and Puccinellia each dominate different areas within the springs. In 1991, a highway realignment encroached on the Puccinellia, and in partial mitigation, an attempt was made to convert a Distichlis-occupied area to Puccinellia. The subsequent re-occupation by Distichlis forced a reconsideration of the restoration rationale and methods, and raised concern for the potential of Distichlis to replace Puccinellia elsewhere. But a TWINSPAN of systematically chosen samples suggested that the two grasses are members of distinct vegetation types associated with different hydrology. Salinity and growth monitoring of stands of Puccinellia and Distichlis suggested that the former tends to occupy areas continually irrigated by spring discharge, while the latter tends to occupy areas that are less directly irrigated, where salt can accumulate during the warm months, but also where precipitation during the cool months can lower the salinity enough to temporarily permit the growth of glycophytic annuals. Triglochin martima L. and Juncus bufonius L. were also monitored. Greenhouse tests showed that Puccinellia is adversely affected by the high salinity typical of the Distichlis areas during summer. The association of P. howellii with continual surface flow should be considered when selecting and preparing revegetation sites, and when surveying for new populations.
41426171|A new species, Ericameria riskindii, is described from north-central Mexico, near Saltillo. It is remarkable for its remote relationship to other species in this area, its closest relative seemingly being E. juarezensis of Baja California.
41431657|In California, the Vegetation Type Map (VTM) project of the 1930' s has provided valuable historical vegetation data. Albert Wieslander led this effort to survey the forests of California in the 1930' s. His crews surveyed over 150,000 km  ,drawing detailed vegetation maps, taking 3000 photos and 17,000 vegetation plots. We developed a technique to digitize the Placerville 30' quadrangle VTM, rendering it to a Geographic Information System (GIS). The map covers 2408.8 km 2 of the west slope of the Sierra Nevada. In this area VTM crews identified 59 dominant plant species and eight genera or land cover classes and mapped their distribution into 3422 polygons. They identified recently disturbed areas that covered 13.5% of the landscape. We compared the digital VTM quad to CALVEG, a satellite-derived vegetation map from 1996. Land cover change for California Wildlife Habitat Relationship (WHR) vegetation types had occurred on 42.1% of the area. WHR types with the largest gains were: Montane Hardwood, Douglas-Fir, and Annual Grassland. Low elevation hardwoods, particularly Blue Oak Woodland (dominated by Quercus douglasii, Fagaceae), chaparrals and upper elevation conifers were the types that lost the most area. Differences in mapping techniques are unlikely to be the cause of this change because the analysis used controlled for map-based errors. Potential causes of the observed change at these physiognomic levels of classification include human perturbation, succession, and climate change.
41425082|The introduction of exotic plant species can provide insight into the biotic regulation of ecosystem processes. Many coastal California ecosystems have been changed by the introduction of exotic species, two of which are the blue-gum eucalyptus species (Eucalyptus globulus) and annual grasses species in the genera Bromus, Avena and Lolium. In this study, we compared the rates of ecosystem processes such as production and decomposition on sites dominated by these two exotic communities. Eucalyptus litter was produced in greater quantity and decomposed more slowly than litter produced in annual grasslands. Consequently, the litter layer in Eucalyptus sites was nine times larger than in annual grasslands. These results indicate that, under similar climatic and edaphic conditions, the characteristics of the plant species caused large differences in ecosystem processes.
41702385|Garrya (Garryaceae) comprises 15 species of shrubs and small trees restricted to the Americas. Garrya is taxonomically divided into two subgenera, Garrya and Fadyenia, which differ in morphology, secondary chemistry, and geographic distribution. The present work uses nuclear ribosomal DNA (ITS) sequence data from 11 Garrya species to elucidate phylogenetic relationships within the genus and test the monophyly of the subgenera. Results strongly support subgenus Fadyenia as monophyletic, while monophyly of subgenus Garrya is supported only by maximum parsimony analyses. ITS data do not provide evidence for genetic admixture between the two subgenera of Garrya in spite of broad geographic overlap.
41413361|Chromosome counts of n = 8 were obtained for greenhouse grown plants of seven populations and color morphs of Mimulus cardinalis Douglas, four populations of M. lewisii Pursh, and two populations of M. verbenaceus Greene. These counts include distinctive populations from the extreme southern peripheries of the ranges of M. cardinalis (1 population3 color morphs) and M. verbenaceus (2 populations). Populations of these three species, widespread M. lewisii Pursh (n = 8), and the rare, narrow endemic, M. rupestris Greene (n = 8), were hybridized experimentally in 10 intraspecific and interspecific combinations. Eight of the resulting F hybrids showed n = 8 and regular chromosome pairing, whereas the other two F hybrids also had two or more regular diploid plants (n = 8), but in addition, each had one triploid plant with n = 12  1 or 2.
41413362|Mimulus shevockii, a new species in sect. Paradanthus from desert habitats in the southern Sierra Nevada of Kern County, California, is described and illustrated. Its corolla is unique: four upper lobes are small, entire, and maroon-purple; the lowest lobe is much larger, bifid, and bright yellow. Vegetative and pollen morphology of M. shevockii resembles members of the M. rubellus and M. palmeri groups of sect. Paradanthus.
41424650|Seedcrop characteristics and the relationship of reproductive activity to size of organ pipe cactus (Stenocereus thurberi) were examined in Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, Arizona. A sample of 19 fruits collected had a mean diameter of 52.9 mm and a mean seed content of 1969 seeds/fruit. Laboratory germination percentage at 20-25C and a 12 hr photoperiod was 88%. Height measurements and fruit presence/absence observations made at two locations in the Monument indicate that most S. thurberi individuals begin to reproduce when they are 2-2.5 m in height. Plants typically have 4-10 arms by the onset of reproductive maturity. Large individuals of S. thurberi may produce more than 50 fruits in a season. These results indicate that the reproductive potential of mature individuals of this species is high.
41425028|Cryptantha fulvocanescens has a long history of confused taxonomie treatment, exacerbated primarily by the persistent misinterpretation of Cryptantha echinoides. Oreocarya nitida was mistakenly submerged into synonymy of C. fulvocanescens in 1927. It has remained in obscurity because of the many confusing treatments of this variable and difficult group of taxa. Cryptantha fulvocanescens var. nitida is a new combination for a taxon endemic to the upper Colorado River Basin. It is distinguished from var. fulvocanescens most notably by the dense silvery pubescence on the inner surfaces of its calyx lobes.
41424561|The grasslands in northwestern California show striking differences in species composition when compared to understories of adjacent woodlands. In addition, sites that differ in the length of time during which cattle graze are distinct. Native grasses, although present, are not important in any of the areas studied. Greater perennial grass cover occurs only in the grassland grazed for a partial season. Perennial forbs are well represented in the sites grazed for a partial season. A greater cover of introduced annual grasses and reduced species richness are found in sites grazed for a full season.
41424810|Experimental evidence indicates that Camissonia cheiranthifolia ssp. suffruticosa, a coastal dune perennial, is excluded from the strandline community due to intolerance of seawater inundation and sand burial. The strandline dune species Abronia martima and Ambrosia chamissonis were tolerant of all maritime stresses tested. Evidencia experimental indica que Camissonia cheiranthifolia ssp. suffruticosa, una especie terrenal de mdano costero, est escludo de la comunidad de encalle dado su intolerancia de inundacin de agua salada y entierro arenal. Las especies de encalle en mdanos costeros Abronia martima y Ambrosia chamissonis toleraron todas las pruebas de tensin martima echas [en ellas].
41425822|A federal survey of Rancho Muscupiabe in 1867 provided legal land description of 12,204 ha (30,145 acres) in San Bernardino Valley, southern California, which fortuitously includes records of prominent native vegetation marking the location of survey stations along the land grant boundary. We matched legal land descriptions to the mapped vegetation occurrences, documented before agricultural land use and urbanization cleared the land, to relocate site-specific species localities in 1867 for comparison to historical botanical collections and extant distributions. We show that Juniperus californica, a desert conifer uncommon in cismontane regions of southern California, occurred at Del Rosa near Little Sand Creek on the northern boundary of Rancho Muscupiabe, which extends the historical species range from nearest extant occurrences on alluvial terraces along the Santa Ana River Wash (7 km SE) and Cajon Creek (13 km W). Vegetation records accompanying the 1867 survey also document the endemic Juglans californica at Devil Canyon in the San Bernardino Mountains, and at the SE base of San Sevaine Ridge in the San Gabriel Mountains. The 1867 survey map predates earliest recorded botanical collections in San Bernardino County of Juniperus californica (JEPS48231) and Juglans californica (POM123336) by 15 yr. A synthesis of historical and modern data is presented to build upon comprehensive atlases of California vegetation and show that the easternmost distribution of Juglans californica extends along the cismontane foothills of the San Bernardino Mountains to Millard Canyon near Banning Pass.
41424577|The Encelia alliance is a monophyletic group comprising Encelia, Geraea, and Enceliopsis. Disk corollas, usually yellow, but dark brown in some species of Encelia, all absorb long-wave ultraviolet radiation. Ray corollas of Enceliopsis and Geraea are all yellow, and all absorb long-wave ultraviolet. One group of Encelia species (including the one white-rayed member) also has ultraviolet-absorbing rays; another group has rays that reflect ultraviolet. Outgroup comparison suggests that ultraviolet reflection is an apomorphy within the alliance that, along with other characters, marks the group of species possessing it as a clade.
41424353|A new variety of Allium lacunosum from California, var. kernensis, is described and reduction of A. davisiae to varietal status under A. lacunosum is proposed. A key to and discussion of the four varieties of the species is presened along with a distribution map and chromosome numbers for each, all n = 7.
41425304|Lesquerella navajoensis is a newly described perennial, cushion-forming species from northwestern New Mexico. It occurs on mesa rims of Todilto Limestone with other low-growing, wind-tolerant species and with or near a low form of L. fendleri. The species is apparently very rare and may be threatened by limestone mining activities. Lesquerella navajoensis belongs to a small group of species that include L. hitchcockii, L. tumulosa, L. rubicundula, and, as first reported here, L. arizonica. These species, except L. arizonica, are also rare or infrequent. This new species is most similar to the very narrow endemic L.tumulosa which is listed as Endangered by the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service. In addition to molecular characteristics, L. navajoensis differs in having strongly mucilaginous seeds, petals that are slightly orange at the junction of the blade and claw, and petals that are presented as flat rather than arched. A key is provided to the species of the L. hitchcockii Complex.
41424783|An electrophoretic analysis of enzymes was conducted on leaf material from each of eight major segments of the Tule Tree, a huge specimen of Taxodium mucronatum from Oaxaca, Mexico, variously interpreted as a single enormous tree, or as a natural grafting of several individuals. For comparison, two nearby conspecific individuals were also analyzed electrophoretically. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that the Tule Tree is one genetic individual. The literature on the Tule Tree is reviewed. Se llev a cabo un estudio electrofortico de enzimas en las hojas de cada uno de los ocho segmentos primarios del Arbol del Tule, un espcimen inmenso de Taxodium mucronatum, diversamente interpretado ya como un solo rbol enorme, o como producto de la fusin natural de varios rboles individuales. Para fines de comparacin, dos ejemplares de la misma especie que crecan cerca, tambin fueron analizados por electroforesis. Los resultados obtenidos van de acuerdo con la hiptesis de que el Arbol del Tule es geneticamente un solo individuo. El artculo incluye una revisin de la literatura sobre esta extroaordinaria planta.
41425809|Arceuthobium rubrum (Viscaceae) is a distinctive species of dwarf mistletoe having red to reddishbrown plants and red, shiny fruits. It is primarily distributed in the Sierra Madre Occidental of Durango, Mexico, but in 1972 a population of A. rubrum was reported from Oaxaca, Mexico, more than 1000 km south of the nearest population in southern Durango. Initially, this population was classified as a disjunct population of A. rubrum, but in 1989 it was described as a new species: A. oaxacanum. However, our morphological measurements and observations of the phenology for plants from Durango and Oaxaca indicate these populations are morphologically similar and flower and disperse seed at approximately the same time, supporting the results of recent molecular analyses indicating that the Oaxacan populations represent disjunct populations of A. rubrum. Arceuthobium rubrum (Viscaceae) es una especie distintiva de murdago enano de color rojo a caf rojizo y con frutos rojo brillantes. Se distribuye principalmente en la Sierra Madre Occidental de Durango, Mxico, pero en 1972 se report una poblacin para Oaxaca, Mxico, a ms de 1000 km al sur de la poblacin ms cercana al sur de Durango. La poblacin de Oaxaca fue clasificada inicialmente como una poblacin disyunta de A. rubrum, pero en 1989 fue descrita como una nueva especie: A. oaxacanum. Sin embargo, nuestras mediciones morfolgicas y observaciones de la fenologa de las plantas de Durango y Oaxaca indican que esas poblaciones son morfolgicamente similares y florecen y dispersan las semillas aproximadamente al mismo tiempo, lo cual apoya los resultados de recientes anlisis moleculares que indican que las poblaciones de Oaxaca representan poblaciones disyuntas de A. rubrum.
41425794|Herbivory is generally overlooked as a factor influencing the viability of endangered plant populations in western North American grasslands. I conducted experiments to determine the effects of terrestrial mollusc herbivory for survival of a federally endangered, annual forb, Holocarpha macradenia (Santa Cruz tarplant), in California's coastal prairie. In addition, I utilized litter removal and clipping regimes from a continuing study of site-specific responses to evaluate the relationship between herbivory rates from terrestrial molluscs and disturbance regimes. I planted seedlings of H. acradenia into copper bordered quadrats that excluded molluscs and into non-copper bordered controls at two sites in California's coastal prairie. Three treatment regimes of vegetation clipping and litter removal were utilized. Herbivory damage was assessed using an ordinal scale every two weeks throughout the rainy season. Molluscs were also trapped and identified. Herbivory amounts were significantly less when molluscs were excluded from plots for all disturbance regimes; however, there was no significant difference in herbivory levels between the disturbance regimes. A significant amount of invertebrate herbivory on H. macradenia was by the non-native slug, Deroceras reticulatum (grey garden slug), and this herbivory significantly affected the survivability of H. maradenia seedlings in California coastal prairie.
41425214|Hesperaloe is a North American genus consisting of three described species. Recent exploration of northern Mexico for plants with horticultural possibilities has resulted in the discovery of three new taxa. These are geographically isolated from each other and from the three previously described taxa. Descriptions and illustrations for two new species and one new subspecies are provided. A key to all five species is included. Hesperaloe es un gnero norteamericano que consiste en tres especies ya anteriormente descritas. Recientemente se han descubierto tres nuevas taxa en Mxico norteo en exploraciones para plantas con posibilidades hortcolas. Las nuevas taxa estn aisladas geogrficamente la una de las otras y de las tres descritas anteriormente. Se encuentran aqu descripciones e ilustraciones de las dos nuevas especies y la nueva subspecie. Tambin se incluye una clave de las cinco especies.
41425649|The Bromus carinatus complex comprises several cleistogamous taxa that have been recognized at a variety of taxonomic levels. Our study focused on three taxa: B. carinatus s.s., B. marginatus, and B. polyanthus, that have received varied taxonomic treatment. We mapped the collection sites of 673 specimens belonging to these taxa to determine whether their geographic distribution would support their recognition as species. We examined the characters customarily used to distinguish among the three entities: longevity, blade width, awn length, sheath vestiture, and lemma vestiture. The geographic data do not support the value of blade width as a taxonomic character but provide some support for use of awn length and the two vestiture characters. Of the three taxa, B. polyanthus, characterized as having glabrous sheaths and lemmas and, usually, short awns, was the most geographically distinct taxon. Bromus carinatus sensu stricto and B. marginatus showed some separation, the former being primarily a coastal taxon and the latter primarily an inland taxon. Based on our observations and published molecular data, we propose that B. carinatus and B. marginatus be treated as B. carinatus var. carinatus and B. carinatus var. marginatus (Nees ex Steud.) Barkworth & Anderton, comb. nov. respectively, and that B. polyanthus be treated as a species.
41425549|Gender distributions of the dimorphic shrub Malosma laurina were studied in a population in Ventura County, California, via assessment of population sex ratio, estimation of phenotypic and functional gender, and analysis of sex expression of individual plants. Reproductive investment was investigated via flower number and biomass as well as its effects on phenology and vegetative growth. The population studied had 30% female shrubs, which departed from a 1:1 ratio by Chi square analysis. Both phenotypic and functional gender measurements of males were less than 2% female, demonstrating M. laurina to be functionally dioecious. Varying fruit production was found both among and within male shrubs over three successive seasons, without apparent causal relationships with other factors. Reproductive investment was found to be similar between sex morphs at the individual level, despite heavier flower buds among males. Phenologies of thyrsi (i.e., inflorescences) were synchronous between the sex morphs in both flower and fruit development. Vegetative characters (i.e., branch internodal length and leaf measurements) did not differ between the morphs. These results suggest that the near complete dioecy of M. laurina appears to have evolved along the gynodioecy pathway from hermaphrodity toward dioecy.
41425353|Opuntia prolifera Engelm., (Coastal Cholla) is common to the coastal sage scrub community extending from Ventura County, California to El Rosario, Baja California. On the basis of morphological intermediacy, O. prolifera is suspected to have originated through hybridization between O. alcahes and O. cholla, both species of coastal and inland deserts of Baja California and Baja California Sur. For an independent test of this hypothesis, we generated RAPD banding patterns from exemplars of different populations of O. prolifera and the putative parents. In order to exclude other potential parents and to distinguish species-specific RAPD bands we included O. bigelovii Engelm., O. ganderi, O. tesajo, and O. wolfii (L. Benson) M. Baker in the screening. The results provide support for the hybridization hypothesis as well as some insight into the speciation process. Twenty-nine primers revealed 44 bands shared only between O. prolifera and one or the other putative parent. No other species included in the screening proved to be comparable alternatives to O. alcahes or O. cholla as the parents of O. prolifera. Unique bands are rare (= 2) in O. prolifera compared with O. alcahes (= 19) and O. cholla (= 23). Trends in the degree of band sharing between O. prolifera and representatives of O. alcahes and O. cholla suggest a central Baja California origin of the species.
41426309|Fraxinus pennsylvanica Marsh. (Oleaceae) woodlands are an important habitat for conservation of biological diversity on the Northern Great Plains. Many F. pennsylvanica woodlands appear to lack tree regeneration; however, little is known about the mode of recruitment in these stands. I sampled species composition, seedling density and the extent of vegetative recruitment of F. pennsylvanica for 17 stands in east-central Montana. Stand age distributions indicate that recruitment during the past 50 years has been greatly reduced compared to the previous 50 years. Detrended Correspondence Analysis identified a strong gradient in species composition positively associated with canopy cover of tall shrubs and mean annual precipitation and negatively associated with exotic grasses. Seedling recruitment of F. pennsylvanica was more common in stands with high DCA scores. The frequency of multi-stem tress indicated that at least 30% of F. pennsylvanica trees arose vegetatively. Rejuvenating sparse F. pennsylvanica woodlands should include both vegetative and seedling tree recruitment. Burning and/or cutting old, diseased trees with sparse canopies could create more vigorous stands once the sprouts have matured. Shadier habitat of such stands may encourage seedling recruitment by reducing the vigor of sod grasses.
41702382|Low elevation grasslands in California long have been dominated by Mediterranean grasses, but many areas still have large native forb populations. Alien forbs invade these grasslands, displacing both native and other alien species. Italian thistle is a noxious alien herb that has recently invaded these grasslands, including ungrazed blue oak (Quercus douglassii) and interior live oak (Quercus wislizenii) stands in Sequoia National Park. Here, Italian thistle tends to dominate under oaks and has the potential to substantially alter the foothill ecosystem by displacing native plants and acting as a ladder fuel that can carry fires into the oak canopy. We tested the effects of selectively reducing Italian thistle populations alone and in combination with restoration of native species. Two thistle eradication techniques (clipping and the application of clopyralid herbicide) and two restoration techniques (addition of native forb seeds or planting native grass plugs) were used. After two consecutive years of treatment we found: a) clipping was not effective at reducing Italian thistle populations (clipping reduced Italian thistle density in some areas, but not vegetative cover), b) herbicide reduced both Italian thistle density and vegetative cover for the first two growing seasons after application, but cover rebounded in the third growing season, c) native forb cover and species richness were not significantly affected by clipping or spot-treating with herbicide, d) the grass and forb addition treatments by themselves were not effective at reducing Italian thistle during the course of this study and e) sowing annual forb seeds after clipping resulted in greater forb cover and moderately reduced Italian thistle vegetative cover in the short term.
41425865|The mitotic chromosome count for Toxicoscordion exaltatum (2n = 22), documented for the first time here, matches the number formerly reported for other species in the genus. A base number of x = 11 is synapomorphic for Toxicoscordion. An updated overview of this recently resurrected segregate genus is given.
41425896|The rediscovery of bearded popcorn flower, the last confirmed collection of which was in 1892, is documented. The species is endemic to Napa, Solano, and Yolo counties, California, where it grows in vernal pools, vernal swales, and other moist areas in grasslands. Associated species include wetland and upland grasses and forbs typically found in the vernal pool-grassland ecotone.
41424670|Erythronium oregonum and E. revolutum overlap only slightly in geographic distribution, but can hybridize where they co-occur. Morphological traits of Erythronium and cover of associated species were assessed in lm plots in one hybrid and several pure populations of these two species on Vancouver Island. The species differ in size of flowers, relative size of scape and leaves, and several flower color characters. They also differ ecologically, E. oregonum occupying drier microsites than E. revolutum.Hybrids between them exhibited various recombinations of the parental morphological traits. Morphological variation in Erythronium at the hybrid locality was correlated with the ecological characteristics of the plots as indicated by a detrended correspondence analysis of associated plant species (r = 0.64). Erythronium oregonum and E. revolutum apparently are maintained as separate taxa by their ecological differences.
41425819|In the 150 years since their introduction to the state, species in the genus Eucalyptus have become the most common non-native trees in California. A clearer understanding of the ability of different species to reproduce in the state is important for how we monitor the ecological impact of these abundant non-native trees and for predicting possible future invasions. Here we present current data on the diversity of Eucalyptus in California, which species are spontaneously reproducing, or have the potential to do so, where they can be found, how they can be identified, and our analysis, based on herbarium and field observations, of the potential ecological impacts of various species in the locations where they have been introduced. We also present a new dichotomous identification key, and botanical drawings of all naturalized species. We discuss the degree to which factors such as life history traits, commonness of planting, and native range influence reproductive behaviors of different species.
41425223|Lycurus consists of three species, all with paired, single-flowered spikelets (the lower is short pedicellate and usually staminate, the upper long pedicellate and perfect). Lycurus setosus occurs in the southwestern USA, northern Mexico, northwestern Argentina, and Bolivia. Allozyme data were used to evaluate genetic diversity within and among populations of this amphitropical disjunct species. Electrophoretic examination of 18 putative enzyme loci in 13 populations revealed high levels of genetic variation (P ranging from 0.43 to 0.79; H from 0.31 to 0.62) and high levels of genetic diversity (F ranging from  0.38 to  1.00). All populations possess high levels of heterogeneity (Fis approaching  1, mean of -0.723) and exhibit lower levels of genetic fixation among populations (FST mean of 0.256). A comparison of genetic identity values among populations from North and South America indicates that the genetic variation is greater (I= 0.89) in North America than in South America (I= 0.94), and populations from South America lack six aleles found in the North American populations. There was one unique alele found in populations from South America. It seems likely that Lycurus setosus has recently dispersed to South America because the populations there contain less genetic variation. Lycurus consiste en tres especies, todas con espiguillas dispuestas en pares, flosculo nico (el basal brevemente pedicelado y usualmente estaminado, y el distal largamente pedicelado y perfecta). Lycurus setosus habita en el suroeste de Estatos Unidos, norte de Mxico, noreste de Argentina y Bolivia. Mediante el anlisis de alozimas se evalu la diversidad gentica dentro y entre poblaciones de esta especie disjunctiva anfitropical. El examen electrofortico de 18 loci putativos enzimticos en 13 poblaciones, revel altos niveles de variacin gentica (P vara de 0.43 a 0.79; H vara de 0.31 a 0.62) y altos niveles de diversidad gentica (F vara de -0.38 a -1.00). Todas las poblaciones poseen altos niveles de heterogeneidad dentro de las mismas poblaciones (Fis cerca 1, media de -0.723) y exhiben bajos niveles de fijacin gentica entre poblaciones (FST media de 0.256). Una comparacin de valores de identidad gentica entre poblaciones de Norte y Sur Amrica indican que la variacin gentica es mayor (I= 0.89) en Norte America que en Sur Amrica (I= 0.94), y poblaciones de Sur Amrica carecen de seis alelos encontrados en poblaciones de Norte Amrica. Se hall un nico alelo en poblaciones de Sur Americanas. Probablemente, Lycurus setosus ha sido recientemente dipersado hacia Sur Amrica porque esta poblaciones contienen menos variacin gentica.
41424257|Cymopterus goodrichii Welsh & Neese is described from the Toiyabe Range in Lander County, Nevada.
41425324|This study describes wetland vegetation developing on young volcanic surfaces at Mount St. Helens. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) revealed that habitat types reflecting moisture regimes were the best predictors of species composition and that elevation and geographical position were also significant predictors. Explained variation was significant and had increased from 19% to 31% in the five years since these wetlands were first sampled. Ten community types derived by TWINSPAN were cohesive when mapped in the CCA space. They represent more developed versions of community types previously identified in the study area. Understories of plots with over 70% Salix cover were internally more similar than those with less than 10% Salix cover, suggesting that biotic effects may be reducing variation. Similarity among plots connected by rapidly moving water was higher than that among plots supported by seeps and among drier plots. This suggests that dispersal limitations continue to influence understory species composition in isolated vegetation. The results of this study suggest that wetland vegetation is beginning to demonstrate deterministic effects due to competition and stronger coupling to moisture regimes.
41424477|Pseuderanthemum pihuamoense, distinguished by a broad, nontapering wing on the petioles and relatively long bracts, and Henrya tuberculosperma, distinguished by a relatively long, pubescent capsule and large, tuberculate seeds, are described from west-central Mexico. The new combination Holographis peloria is made based on Stenandrium pelorium Leonard, and a new name, Louteridium rzedowskii, is proposed for L. brevicalyx Rzedowski. Keys are provided to contrast each taxon with its relatives.
41424652|The White Mountains resemble the Sierra Nevada in having an unusually high concentration of alpine annual plant species. Thirteen species of annuals comprise 8% of the alpine flora of the White Mountains. Most species (69%) have distributions that extend throughout western North America; however, they are known to occur above treeline only in the White Mountains and Sierra Nevada. Two of 13 species of alpine annuals in the White Mountains have distributions from near sea level to the alpine, three occur from the desert to the alpine, and seven have distributions from the coniferous forest to the alpine in California. Three additional species (Chenopodium rubrum, Gentiana tenella, and G. prostrata), generally known as annuals, function as biennials in alpine habitats of the White Mountains.
41425919|The unusual edaphic habitats of late Tertiary lacustrine deposits in Sonoran Desert basins of central Arizona have previously been shown to harbor endemic taxa and disjunct taxa from other floristic regions, which inhabited the Sonoran Desert during previous climatic regimes. The infertile limestone soils contrast sharply with the surrounding volcanic soils, excluding the dominant Sonoran Desert vegetation and thereby providing an ecological opening for the disjuncts. The disjunctions provide clues for interpreting the biogeographical history of Arizona. Here, thirteen additional examples are documented. Taxonomic changes to two of the earlier examples, Eriogonum apchense and Hymenoxys acaulis var. arizonica, are discussed. Erigonum apchense from the San Carlos Basin is revealed to be a disjunct population of the northern E. heermannii var. argense, not a separate endemic species; and, a recently named taxon, Tetraneuris verdiensis, from the Verde Valley, is shown to be a rayless form of T. acaulis var. arizonica, not a separate endemic species. The biogeography of Ericameria nauseosa var. jncea and Quercus havardii are considered in more detail. The type locality of Ericameria nauseosa var. jncea is one of the disjunct localities, not from the main range of the variety. An unusual thicketforming oak in the Verde Valley is determined to be a disjunct population of Quercus havardii from Staked ?Plains of New Mexico and Texas and the Four Corners of the Colorado Plateau.
41424820|Oemleria cerasiformis is a common shrub in parts of the Pacific Northwest, but little is known about its autecology. To examine the habitat relationships of this species, we sampled 56 stands representing most of its geographical range. These stands contained a diverse array of woody species, indicating considerable variation in the habitats occupied. DCA ordinations for all stands and for various subsets indicated that moisture, disturbance, and phytogeographical patterns are important variables among stands. Both in the Willamette Valley, Oregon, and on southeastern Vancouver Island, B. C. (areas where it is common), O. cerasiformis occurs along a moisture gradient from Quercus garryana woods through Pseudotsuga menziesii forests to streamside groves of Alnus rubra. In areas too dry for growth on uplands and in areas of wet coniferous forest, O. cerasiformis occurs primarily along streams. It is common on upland sites only in the narrow segment of the regional moisture gradient that spans the transition from Q. garryana to P. menziesii forests.
41424488|Three species of Wolffia occur in California: W. columbiana, W. globosa and W. borealis. Because of their small size and relatively few critical morphological characteristics they have often been misidentified, and confusion has resulted from several different published epithets for each taxon. They are distributed throughout the state in marshes and ponds, often in disjunct clonal populations. All three species have extensive geographical distributions outside the state.
41426198|Three new species of Perityle (Asteraceae) are described and their immediate relationships identified. Chromosome numbers for the new species and five other taxa and notes about Perityle are included.
41424522|The floral nectar-sugar compositions of 34 species from southeastern Arizona and southwestern New Mexico were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Of these, 26 species have not been reported previously. Among the species surveyed were hummingbird flowers (18 species), hawkmoth flowers (seven species), bee flowers of various kinds (five species), butterfly flowers (two species), and those whose pollinators were not known (two species). Both the hummingbird and hawkmoth nectars were high in sucrose, averaging 71% and 81% respectively. The nectars of the purportedly butterfly flowers were very different at 76% and 46% sucrose. Bee nectars from large-flowered species with large corolla tube openings were high in sucrose (average = 76%) whereas small-flowered bee species with small corolla tube openings were lower in sucrose (average = 35%).
41424609|The taxonomic and geographic limits of Silene suksdorfii, S. grayi, and S. sargenta are not well defined in California. Specimens of Silene from subalpine and alpine regions have been regarded traditionally as either S. grayi or S. sargenta. Several collections from northern California possess features characteristic of S. suksdorfii.Evidence from morphological, ecogeographical, and phytochemical examinations is presented that clarifies the taxonomie relationships, delimits the differences among these species, and corroborates the existence of S. suksdorfii in California.
41426174|Thirty-eight species of corticolous myxomycetes are reported from California, most of which were collected from tree bark placed in moist chambers. Included in this number are several recently described species. The substrates and California counties where each taxon was obtained are listed, along with notes on distinguishing features of each species.
41426368|Eremogone cliftonii is described as new from northern California. Petal and capsule lengths and presence or not of pubescence or a bloom on vegetative structures are features useful in distinguishing this novelty from E. aculeata and E. kingii var. glabrescens, the congeners found in the region. Eremogone cliftonii occurs in open or forested areas on decomposing granite.
41426172|Mesquites in California extend in distribution over 480 km from the Mexican border to about 16 km north of Death Valley, and from Parker Dam east to Bakersfield. Prosopis populations are found at 60 m to 1090 m in areas where the mean maximum July temperature is 38C and the annual rainfall is less than 20 cm. Twenty-six populations belonging to P. velutina and P. glandulosa var. torreyana were examined. Prosopis velutina is very rare in California and has been reported from a few locations in Imperial, Riverside, and Kern Counties. Its present distribution is in proximity to the Butterfield stage route that once connected San Francisco and St. Louis. The presence of P. velutina in California is probably due to human introduction. Prosopis glandulosa var. torreyana is the most common species of Prosopis in California. It possesses a considerable degree of morphological variability. Principal component and cluster analyses showed that most of the variation falls in general trends that are habitatrelated and sometimes form a continuum along suspected routes of dispersal. Cluster analysis revealed possible morphological intergradation among populations of P. velutina and sympatric populations of P. glandulosa var. torreyana. This is probably due to hybridization. The two taxa overlap in several morphological characteristics but could be separated on the basis of a few characters, particularly leaf pubescence. Correlation between morphological characters was examined in terms of their importance in the systematics of the genus.
41424666|Hilaria annua from the state of Colima, Mexico, is described as new. This, the first annual species known in the genus, is clearly related to H. ciliata (Scribn.) Nash. It differs from that species in its annual habit, somewhat smaller spikelets, and chromosome number which is tetraploid (2n = 36) rather than octoploid (2n = 72). Se describe Hilaria annua del estado de Colima, Mxico como especie nueva. Se trata de la primera especie anual conocida para el gnero, la cual es similar a H. ciliata (Scribner) Nash. No solo se distingue por su condicin anual, sino tambin por tener espiguillas algo ms pequeas y por el nmero cromosmico. La especie nueva es tetraploide (2n = 36) y H. ciliata es octoploide (2n = 72).
41424512|Full-glacial (13,000-19,000 yr BP) wood rat (Neotoma) deposits from Death Valley establish a 1200-1500-m displacement of juniper woodland below modern, mountaintop relicts of Juniperus osteosperma. At an elevation of 425 m, however, there was full-glacial (19,550 yr BP) semidesert dominated by chaparral yucca (Yucca whipplei) with minor Joshua tree (Y. brevifolia). The late Pleistocene climate must have been much less arid and more equable with cooler summers than at present. Modern, hot-desert vegetation appeared at the 425-m site between 11,000 and 10,000 yr BP. The shift from pluvial woodland to hyperarid desert at 775 m was time-transgressive during 13,000-9000 yr BP, as is documented by three dated transitional stages of semidesert from this site.
41413364|Downingia bella and D. cuspidata were sympatric in 10 of 13 study pools. Of the three pools where they were allopatric, two pools were relatively shallow, dried up early, and contained only D. cuspidata. In pools where the species were sympatric, flowering of D. bella was correlated positively with pool depth, whereas flowering of D. cuspidata was correlated negatively. Peak flowering periods of D. bella usually occurred 2-4 weeks later than D. cuspidata. Downingia bella was significantly larger than D. cuspidata for seven morphological characters measured. Pollinators of D. bella were primarily Bombus californicus and B. sonorus. Downingia cuspidata was visited by numerous insect species, but neither species of Bombus was observed. Niche partitioning of the two Downingia species, which are sympatric in most of the vernal pools on the Santa Rosa Plateau, was demonstrated through differences in distribution, flowering phenology, morphology, and pollinators.
41426316|This paper presents a total of 28 chromosome counts for 16 different taxa of Draba (Brassicaceae) occurring in Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, and Utah. The chromosome numbers of D. argyrea, D. arida, D. asterophora var. asterophora, D. burkei, D. cusickii, D. hitchcockii, D. jaegeri, D. lonchocarpa var. exigua, D. paucifructa, D. pedicellata, D. pennella, D. sphaerocarpa, and D. sphaeroides are reported here for the first time. The taxonomic significance of the new cytological data is discussed for each species. Based on the information now available, two new combinations are proposed: Draba burkei (C. L. Hitchc.) Windham & Beilstein comb. nov. and Draba pedicellata (Rollins & Price) Windham comb, nov. Counts of n = 27 appear to be the first reports of this number among the perennial drabas. In agreement with the previous paper in this series, species with aneuploid chromosome numbers predominate. Unlike the earlier data set, nearly half of the aneuploid taxa have chromosome counts greater than n = 16. Five of these appear to have originated through hybridization between the aneuploid and euploid lineages. These data indicate that reticulation between major clades, previously thought to be rare in Draba, may have played an important role in the evolution of the genus.
41424786|Morphological, cytological, and controlled growth chamber studies demonstrate that a widely disjunct Raillardiopsis population in the Santa Lucia Range of central coastal California is conspecific with R. [Raillardella] muirii of the southern Sierra Nevada. Morphological and cytological variation detected within Sierran R. muirii essentially encompasses that of the Santa Lucia Range population. A revised description of this little understood species and a key to the two species comprising the genus are presented. Biological and geological considerations bearing on the origin of the Santa Lucia Range disjunction are discussed. High dispersibility, paleoecological factors, and plate tectonics have potentially contributed to this seemingly enigmatic species distribution.
41702408|The presence of autocorrelation invalidates all standard statistical tests unless special corrections are made. Because of this, it is important to know the degree of spatial autocorrelation in order to know how to sample. Mountain meadows were sampled to determine spatial autocorrelation of vegetation at the plant community level. A total of 40 meadows were sampled in the eastern Sierra Nevada, California. At each meadow a dominant plant community was selected for sampling. Sampling consisted of placing 10  10 cm quadrats at 1-m intervals on a 20-m transect and recording the presence for all vascular plant species rooted in the quadrats. Sites varied in plant species composition and number of species present. For each plot, ordination analysis in the form of reciprocal averaging was used to derive positions for each quadrat on axis 1. The scores from axis 1 were analyzed by semivariance to obtain the spatial dependence of the quadrats. Overall, three semivariance patterns were seen; A) plant communities that were autocorrelated at distances of less than one meter; B) communities that were autocorrelated between 1 m and 15 m; C) communities that were autocorrelated at distances greater than 20 m. Results indicate that for semivariogram type B, on average, sites were autocorrelated to a distance of 3.6 m, meaning that quadrats separated by greater than 3.6 m were independent. Beta diversity was significantly (P < 0.05) lower for semivariance type C than for either semivariance types A or B. These results are useful for determining spacing of sample points in mountain meadows to ensure spatial and statistical independence for presence/absence data.
41424755|Several species in the lichen genus Cladonia (Ascomycotina: Lecanorales) and their restricted ranges in California are discussed. Cladonia carneola,C. phyllophora, C. phyllophora, C. cervicornis subsp. cervicornis, and C. crispata s. str. grow in small populations on azonally occurring, extremely acidic soils (pH 2.9-4.0) in Mendocino and Amador counties. The taxa at these localities are reproductively isolated from other Cladonia populations. Isolation is more marked at the Amador County sites, where only one subsection of the genus is represented. Cladonia cervicornis specimens from acidic substrata in Amador County contain the p-depside atranorin, an unusual and primitive chemical constituent for this species. In contrast to vascular plant species, which are represented by restricted endemic taxa at these sites, the Cladonia populations discussed in this paper belong to cosmopolitan taxa whose ranges are very restricted in California. These taxa are represented by relictual populations at the sites studied.
41424523|A tiny annual Paronychia that has been known from the Sacramento Valley of California for 46 years is described as Paronychia ahartii. Its affinities appear to be with the Mediterranean P. arabica, from which it is nevertheless clearly differentiated by the erect, scarious, bilobed apices of its sepals.
41425583|Insect herbivory has been shown to have substantial impacts on plant growth and reproduction in many systems. However, the effect of insect herbivores on rare and endangered plants has not been widely studied, even though natural limitations on growth and reproduction, in combination with anthropogenic changes in habitat quality and quantity, likely contribute to population decline. In the current study, an insect exclusion experiment was used to assess the effects of insect herbivory on a federally listed endangered annual plant: Chorizanthe robusta var. robusta (Polygonaceae). The primary insect herbivore was a microlepidopteran larva, an undescribed species of Aroga (Gelechiidae). Excluding Aroga larvae led to a 30% increase in seed output compared to water control. No change in plant survivorship or seed/flower ratios was found with insect exclusion. Control plants given supplemental water had increased seed production, but only in the absence of Aroga infestation, an indication that infested plants could not fully exploit additional resources. These results show that rare annuals are potential host plants for insect herbivores, and herbivory is an important factor to consider when evaluating endangered plant populations.
41424951|Silene douglasii var. rupinae ("of a rocky chasm") is described as a new variety, based on fieldwork in Washington, Oregon, and California and herbarium study of specimens throughout the range of Silene douglasii Hook. Plants of var. rupinae are endemic to rocky cliffs and promontories in the Columbia River Gorge region of Oregon and Washington. They differ from other varieties by their markedly linear leaves, with length : width ratios typically exceeding 15:1, by their sometimes glandular calyces and stems, and by petal limbs that average 1-2 mm shorter and narrower than in vars. douglasii and orara. Corolla appendages are also shorter than in var. oraria. Var. rupinae encompasses a portion of the former var. monantha (Wats.) Robins, located in the Columbia River Gorge but does not include its douglasii-like type or those plants found in the Sierra Nevada, both of which we place in synonymy with var. douglasii.
41702409|Eriogonum evanidum Reveal is an annual herb in the buckwheat family that is endemic to southern California, USA and northern Baja California, Mexico. It was described by James Reveal in 2004 and was determined to be extinct due to the lack of recent observations and accessioned specimen collections. During field surveys conducted in 2007 and 2008 this species was rediscovered across its known range in southern California. Three of 10 historic occurrences that were presumed extirpated were located. One new occurrence was documented in the vicinity of Holcomb Valley, San Bernardino Mountains, CA. Location and habitat information are provided and the current conservation status of this species is discussed.
41424653|The presence of at least two species of mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa and P. pubescens) in the San Joaquin Valley of California has been explained previously as the result of the invasion of Mojavean floral elements during the Xerothermal period some 8000-5000 years B. P. I propose that a number of lines of negative evidence argue for the establishment and spread of both species within approximately the last 120 years.
41424887|Association analysis was used to explore the microdistributions of foredune species. The introduced beachgrass, Ammophila arenaria, affected the microdistributions of some species. Poa douglasii, Cakile martima, and Abronia latifolia were positively associated with Ely mus mollis. These four were negatively associated with Ammophila, whereas Mesembryanthemum chilense, Ambrosia chamissonis, and Camissonia cheiranthifolia were not influenced by Ammophila. Positive associations between Cakile/Agoseris apargioides and Mesembryanthemum/Ambrosia were also detected. Examination of microdistributions relative to Ammophila patch borders indicated that only Cakile was significantly influenced by distant-dependent rodent foraging from Ammophila patches.
41425773|A new combination, Muhlenbergia alopecuroides (Griseb.) P. M. Peterson & Columbus, is made based on published and ongoing molecular phylogenetic studies. Se propone una nueva combinacin, Muhlenbergia alopecuroides (Griseb.) P. M. Peterson & Columbus, basada en estudios filogenticos moleculares publicados y en curso.
41425800|I discovered evidence of extreme root proliferation by Eriogonum parvifolium following the recovery of skeletal remains of a large, radio-tracked snake buried in the sand dune environment at the Tijuana Estuary in San Diego, California. Located beneath an isolated E. parvifolium, the recovered remains were grossly entangled by a large number of roots generally absent from the adjacent soil. The apparent massive localized proliferation of roots suggests decomposition of the animal created a favorable soil mosaic readily utilized by the plant in an otherwise low nutrient environment.
41425303|Repeat sampling of 19 native Pinus radiata D. Don stands, each about one ha, was conducted after a 28-29 year interval. Tree density decreased from 636 per ha in 1965-1966 to 460 in 1994, probably due to mortality of young P. radiata. In these unburned stands, tree seedling densities were low for all species, and similar for both sample times although the density by stand was variablefrom 11 to 790 per ha in 1965-1966 and 15 to 986 per ha in 1994. Two-thirds of the tree seedlings sampled were Quercus agrifolia Nee, easily growing under the P. radiata canopies. Tree sapling densities were also low, averaging 177 per ha in 1965-1966 and 99 in 1994. In 1965-1966 only 58% of the saplings were P. radiata, and in 1994 only 50% were P. radiata.The rest, except for a single Arbutus menziesii Pursh, were Q. agrifolia, having tolerated heavy deer browsing as seedlings for years and finally producing a central stem emerging as a sapling. The stands reflect a sequence of maturation, from dense P. radiata poles to sparse large P. radiata trees with small Q. agrifolia trees below. Stands that were logged in the past (decades prior to 1965-1966) had high numbers of Q. agrifolia (seedlings, saplings and trees) below those few large P. radiata trees left (for unknown reasons) after logging. Of the 38 stands of P. radiata sampled in 1965-1966 on the Monterey Peninsula, 12 had been seriously modified by human activity by 1994.
41425630|Most populations of Salvia pachyphylla occur along mountain ranges adjacent to the Mojave Desert of southern California, southwestern Nevada, and northern Baja California, Mexico. A smaller disjunct group occurs in eastern Arizona near the southern edge of Navajo and Hopi reservation lands near Winslow, AZ. This study was undertaken to determine whether there are morphologically and genetically distinct geographical groups within S. pachyphylla and whether these groups form a cohesive unit easily separated from S. dorrii. Specimens of S. pachyphylla and broadly sympatric taxa in S. dorrii were examined in a morphometric analysis of twelve characters. A preliminary molecular analysis using the nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacers (ITS-1 and ITS-2) and the embedded 5.8 S subunit was also performed on the same taxa. Morphometric analysis supports the continued recognition of S. pachyphylla and S. dorrii as distinct species and the recognition of three subspecies within S. pachyphylla, requiring two new subspecies, eremopictus and meridionalis, described here. The molecular data support the recognition of the S. dorrii species complex as a whole, but do not support the separation of S. dorrii and S. pachyphylla as distinct species, although the Mexican populations of S. pachyphylla appear genetically distinct.
41425693|Variation in size class distributions along elevation gradients can indicate localized spatial expansion by tree populations inhabiting mountaintops. We searched for this pattern in northern foxtail pine (Pinus balfouriana Grev. & Balf. ssp.balfouriand) stands located in the Klamath Mountains of northern California. Data from 32 belt-transects placed within 16 foxtail pine stands were used to test the hypothesis that this species is expanding downslope locally. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMS) illustrated that size class distributions could be grouped into four types: (1) those at low elevations on north and east aspects; (2) those at low elevations on south and west aspects; (3) those at high elevations on north and east aspects; (4) those at high elevations on south and west aspects. Low elevation transects had greater abundances of small trees, while high elevation transects had greater abundances of large trees. We interpreted this pattern as support for the hypothesis that foxtail pine is locally expanding downslope in the Klamath Mountains. Further analyses showed that NMS dimensions were correlated with estimates of tree density, species diversity, the importance of shade-tolerant conifers, and boulder cover. Moreover, the importance of shadetolerant conifers was related to aspect, substrate type, boulder cover, and interactions among these variables. The pattern of those correlations suggests that several ecological and environmental factors affect the ability of foxtail pine to expand downslope through alleviation or alteration of competitive interactions. Those results provide an ecological context for climate-mediated range expansions and retractions in northern foxtail pine.
41425513|This study investigates genetic variation in the rare insular endemic Sibara filifolia, a species consisting of few, small, narrowly-distributed populations. Electrophoretic data for 29 allozyme loci were obtained for individuals collected as seed from the three known populations on San Clemente Island. Overall levels of genetic variation are low. Only two polymorphic loci were observed, resulting in low number of aleles per locus (1.01), average observed heterozygosity (0.006) and average expected heterozygosity (0.009) for populations. Interestingly, all polymorphism occurred in just one of the three populations, in spite of their close proximity. Most variation on San Clemente Island is thus found within rather than among populations (GST = 0.144), and there is significant differentiation among populations (FST = 0.145). Gene flow is estimated as Nm = 0.41 based on private aleles and Nm = 1.49 based on F ST . The differentiation of populations and low level of gene flow suggests that genetic drift is a potent force in these small populations and may further reduce genetic variation. RAPD and quantitative genetic studies are recommended to further evaluate these populations and the long-term prospects for this species.
41424769|Morphologic, field, and chromosomal studies of Opuntia series Clavatae including the three major taxa, O. schottii, O. grahamii, and a series of populations from Texas originally described as a putative hybrid by Anthony, suggest that O. schottii and O.grahamii are distinct and do not hybridize. The plants once considered to be hybrids are herein described as a new species, O. aggeria, most closely related to O. grahamii and O. moelleri, a species from northern Coahuila, Mexico. Estudios de campo, morfolgicos y de cromosomas de Opuntia series Clavatae incluyendo las tres taxa mayor, O. schottii, O. grahamii, y una serie de poblacines de Texas describidos originalmente como hbridos putativos por Anthony, sugieren que O. schottii y O. grahamii son distinctos ye que no se cruzan. Las plantas las cuales se consideran originalmente como hbridos se describen aqui como una nueva especie, O. aggeria, ms relacionado a O. grahamii y a. O. moelleri, una especie del norte de Coahuila, Mxico.
41424409|A California population of Abies lasiocarpa has volatile leaf oil composition similar to an Oregon Cascade population. Both are distinct from a Colorado population that contains greater percentages of santene, alpha-pinene and camphene and smaller relative proportions of beta-phellandrene and limonene.
41425685|A new species, Platanthera yosemitensis Colwell, Sheviak and P. Moore, from Mariposa County, California, is described and illustrated. Endemic to wet montane meadows between the main stem and the South Fork of the Merced River in Yosemite National Park, it is distinct from Platanthera stricta Lindl., P. sparsiflora (S. Wats.) Schlecter, and P. purpurascens (Rydb.) Sheviak & W. F. Jennings based on vegetative habit, floral morphology, color, and fragrance and pollination mechanics.
41424298|Seven species of the genus Pinus occupy a 3000-m elevational gradient on the western slope of the Sierra Nevada in central California. Three species of 3-needled pines replace each other abruptly over the mountainsides as do three species of 5-needled pines. The seventh species, a 2-needled pine, is found on the upper half of the mountainsides. Observed associations of pines on these slopes consist of a 2- or 3- needled species (or both) with a 5-needled species. A hypothesis is presented that interspecific competition between seedlings, ultimately for water, has led to the distributional patterns observed. This hypothesis is examined in terms of the morphological characteristics of seedlings and their needles that reflect their relative usage of water.
41425005|I measured floral characters, recorded floral visitors, and observed pollinator behavior in populations of Streptanthus tortuosus over an elevation gradient (305-2967 m). Floral characters differ significantly among populations with a negative correlation between flower size and elevation. Flowers from both high and low elevation populations are self-compatible but set few seeds in the absence of pollinators. Bees are the most common and consistent floral visitors, although wasps, flies, butterflies, and beetles were also observed visiting the flowers. Floral differences do not appear to be linked to breeding system differences or to pollinator differences but may instead be associated with some other phenomenon, such as climatic adaptation.
41426318|Two species of Passiflora in Arizona and northwestern Mexico are investigated. One species, P. arida, native to Baja California and Sonora, has recently been found to be naturalizing in southern Arizona. Another, P. foetida var. arizonica, native to southern Arizona and Sonora, is examined for taxonomic distinctiveness and raised to a new species, Passiflora arizonica. These two species are compared to each other, the potential threat of weediness in P. arida is reviewed, and the distinctive features of the biology of P. arizonica are discussed. Furthermore, comparisons are made with several other related New World Passiflora species of similar geographic range or morphology. Dos especies de Passiflora en Arizona y el noreste de Mxico estn siendo investigadas. Una especie, P. arida, nativa de Baja California y Sonora, ha sido recientemente encontrada naturalizada en el sur de Arizona. Otra, P. foetida var. arizonica, nativa del sur de Arizona y Sonora es examinada para su distincin taxonmica y como nueva especie, P. arizonica. Estas dos especies son mutuamente comparadas, la potencial amenaza de invasin en P. arida es revisada y la distinta caracterizacin biolgica de P. arizona son discutidas. Adems, se hacen comparaciones con otras especies de Passiflora del Nuevo Mundo de rango geogrfico o morfologa similar.
41424475|Angelica breweri and A. hendersonii are reduced to varietal status under A. arguta and A. tomentosa, respectively, based on their morphological similarities. A key to northern California Angelica, expanded descriptions, and distribution maps are provided.
41424771|Antennana aromatica and A. densifolia are closely related species occurring in disjunct, unglaciated regions of the Rocky Mountain cordilleran system. The species are morphologically distinct and are readily distinguished based on a number of characters. They both occur on predominantly limestone talus slopes from subalpine to alpine elevations. Indications from the current distribution of the taxa and the known extent of glaciation suggest that they once had more extensive ranges and that these were subsequently reduced by the Wisconsinan glaciation. Glaciation has played a major role in the phytogeographic history of the species, as well as in their evolutionary divergence. A population of A. densifolia from Montana, disjunct from the main group of populations in the Northwest Territories and Yukon, is a noteworthy collection.
41425474|Hylocereus undatus (a hemiepiphyte) and Opuntia ficus-indica ("prickly pear") are cultivated world-wide as specialty fruit and vegetable crops, so the role of temperature in determining regions suitable for commercial growth of these cacti was investigated for California, the leading agricultural state in the United States. Air temperatures below 2.5C and above 45C are lethal for H. undatus compared with below  10C and above 65C for O. ficus-indica, demonstrating the latter's greater tolerance of extreme temperatures. Mean nighttime air temperatures influence net COuptake for these Crassulacean acid metabolism species, optimal uptake occurring at 20C for H. undatus and at 14C for O. ficus-indica. Extreme air temperatures over a 30-year period for 326 weather stations and mean nighttime temperatures for 259 stations were mapped to identify where these species could be cultivated. Only 2% of the state's total area avoided temperatures lethal to H. undatus, mostly along the southern coast. In contrast, 36% of the state's area was possible for O. ficus-indica, exclusion occurring in mountainous regions. A Temperature Index (net COuptake over 24-hour periods at a particular temperature divided by uptake at the optimal temperature) was also utilized to evaluate a region's suitability for growing these cacti. The Temperature Index was below 0.7 for 59% of the weather stations for H. undatus but for only 16% for O. ficus-indica. In the regions where lethal extreme temperatures did not occur, the Temperature Index averaged more than 0.8 for both species. Use of a Temperature Index based on net CO uptake together with extreme temperature events can help evaluate regions for cultivating cacti with edible fruits or other new crops.
41424356|Dicoria argentea Strother from southern coastal Sonora is allopatric to and has larger fruits with relatively smaller bracts than its congeners.
41425118|A survey of anther glandularity in the American Myrtinae (Myrtaceae) (83 spp.) and related Myrtaceae (42 spp.) was conducted to discover any taxonomic tendencies that might exist. Of the larger genera, Calycolpus typically has 9-19 glands per anther in most species; Campomanesia, 0-1; Mosiera, 1-2; and Psidium, 1-4. Certain species differ greatly from the standard values for their genera. Thus, anther glandularity can be taxonomically valuable at both the generic and specific levels. Se hizo un estudio de glandularidad de anteras en Myrtinae (Myrtaceae) Americanas (83 spp.) y otras mirtceas parientes (42 spp.) a fin de descubrir tendencias taxonmicas que podran existir. En los gneros ms grandes el nmero tpico de glndulas por antera en la mayora de las especies es: Calycolpus (9-19); Campomanesia (0 1); Mosiera (1 2); and Psidium (1-4). Algunas especies difieren bastante de los valores tpicos de sus gneros. Asi es que la glandularidad de anteras puede ser de valor taxonmico a nivel genrico o especfico.
41424331|In 1968 the mixed shrub forest on the western caldera rim of Isla Fernandina, Galpagos, was buried by a major eruption of tephra. In June, 1971; July, 1973; and August, 1977, vegetation on the western rim was quantitatively sampled in plots along a transect extending 1.5 km from deep, barren tephra to the undestroyed original vegetation. In the 9 years following the eruption, only a few species of weedy composites and grasses became sparsely established in gullies on the deep tephra. By contrast, where the original plants were shallowly buried, vigorous vegetative sprouting of shrubs and of rhizomatous perennial herbs resulted in nearly complete cover by 1977. Species apparently reproducing only by seed returned more slowly than those species with vegetative reproduction. Land iguana activity and precipitation appear to influence the rate and patterns of revegetation. The shrub forest is composed of weedy species able to survive volcanic disturbance and revegetate newly created open habitats.
41424936|The plant communities of the Sierra de La Laguna exhibit not only biological importance, but also socioeconomical importance to the peninsula of Baja California. This contribution is part of a project leading to establishment of an ecological preserve in such mountains. This work presents 48 additions to the flora of the woodland communities, 44 species are properly new additions, and 4 are reidentified taxa reported in a former paper. Most of the species (65%) are both annual and perennial herbs. An affinity geographical analysis of the total vascular plants of the woodland (272 species), shows that the community has high levels of affinity with the tropical flora at both family and genus level (39 and 37%, respectively), followed by the cosmopolitan flora (27 and 37%, respectively). The relatively high affinity with the cosmopolitan flora suggests a recent arrival of this flora in the woodland. Las comunidades vegetales de la Sierra de La Laguna presentan importancia no slo biolgica, sino tambin socioeconmica para la regin sur de la pennsula de Baja California. El presente trabajo forma parte de un proyecto ms amplio que tiene como objetivo establecer una rea para preservarse ecolgicamente sobre tal serrana. Se presentan 48 adiciones a la flora del bosque de pino-encino y bosque de encino de la misma. Del total de adiciones, 4 son taxa reidentificados, y 44 son propiamente nuevos registros. La mayor parte de las especies (65%) corresponde a herbceas. Un anlisis de afinidad geogrfica en el total de las especies vasculares de esta comunidad (272 especies) revela que se guardan relaciones estrechas con la flora de afinidad tropical tanto a nivel de familia como de gnero (39 y 37% respectivamente), seguida con la flora cosmopolita (27 y 37% respectivamente). La relativamente elevada participacin florstica cosmopolita sugiere un arribo reciente de esta flora.
41424610|Clarkia concinna subsp.automixa Bowman is described from the South Bay Region of central California. Unlike typical C. concinna, this subspecies is not protandrous and is highly modified for selfing.
41413359|A large putative hybrid swarm between Layia glandulosa and L. paniculata was found at La Pursima Mission State Historic Park in northern Santa Barbara Co., California. Layia glandulosa is a self-incompatible, morphologically and ecologically polytypic, annual, diploid species (n = 8) that occurs in open, relatively dry habitats. By contrast, L. paniculata is a self-compatible, morphologically and ecologically uniform, annual, tetraploid species (n = 16) that occurs in shaded, relatively moist habitats. Putative hybrids occur in two contrasting areas. In one habitat, hybrids were found in an interface between coastal sage scrub community on sandy soils on a southwest-facing slope and oak woodland-valley grassland community with sandy and clay loam soils on a north-facing slope. In the other habitat, hybrids were found in open, sandy areas between large, scattered shrubs of a coastal sage scrub-dune scrub community at the top of a mesa. Morphological analyses showed the hybrids to be intermediate in most vegetative and floral characters. The hybrid haploid chromosome number (n = 12) is intermediate. A meiotic analysis indicates that the modal synaptic configuration is 8n + 8 and suggests that these two species share a common genome. The low degree of fertility (< 6%) in the hybrids presumably is the result of genie and/or chromosomal differences between the parents.
41425212|Intensive collecting in southeastern Sonora, Mxico has clarified the conspecific nature of Cynanchum wigginsii Shinners [Basistelma angustifolium (Torr.) Bartlett] and Basistelma mexicanum (Brandegee) Bartlett. This species is known from apparently disjunct localities in central Sinaloa, southeastern Sonora, and the United States-Mexico border region in Arizona and Sonora. Apparent distributional gaps between these population systems are probably due to insufficient botanical collecting rather than truly disjunct occurrences. The two entities that we treat as a single species were differentiated in the most recent treatment of these taxa by degree of recurvature of the apical anther appendages and the length of the style apex. These differences were based presumably on examination of very few specimens. Our examination of additional collections from a broad geographic area reveals that both characters vary on a local scale and do not covary consistently; thus recognition of two species is unwarranted. Acceptance of Metastelma R. Br. as a genus distinct from Cynanchum L. necessitates the new combination, Metastelma mexicanum (Brandegee) Fishbein & R. Levin. Although separated from Metastelma in previous treatments on the basis of the unusual elongate style apex, M. mexicanum is clearly a member of this genus; it possesses the comparatively delicate habit, small cuneate-based leaves, and minute flowers with simple corona scales characteristic of Metastelma. Colecciones intensivas del suroeste de Sonora, Mxico han aclarado la esencia conspecfica de Cynanchum wigginsii Shinners [Basistelma angustifolium (Torr.) Bartlett] y Basistelma mexicanum (Brandegee) Bartlett. Esta especie se ha encontrado en localidades aparentemente separadas en Sinaloa central, el suroeste de Sonora, y el area de la frontera entre los Estados Unidos y Mxico en Arizona y Sonora. Estos aparentes vacos distribucionales entre estas poblaciones estn probablemente causados por colecciones insuficientes. Las dos especies que presentamos aqu como una especie nica se diferenciaban de acuerdo en el estudio ms reciente de estas especies por la cantidad de encorvadura de las aadiduras apicales de las anteras y la longitud del pice del estilo. Estas diferencias estaban basadas probablemente en el estudio de pocos especmenes. Nuestro estudio de colecciones adicionales de una regin ms amplia revela que ambos caracteres varan a pequea escala y no covaran constantemente; por esto el reconocimiento de dos especies no est justificado. La aceptacin de Metastelma R. Br. como un gnero distinto de Cynanchum necesita la combinacin nueva, Metastelma mexicanum (Brandegee) Fishbein & R. Levin. Aunque estaba separado de Metastelma en estudios anteriores por el inslito estilo pice alargado, M. mexicanum es claramente un miembro de este gnero; tiene el hbito relativamente delicado, pequeas hojas cuneadas, y flores diminutas con hojuelas sencillas de la corona que son caractersticas de Metastelma.
41425908|A new species Mentzelia monoensis Brokaw and Hufford, endemic to Mono County, California, is described. Mentzelia monoensis, a hexaploid, is most similar to two widespread species, M. montana (Davidson) Davidson (tetraploid) and M. albicaulis (Douglas ex Hook.) Douglas ex Torr. & A. Gray (octoploid). The three species can be distinguished based on differences in floral bracts, fruits, and seeds. Mentzelia monoensis is commonly found in volcanic soils derived from the eruptions of Mono Craters and may exhibit edaphic specializations that limit its distribution.
41425866|The name Zeltnera muhlenbergii (Griseb.) G. Mansion is here applied to a species native from Monterey County, California, to southwestern British Columbia. From Z. davyi (Jeps.) G. Mansion, a California endemic to which the name Z. muhlenbergii has sometimes been misapplied, Z. muhlenbergii differs in that its calyx lobes are not keeled or have keels proximally only, to 0.25 mm wide, and its corolla lobes are 1-2 mm wide; in Z. davyi the keels of the calyx lobes are 0.3-0.6 mm wide and the corolla lobes are 2-3 mm wide. Zeltnera muhlenbergii has often been confused with Centaurium tenuiflorum (Hoffmanns. & Link) Fritsch ex Janch. s. l., a species naturalized from Eurasia, now established in Pacific and Gulf coastal North America. From C. tenuiflorum, Z. muhlenbergii differs most notably in its flabelliform rather than ovate stigmatic lobes and in its more open, non-corymboid cymes.
41424664|Three new species of Galium are named and described: G. antuneziae of Peru, with hairless fruits, shows some similarities to G. mandonii Britton, G. cajamarcense from Peru, also with hairless fruits, has a general resemblance to G. corymbosum R. & P.of sect. Relbunium, but lacks the involucre diagnostic of that section; G. fosbergii of Ecuador seems closest to G. diffusoramosum Dempster & Ehrendorfer, although the hairs are reduced in number and not uncinate. Se nombran y describen tres nuevas especies de Galium: G. antuneziae de Per, con frutos sin tricomas, muestra semejanzas con G. mandonii Britton, G. cajamarcense de Per, tambin con frutos sin tricomas, se asemeja a G. corymbosa R. & P.de la seccin Relbunium, pero carece del involucro diagnstico de esa seccin; G. fosbergii de Ecuador al parecer se relaciona con G. diffusoramosum Dempster & Ehrendorfer, aunque las tricomas de los frutos son escasos y no uncinulados.
43289180|Opal phytoliths are produced by plants and persist in soils as microfossils with taxonomically distinct morphology. We found phytoliths produced by the original native perennial species in soil under an annual grassland, thus providing the first direct evidence that the Califomian grassland was formerly dominated by panicoid opal-producing grass. The most common panicoid-type opals were probably produced by Stipa pulchra. Frequencies of opal phytoliths from native grasses were greater at 10 cm depth than at the soil surface beneath the annual grassland. Comparison of opal phytolith frequencies from 10 cm deep at the annual site and an adjacent relict perennial grassland site suggested that the density of panicoid opal-producing native grasses on the annual site was once similar to the relict grassland.
41424757|During germination, the radicle of Phoradendron californicum elongates greatly, eventually forming a minute disk or wedge from which penetration of the host is effected. Subsequently, the epicotylar pole and the entire radicle wither and die, the young plant having an exclusively endophytic existence for a brief period. All aerial shoots are formed adventitiously from endophytic strands. This pattern of establishment corresponds to that in Arceuthobium, but in Phoradendron is not known from other species, although a few species in Phoradendron and Viscum show transitional patterns.
41425277|We estimated seedling, sapling, and mature tree densities for two historically defined grazed-classes (LOW and HI) of the Mad River Ranger District, Six Rivers National Forest, CA. Using Quercus garryana Hook, vegetation coverages on a geographic information system and a variable probability sampling scheme, 9 oak stands were randomly selected from each grazed-class. We employed a second sampling stage by selecting 3 simple random samples of 100-m quadrants from each of the 18 oak stands selected in the first sampling stage. We found greater seedling and mature tree densities for the HI grazed-class and greater sapling densities for the LOW grazed-class. Sapling densities were roughly double and seedling densities about 5 times mature tree densities regardless of grazed-class. We suggest that increased grazing intensity creates favorable environments for seedling survival, but may ultimately reduce the number of seedlings transitioning to the sapling size-class. Our results showing roughly 2:1 sapling to mature tree ratios indicate that Q. garryana regeneration is occurring on these rangelands.
41425859|Abies magnifica A. Murray bis var. critchfieldii var. nov. Lanner (Critchfield red fir) is described. The new variety comprises the southernmost Sierra Nevada populations of California red fir. It differs from the typical variety in having smaller cones with protruding cone bracts. Because of the protruding bracts, populations of the new variety have been assumed to be disjuncts of the bracted A. magnifica var. shastensis Lemmon (Shasta red fir), described over a century ago from Mt. Shasta and considered present in NW California and SW Oregon. However, geographic patterns of morphological variation, artificial crossing results, and recent molecular studies indicate that Shasta red fir consists of California red fir introgressed by noble fir (A. procera Rehder), and that the new variety is not hybridized with noble fir.
41424594|Seedling growth morphology and initial elongation of roots of Quercus douglasii, Q. lobata, and Q. agrifolia were compared in artificial and field environments. Quercus douglasii had established longer main roots by spring than the other two species. This was attributed to its early germination and high rate of root elongation. Quercus douglasii has the smallest leaf area/root weight ratio among the three species, which enables it to occupy xeric sites. Restriction of Q. agrifolia to mesic sites is related to its relatively slow germination, low rate of root elongation, and larger leaf area/root weight ratio.
41424806|Antennaria pulchella and A. media are a diploid progenitor-polyploid derivative pair of taxa that occur in the cordilleran system of western North America.Antennaria scabra is a glandular form of A. pulchella and is considered to be part of the variation within that taxon. The sexually reproducing diploid, A. pulchella, has a very restricted range, in the subalpine-alpine zones of the southern Sierra Nevada from the area around Lake Tahoe to the Mt. Whitney region. Antennaria media is a widespread polyploid that occurs throughout the cordilleran system of western North America from the Mexican border to the subarctic. They are both part of a large arctic/alpine species complex known as A. alpina. One of the diploid progenitors of A. media, and consequently the A. alpina complex, is A. pulchella.
41425289|This study is the first examination of the reproductive biology of Orobanche pinorum Hook., a rare, parasitic flowering plant of western North America. Plants from six separate populations were treated to test reproductive strategies, including xenogamy, autogamy, and agamospermy. Seeds that developed from the flowers of treated plants were counted to determine the reproductive success of each strategy. The results showed O. pinorum to be predominantly autogamous, producing a mean of nearly 700 seeds per capsule and over 70,000 seeds per plant. There was some evidence for xenogamy, but potential pollinators were seen only on six occasions in three years. Two were collectedsolitary bees Osmia exigua and Ashmeadiella cactorum. No evidence was found for agamospermy. Orobanche pinorum appeared to parasitize only one hostthe shrub Holodiscus discolor (Pursh) Maxim.
41424355|The name Orobanche valida subsp. howellii is proposed for populations in the central North Coast Ranges of California, some 600 km from the known range of O. valida subsp. valida. Orobanche valida subsp. valida, heretofore known from two collections of the 1920s in the San Gabriel Mountains of southern California, has been recollected from two populations in these mountains. An overlooked specimen collected in 1908 in the Topatopa Mountains of Ventura County is morphologically intermediate between the two subspecies.
41426219|Phenetic analyses of 37 species of Melampodium are presented using cluster analysis (UPGMA) and principal components analysis (PCA). Forty-two characters are employed, 22 of which are quantitative and 20, qualitative; 26 are from reproductive parts, 15 are of vegetative parts, and 1 is chromosome base number. Six analyses are presented: three UPGMA with all characters, reproductive characters, and vegetative characters, respectively; and three PCA with the same character sets. The UPGMA with all characters and the PCA with just reproductive characters gave the best resolution of taxonomic sections and series in correlation with the previous phyletic classification of the genus. The basic framework of classification o Melampodium is supported, but M. nayaritense shows closer affinity with series Melampodium than with series Sericea. Melampodium nutans, shown earlier by cladistic analysis to be problematical, does not relate well phenetically to any other species.
41425843|The Dowiningia yina species complex (Campanulaceae), centered in northern California and southern Oregon, currently contains three morphologically distinguished species: D. yina, D. elegans, and D. bacigalupii. This complex of species is notable for high levels of morphological and cytological variation, with chromosome counts of n = 6, 8, 10, and 12. Molecular evidence suggests three main clades within this complex, corresponding more with cytological variation than with morphological variation. Additionally, the molecular evidence suggests a phylogeographic pattern associated with the Cascade Ranges, where members of the clade characterized by chromosome counts of n = 6, 8, and 10 are distributed primarily to the west of the Cascades while members of the clade characterized by chromosome counts of n = 12 are distributed primarily to the east. A third clade characterized by n = 10 is localized in the Lake of the Woods region of southern Oregon. Evidence from morphological, cytological, interfertility, and molecular data was used to re-examine the delimitation of species within this complex. Downingia elegans and D. bacigalupii are maintained, while D. yina is split into three morphologically cryptic species (D. yina, D. willamettensis, D. pulcherrima) that do not form a clade.
41424909|Effects of stream flow diversion on riparian vegetation can range from extreme to subtle. Extreme effects include extensive loss of riparian vegetation, such as has occurred along portions of Bishop Creek, Rush Creek, and other eastern Sierra Nevada streams diverted for hydropower production and municipal water use. Some diverted reaches of these and other streams, however, have relatively dense vegetation. This study revealed the presence of subtle diversion effects within such reaches of Bishop Creek, as indicated by younger age and size, higher mortality, and lower canopy foliage density of black cottonwood stands (Populus trichocarpa) in comparison to black cottonwood stands along a nearby free-flowing river (Pine Creek). Tree ring analysis implicated chronic drought and episodic floods as causes of this reduced biotic integrity. Droughts have become more frequent and intense, as a result of greater flow diversion during dry and normal years than in wet years. The frequency of flood flows has been diminished, but the magnitude of rare extreme flood events has been little affected. Restoration of biotic integrity depends, in part, on restoration of minimum and maximum flows that approximate natural conditions.
41424215|Hazardia is treated as a distinct genus, elevated from its most recent position as a North American section of the large genus Haplopappus. As such, Hazardia includes 13 species in three sections. The closest relatives of Hazardia species are probably in Haplopappus section Polyphylla of South America. Members of the North American genera Xylorhiza and Machaeranthera appear to be more distantly related to Hazardia.
43289032|Limnanthes douglasii R. Br. subsp. ornduffii E. G. Buxton (Limnanthaceae), a narrowly endemic meadowfoam from Moss Beach (Half Moon Bay) in San Mateo County, California, is described. Though it shares the morphological trait of being tetramerous with Limnanthes macounii Trel., endemic species in British Columbia, Canada, it is not a sister taxon to L. macounii based on molecular sequence evidence. L. douglasii subsp. ornduffii appears in an unresolved group with other L. douglasii populations/subspecies. Molecular data coupled with morphological distinctiveness and geographical endemism provide a credible basis for recognizing the Moss Beach population as a L. douglasii subspecies. Data suggest that tetramerism in the genus has arisen more than once.
41424716|The boreal species Salix scouleriana has been found to occur in Mexico. A study of the type material of Salix pattersonii and S. wendtii revealed that both are S.scouleriana. The original identification of S. wendtii as new was due, in part, to a misunderstanding of the change that occurs in ament morphology when a plant flowers twice in the same year. La especie boreal Salix scouleriana se ha encontrado en Mxico. Un estudio de Salix pattersonii y de S. wendtii ha descubierto que ambas especies son S. scouleriana.La identificacin original de S. wendtii como especie nueva se debe, en parte, a un mal entendimiento del cambio que ocurre en la morfologa del amento cuando una planta produce sus flores dos veces durante el mismo ao.
41425788|The taxonomic relationships of Clarkia calientensis were re-evaluated in light of information accumulated subsequent to its designation as C. tembloriensis subsp. calientensis. Closeness of relationship between C. calientensis and C. tembloriensis was based on ease of crossing and on cytological pairing configurations in intertaxon hybrids. These interpretations require the assumptions that closely related species are easy to cross, and that maximum cytological configurations are known. However, extensive crossing data show that sympatric, closely related species of Clarkia are very difficult to cross but allopatric species cross rather readily. Furthermore, the cytological data are incomplete as maximum configurations are seldom observed, and some hybrids have not been produced. In both cases, the required assumptions are not tenable. Sterile hybrids between these two easily crossed taxa are strong evidence that they are not conspecific. Consequently, C. calientensis should be recognized as an independent species. Examination of floral variation in C. tembloriensis led to the recognition of large-flowered, protandrous forms as a new subspecies: tembloriensis subsp. longistyla.
41425242|A biosystematic study of Claytonia lanceolata and related taxa in the Rocky Mountains was undertaken to evaluate the taxonomic status of C. lanceolata var. flava. This study was part of a broader assessment to determine the need for protection of the latter taxon under the federal Endangered Species Act. Electrophoretic and morphological studies revealed that C. lanceolata var. flava in southwestern Montana and northwestern Wyoming represents a distinct diploid species (n=8) whose populations consist of yellowand/or white-flowered plants. Morphological, allozyme, and cytological data all indicate that this taxon does not belong in the C. lanceolata complex, but is best placed in the group of narrow-leaved species that includes C. rosea, C. tuberosa, and C. virginica. Numerous populations of C. lanceolata var. flava, most often consisting of the white-flowered phenotype, were found in Montana and Wyoming, and legal protection is not warranted at this time. In some cases, actions to conserve endangered plant taxa must be preceded by an evaluation of their taxonomic status; this study illustrates the utility of biosystematic techniques in conducting such evaluations.
41424868|Eriophyllum congdonii and E. nubigenum, rare taxa, have also been treated as E nubigenum and E. nubigenum var. congdonii. Study of F, F, and F plants shows that experimentally the taxa are interfertile but the morphological differences that separate them in nature are maintained in the greenhouse. They should be treated as species.
41425134|We studied four floral color morphs of the annual Clarkia amoena var. pacifica to determine whether variation in reproductive fitness and pollination biology accompanied floral color variation. Reproductive variables examined included insect visitation, pollen production and deposition and seed set. Pollinator visitation rates were not significantly different among color morphs in observation plots located in the two study areas. However, the white morph, which occurred in a separate population, differed from the other morphs in that it received visits from a greater variety of insects. The white morph also produced 3.3 times more pollen than the other three morphs and pollen deposition on the stigmas of the white morph was 7.2 times greater than in the other three morphs. In addition, while most within morph comparisons of the number of seeds produced by open-pollinated, self-pollinated and cross-pollinated flowers were insignificant, seed set for the white morph was significantly less in outcrossed flowers. Meanwhile, among morphs, the white flowers produced more seed per fruit (x = 101.1, SD = 16.3) than the purple-spotted (x = 68.2, SD = 33.8) or white-spotted (x = 64.2, SD = 27.4) color morphs under self-pollination. This study suggests potential links between pollinator diversity, seed set, and population differentiation in a plant that appears to combine autogamous and xenogamous elements in its breeding system.
41425237|Although riparian areas are a critical component of biodiversity in arid lands, our knowledge of many major rivers of the western United Startes remains limited. The Truckee River of California and Nevada is typical, with a general lack of published data on its riparian vegetation. Cover type mapping of eight reaches shows that the relative proportions between natural vegetation and cultural land-use types vary. Despite impacts from logging, railroad and highway construction, and water resource development, riparian vegetation along the upper three reaches is currently dominated by native riparian species. In the remaining reaches large proportions of the floodplain have been converted to urban and industrial or agricultural uses, or have been disturbed and are dominated by introduced weeds. Downstream reaches have also been more affected by flow regulation, water diversions, and related impacts. The lower reaches also, however, offer the greatest opportunities for restoration and enhancement of the riparian corridor. Data is also presented on the current plant species composition and structure of natural riparian vegetation which, in conjunction with hydrological data, can help land managers and biologists to formulate strategies for wildlife habitat enhancement.
41424872|Compositional patterns of herbaceous vegetation and its relationship to environmental factors were investigated in blue oak woodlands and forests in southern San Luis Obispo and northern Santa Barbara counties, California, Based on ordination and classification analyses, herbaceous cover data from 208 0.04-ha plots clustered into three distinct geographic regions. Herbaceous vegetation was strongly associated with overstory crown cover, slope, potential solar insolation and elevation. A-horizon coarse fragment was a significant variable in two regions and available water capacity was important in one region.
41425291|We measured annual acorn production of oaks Quercus spp. at Hastings Reservation and at Hopland Research and Extension Center, located 320 km apart in the outer coast ranges of California, for 16 years between 1982 and 1997. Of the three species measured at both sites, acorn production by Quercus lobata Nee (valley oak) and Quercus douglasii Hook. & Arn. (blue oak) was significantly correlated between sites, whereas acorn production by Quercus kelloggii Newb. (California black oak) was not. Both Q. lobata and Q. douglasii acorn production was significantly correlated with mean April temperatures and rainfall at their respective localities, but more closely with April temperatures at Hastings and with rainfall at Hopland. Synchrony in acorn production between Quercus spp. requiring one year to mature acorns was significantly greater than among those requiring two years to mature acorns. The geographic extent of the populations producing acorn crops synchronously differs between species, but in some cases may extend over distances of at least several hundred kilometers.
41424832|The sediments of Woski Pond, Yosemite Valley in Yosemite National Park, record paleoenvironmental change spanning the last 1550 years. Closed conifer forest, consisting primarily of ponderosa pine, white fir, incense-cedar and Douglas-fir, existed around the pond until ca. 650 years ago. After 650 years ago more open canopy vegetation types such as oaks, sage and shrubs were found. Ethnographic records taken at the time of contact indicate that the aboriginal inhabitants regularly burned the Valley. The rapid decline in pine and increase in oak, coupled with elevated charcoal concentrations, indications of increased erosion and great expansion of aboriginal populations and cultural technologies are highly suggestive of vegetation manipulation for increased food resources by the early inhabitants of the Valley.These findings have implications for management of assumed natural vegetation types.
41425666|Postfire resprouting by woody plants confers a marked advantage in rate of recovery over species that regenerate entirely from seed. However, the predictability of this advantage varies markedly between species, with some showing nearly 100% rootcrown survival and others often much lower. This study examined patterns of fire-caused mortality and tested the relative importance of fire severity and plant age between various shrubs and subshrubs characteristic of chaparral and sage scrub associations. Resprouting success varied from about 10% for Eriogonum fasciculatum to a high of 98% for Quercus berberidifolia. For most of the shrub species, skeletons of resprouting plants were significantly taller than those of dead individuals of the same species, indicating less biomass consumption, and thus lower severity fires were associated with higher resprouting success. This pattern was less strongly the case with sage scrub species. Shrubs and subshrubs, however, differed in the effect of aboveground plant age (as estimated by basal diameter) on resprouting success. For most chaparral shrubs, age was not related to resprouting success, whereas in four out of five subshrub species, including Artemisia californica, Eriogonum fasciculatum, Salvia leucophylla, and S. mellifera, the youngest plants exhibited the highest resprouting success. I hypothesize that the reason for this inverse relationship between age and resprouting in certain sage scrub species is that, as these subshrubs age, there is a tendency to loose the resprouting ability and the mechanism is quite possibly because adventitious buds responsible for sprouting become buried by woody tissues. Patterns of character evolution in these sage scrub lineages support the hypothesis that the herbaceous perennial mode of seasonal aestivation evolved early and lignification is a more recently derived trait and this may have negative effects on resprouting as the plant ages.
41426187|Ceratozamia microstrobila is described from southeastern San Luis Potos, Mexico. It is compared with C. zaragozae Medellin-Leal and C. hildae Landry & Wilson, to which it is mostly closely related.
43288621|Important physical characteristics, morphological attributes, physiological functions, and genetic properties of mutant tanoak, Notholithocarpus densiflorus f. attenuato-dentatus (Fagaceae), and normal tanoak, Notholithocarpus densiflorus (Hook. & Arn.) Manos, Cannon & S. H. Oh, were studied on the Challenge Experimental Forest in Yuba Co., California in an attempt to explain the cause of the mutation and to determine where in the tree it was manifest. Leaves, stornata, trichomes, foliar nutrients, photosynthesis, transpiration, internal moisture stress, DNA, and genetics (metabolonics) all were examined in detail. In some instances, the plant part or the process favored the mutant; in others, the normal tanoak exceeded. Susceptibility to Phytophthora ramorum, the sudden oak death pathogen (SOD) was similar. No all-encompassing functional difference for either type was indicated, other than the size and shape of the leaves and the metabolites in them. We know the two tanoak types differ genetically, but more complete genomic analysis is needed to pinpoint the cause of the mutation. Some thought-provoking enigmas concerning the morphology and physiology of tanoak are presented along with the status (number of plants and location) of the rare mutant.
41425915|We present a detailed comparison of Papaver californicum and Stylomecon heterophylla, which earlier were found to be sister species and most closely related to Meconopsis cmbrica + Papaver s. str. from western Eurasia. The two species of winter annuals differ mainly in the shape of their distal cauline leaves, coloration of petals and staminal filaments, and most notably morphology of the gynoecium and capsule, with Papaver californicum having a sessile stigmatic disc and Stylomecon heterophylla having a distinct style. They were earlier found to differ in ploidy, with chromosome numbers of 2n = 28 (Papaver californicum) and 2n = 56 (Stylomecon heterophylla). Mapped distributions of the two species indicate that the range of S. heterophylla encompasses and exceeds that of P. californicum; both are known only from the California Floristic Province except for one collection of S. heterophylla from central Baja California. Whereas Papaver californicum is most commonly found in burn localities in the first wet season after fire, Stylomecon heterophylla is active under a broader range of environmenal conditions and often occurs in habitats that appear to be somewhat more mesic. Both species are selfcompatible and autonomously self-pollinating. Experimental hybridization resulted in well-developed but entirely sterile hybrids; no hybrids are known from nature. Based on these and earlier findings, we conclude that Stylomecon heterophylla is best treated in Papaver, as P. heterophyllum.
41424648|Annual fruit production patterns in Ceanothus crassifolius varied significantly over a period of six years and significant differences occurred between sites. Plants on southern exposures out-produced similar aged shrubs on northern exposures. Whether or not the causative factors are associated with aspect or differences in density of vegetative cover are unknown. Significant differences occurred among shrubs on the same slope. Some plants produced, on average, nearly an order of magnitude more fruits (per unit of areal coverage) than other plants. Fruit production patterns in Ceanothus species, particularly members of subg. Cerastes, are, in part, a function of conditions in the year prior to flowering and fruiting because flower buds are produced nearly 12 months prior to flowering. In years of heavy fruit production, internal competition for resources may limit flower bud production for the following year. This pattern is particularly likely if heavy fruit production occurs in a year of subnormal precipitation. During the course of this study, rainfall levels were above normal in five of six years. In plants on south-facing slopes there were consecutive years of large fruit crops. Stepwise multiple regression analysis revealed that total fruit production per slope face was correlated significantly with high precipitation in February, just prior to flowering. Fruit production by individual shrubs, however, was correlated with different parameters on north-facing vs. south-facing slopes. On the former aspect, fruit production was higher in years with warmer March temperatures and on the latter aspect larger fruit crops were correlated positively with October temperature and December precipitation.
41424258|Nemacaulis Nutt. (Polygonaceae) is a monotypic genus belonging to the subfamily Eriogonoideae. The genus is restricted to the coastal and desert regions of extreme southern California, southwestern Arizona, and adjacent northwestern Mexico. The species, N. denudata Nutt., consists of two variants, the coastal var. denudata and the inland var. gracilis Goodman & Benson. The two variants are distinct throughout much of their ranges but tend to merge in northwestern coastal Baja California where the desert comes in contact with the Pacific coast. Nemacaulis is most closely related to Eriogonum Michx., and probably evolved from the subgenus Ganysma, near E. gossypinum Curran.
41425607|The understanding of evolutionary relationships in Arctostaphylos has been hampered by taxonomic difficulties in this large and complex genus. A phylogenetic analysis of sequences from the ITS region for 38 species was used to provide a phylogenetic perspective for interpreting evolutionary patterns and relationships in Arctostaphylos. Phylogenetic relationships were estimated using maximum likelihood and Bayesian inference. ITS sequence data do not support a previously published subgeneric classification based on morphological characteristics, but do support the two lineages of Arctostaphylos described by a previous molecular phylogeny based on RFLP data. Topology tests indicate morphological characters are not useful in defining monophyletic clades.
41425820|The nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer and chloroplast rbch-accD intergenic spacer regions of species in the Pungentes subsection of Chorizanthe (spineflower) were analyzed. The goals of the study were to ascertain the phylogenetic relationships of taxa in the C. pungens-C. robusta complex to each other and to the other Pungentes species. The ITS phylogenies showed that C. diffusa was most distant from the other species and that C. cuspidata, pungens and robusta were not monophyletic. The four varieties of the C. pungens-C. robusta complex resolved into montane and coastal groups but the groupings were not in agreement with current classification. Statistical parsimony analysis divided 26 chloroplast DNA haplotypes into four groups with the 18 sampled populations of the pungens-C. robusta complex displaying a high degree of phylogeographic structure despite some incomplete lineage sorting. The haplotype analysis was not discordant with the ITS phylogeny. Possible taxonomic revisions and implications for conservation and management are discussed.
41426119|Seedlings of Pinus strobiformis Engelm. from central Arizona demonstrated significantly higher rates of photosynthesis at 25C than seedlings of Pinus flexilis James from any of five populations from California, Wyoming, or Nevada. The reduction in the rate of carbon fixation in dry soils was significantly less at four temperatures in a Wyoming population of P. flexilis than in a P. strobiformis population from Arizona. These results are interpreted as responses to the relatively warm and mesic climate of the site where the Arizona seedlings were collected.
41424169|Community characteristics and the distribution of woody species along complex elevational gradients are described for south-facing slopes in two California mountain ranges. In the inner North Coast Range, the low elevation (780-1250 m) community on Snow Mountain is a chaparral-woodland on serpentine substrate. At 1250 m, a sharp ecotone marks the change to nonserpentine soils and a mixed-coniferous forest that extends to the peak (2112 m). Along a northern Sierran transect (600-2040 m) is a series of three, well-defined forest communities. Species are distributed along this elevational gradient in a broad, overlapping manner with less correlation between community type and edaphic factors than found on Snow Mountain. The number of tree species in the Sierra is greater than on Snow Mountain, where serpentine soils and a drier climate are present. The number of shrub species and their relative importance is greatest in the serpentine chaparral where tree density and cover are low. On both slopes, overall woody species diversity decreases at higher elevations.
41426153|Sierran subalpine meadows in the upper Kern River drainage are classified based on their physiographic characteristics. Two main divisions are recognized: meadows with predominantly vegetated margins (Type I), and meadows with predominantly sandy margins (Type II). Meadows of both types occur in a variety of topographic positions. Geographic distribution, sandy margins, hydrology, and geologic stability of the various meadow types are discussed.
41425834|The combination Carex scirpoidea Michx. var. gigas Holm was published in 1904, without reference to a collector or specimen, citing only the type locality: Mt. Eddy, Siskiyou County, California. The first reference to a specimen as the type was in 1922 by Mackenzie, who cited a collection made by Cyrus Pringle in 1881, from Siskiyou Co., California. What constitutes the type of this combination has been questioned, however, and as late as 1999 was called unknown. A specimen has been found that bears every indication of being the holotype studied by Holm, collected on Mt. Eddy by E. B. Copeland in 1903.
41425160|El Arbol del Tule (The Tule Tree: Taxodium mucronatum Ten. [Taxodiaceae]), found in Santa Mara del Tule, Oaxaca, Mexico, is considered to have the largest trunk circumference in the world. It has been suggested, however, that this tree may be derived from the fusion of multiple individuals. Using random amplified polymorphic DNA's (RAPD's), we found evidence of genetic uniformity of the Tule tree among branches, indicating that the Arbol del Tule in all likelihood is a single genetic individual. As such, its claim to title of the tree with largest trunk circumference remains unchallenged. El Arbol del Tule (Taxodium mucronatum Ten. [Taxodiaceae]), localizado en Santa Mara del Tule, Oaxaca, Mxico, es considerado como el rbol con el tronco ms ancho del mundo. Sin embargo, se ha sugerido que este gigantesco rbol podra haberse formado por la fusin de varios individuos. Utilizando polimorfismos de DNA amplificados al azar (RAPD's) obtuvimos evidencia de uniformidad gentica entre las ramas principales del Arbol del Tule, indicando que este rbol est compuesto de un solo individuo genticamente. Por lo tanto, el ttulo de el rbol con el tronco ms ancho del mundo, para el Arbol del Tule, permanece latente.
41425409|The objective of this research was to test the hypothesis that the successional role of a plant population, because of its implications for the nature of the selective regime experienced by regeneration cohorts, determines, in part, the course of autecological evolution in a lineage of populations. A provenance study, which involved the raising of seedlings of lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta Loudon van latifolia) from seed under uniform conditions in a greenhouse, provided a test of this hypothesis. The seeds came from serai, climax, and persistent lodgepole pine populations indigenous to the Blue Mountains region of northeastern Oregon and southeastern Washington. Data about shoot and root system features, collected at the end of the first season of growth, proved useful in evaluating competitive competence, the relative ability of a plant, or group thereof, to compete successfully for essential resources such as light, water, and mineral nutrients. Analyses of variance and discriminant function analysis facilitated the search for correlations between population successional status and seedling morphology. The total leaf area, photosynthetic potential, degree of subdivision of the root system, and total root length of a typical seedling derived from a serai population are smaller than such quantities for the other population types. In climax populations, seedlings tend to exhibit the largest total leaf areas and total photosynthetic potentials among lodgepole pine seedlings. They are equipped with more elaborate and larger root systems. Despite their exceptional heights, seedlings belonging to persistent populations not only have slightly lower total photosynthetic potentials than those from climax populations, they also possess reduced lateral root densities and total root lengths. Greater competitive competences, with reference to life in the subcanopy, characterize seedlings from climax lodgepole pine populations compared to seedlings from serai or persistent populations. The results of this study support the hypothesis that successional status influences the evolution of autecological attributes in a population lineage.
41425894|Peniocereus striatus (Brandegee) Buxb. (Cactaceae) is an endemic Sonoran Desert cactus that reaches its northern range limit in southwestern Arizona. One U. S. population occupies a small area of Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument near the U. S./Mexico international boundary, which has been monitored since 1939. An extensive survey conducted in 2002, covering 177 ha, resulted in the discovery of 88 new plants, in addition to the relocation of 57 plants found in previous surveys. Despite potential increases in population size and spatial distribution, mean plant height and number of basal stems has not significantly changed in recent years. Bud scars revealed that a majority of the population was sexually mature. Peniocereus striatus occurrence increased with decreasing slope, spanned every slope aspect, and was highest on rocky soils, but was noticeably low on west and northwest slopes and areas where severe land degradation had previously occurred. Over half of P. striatus plants were nursed by shrubs and subshrubs, while 40% occurred under leguminous trees. A severe frost in January 2002 top-killed 19% of the population, with the greatest damage in drainage bottoms. However, long-term (19442002) climate records show that there has been an overall increase in the number of frost free days in the region, which, coupled with land use change, has implications for the future health of this population.
41424952|Malacothrix phaeocarpa, new species from the California Floristic Province, is described. The new species is self-compatible and self-pollinating, and closely resembles the self-incompatible species M. floccifera from which it differs chromosomally and in several floral features.
41431660|Specimens (in FH and PC) of Cwnathamnion sympodophyllum M. J. Wynne and K. Daniels (Delesseriaceae, Rhodophyta) made by C. G. Pringle at Cape Mendocino, northern California in 1882 are the first known collections of this rare monospecific genus. A collection (US) made by E. Y. Dawson from Trinidad Head, Humboldt County, and reported in 1965 as a "very compact, shortbladed" form of Delesseria decipiens J. Agardh is re-determined to be C. sympodophyllum. Records of C. sympodophyllum from Oregon, Washington, and British Columbia (Canada) are based on one collection from British Columbia, which cannot be verified. This taxon is most likely restricted to very exposed lower littoral rocky outcrops of Sonoma, Mendocino, and Humboldt counties in California.
41424907|Townsendia microcephala, a new species from Wyoming, is described and illustrated. It appears most closely related to T. spathulata Nutt., with its deciduous pappus and tiny heads. It differs in having glabrous or glabrate and epapillate achenes, smaller heads, and longer and narrower and less copiously pubescent leaves. It occurs about 125 km beyond the known range of T. spathulata.
41425306|Populations of Castilleja austromontana (Scrophulariaceae) occur at high elevations (> 2050 m) on the Madrean sky islands of southern Arizona, adjacent New Mexico and northern Mxico. These mountaintop habitat islands are cooler and wetter than the desert and semi-desert grasslands below. We examined 41 vegetative, floral and seed characters for plants from six sky islands in Arizona. Univariate and multivariate analyses indicate strong morphological differentiation among populations. Discriminant functions analysis placed 88% of plants correctly, indicating that plants from different populations are morphologically distinct. Selection may contribute to the observed differentiation, but we have no basis for inferring the direction or strength of selection on vegetative traits. Sky island populations apparently share the same pollinators, so divergent selection on floral traits seems unlikely. Past and present gene flow may also be involved as our results conform, at least in part, to an isolation by distance model. The magnitude of character differences combined with inferences of population sizes suggests that genetic drift may also contribute to the differentiation observed.
41424419|A new species of Lomatium from Park County, Wyoming is described and illustrated. Lomatium attenuatum is distinguished by its inconspicuous involucel, elongate pedicels, and glabrous fruit with only 2 commissural vittae. It is compared with L. cous and other species, but its relationships are unclear.
41425389|Corallorhiza maculata var. ozettensis is a newly described mycoheterotrophic orchid from western Washington. It occurs in foggy rainforests bordering the Pacific coast of the north Olympic Peninsula. Unlike typical C. maculata, its flowers are consistently non-spotted, with a narrow, white labellum bearing two apical undulations and low, non-rugose basal lamellae. Stem cross sections show epidermal cells mostly tangentially elongate, each bearing 4-10 delicate cuticular ridges bounded laterally by narrow sinuses.
41425280|Little is known about the ecology of Eriastrum hooveri (Jepson) H. Mason or about its tolerance to oil field related habitat disturbance. Taylor and Davilla (1986) suggested the species was closely associated with dense cryptogamic soil crust, characteristic of undisturbed sites. We monitored reestablishment of E. hooveri on two sites disturbed by construction activities (a pipeline and a well pad) at the U.S. Department of Energy's Naval Petroleum Reserve No. 1, Kern County, CA. Before construction, topsoil from the sites was stockpiled. After construction, the topsoil was replaced, and the pipeline site and a portion of the well pad site were seeded with a mix of native shrub, grass, and forb species. Part of the well pad site was left unseeded so that reestablishment of E. hooveri could be compared between seeded and unseeded plots. Sites were monitored during the first two growing seasons following disturbance (1991 and 1992). Vegetation characteristics of the disturbed sites were compared with adjacent undisturbed habitat. Eriastrum hooveri recolonized both disturbed sites in the first growing season. Generally, the density and frequency of occurrence of E. hooveri on our transects increased from the first to the second growing season. Cryptogamic crust cover was low ( 4.6%) on both the disturbed and undisturbed sites in both years. Our observations suggest that 1) E. hooveri is able to quickly recolonize heavily disturbed sites, at least if topsoil is conserved and weather conditions are favorable; and that 2) cryptogamic crust cover may not be as important a correlate with the occurrence of E. hooveri as previously thought.
41425542|Keys are provided for the 731 species in 200 genera of mosses known from the states of Washington, Oregon, Nevada and California, as well as from Baja California Norte, Mexico. These keys emphasize differential characters of the gametophyte as primary distinguishing features.
41425041|To learn the effect of wind on a species native to a windy site, I compared germination, seedling survival, seedling form, and the force required to uproot seedlings in a wind-exposed and a wind-sheltered site. In February 1992, the sand dune perennial Lupinus arboreus Sims, was planted in wind-exposed and wind-sheltered plots at Bodega Head, California. Half the individuals were planted from seed and the other half were transplanted from nearby. By late July 1992, 26/43 of the germinants or transplants were still alive in the wind-protected plot but only 3/42 in the windexposed plot. This suggests the importance of wind-sheltered sites as safe sites for establishment of this dune species. By 57 days after planting the average plant was smaller in the wind-exposed than the wind-swept plot (P < 0.05), but those seedlings that would survive until harvest (day 151) were significantly larger in both plots than those that would die (P < 0.05). These data suggest that rapid early growth was important to survival. The wind-exposed survivors at day 151 (n = 4) tended to have morphologies more resistant to wind: they averaged twice the stem diameter (2 cm above the ground) and half the height of wind-protected plants (n = 28). There were no significant differences in the force required to uproot plants by treatment (P < 0.05). Two non-native lupines were also planted from seed to learn how congeners respond to wind. Germination, establishment, and growth of L. cosentinii Guss. plants were unaffected by wind, perhaps because the large seed permits rapid development of a taproot to aid in water acquisition. Seedlings of L. angustifolius L. cv. Ganja died quickly after total defoliation by caterpillars, suggestive of a major role of chemical defenses for survival of lupines at this sand dune site.
41424408|Along a vegetational gradient from cool-moist subalpine forests to warm-dry steppe, Eurasian weed infestation was restricted to the low-montane (Pinus ponderosa) to dry steppe (Bouteloua/Stipa) portion of the gradient for relatively undisturbed vegetation. With intensive disturbance the infestation segment of the gradient was extended through the mid-montane (Pseudotsuga menziesii) zone. The subalpine (Abies lasiocarpa) zone was essentially weed-free with or without disturbance. In the absence of deep shade, weed infestation was correlated with mean July temperature.
41426189|Results of culturing two height forms of Spartina foliosa in NaCl-treated nutrient solutions indicate that they are ecophenes. Growth was best in moderately saline solution and inhibited in fresh water and in a 1.2 osmolal (35 ppt) solution. Comparison of these results with soil salinity from areas supporting populations of each form suggest that the height of S. foliosa is influenced by local soil salinity conditions.
41424500|Germination of the chaparral herbs Emmenanthe penduliflora and Eriophyllum confertiflorum is markedly stimulated by charate (powdered charred Adenostoma fasciculatum wood). The active component is not activated charcoal but is water soluble. Chaparral populations of Emmenanthe exhibit a nearly obligate dependence upon charate for germination. Eriophyllum, however, is facultatively dependent upon charate; charate is largely required for germination on potting soil or mature chaparral soil, but this species germinates readily on non-soil media. Soil extracts will inhibit germination of Eriophyllum on filter paper but this inhibition is overcome by aqueous charate extracts. Germination of this species is also reduced 50% with 0.05 M mannitol.Germination of both species is greatly stimulated by extracts of previously heated soil, though it is uncertain whether this is due to production of charate-like compounds from organic matter or to the destruction of inhibitors. Scanning electron micrographs showed that charate-stimulated germination was not accompanied by visible changes in the seed coat.
41425653|In a 1922 monograph on the California chaparral, William S. Cooper called attention to some patches of chamise (Adenostoma fasciculatum) growing robustly on deep alluvial soils on the west side of the lower Sacramento Valley. He submitted that these patches were relicts of "the true regional climax," suggesting that centuries of Indian burning accounted for the prevalence of grass instead of brush when the Sacramento Valley was first seen by Europeans. We examined available historical evidence and found that Cooper was right in concluding that the chamise patches he saw were vestiges of a much more extensive (ca. 4000 ha) aboriginal stand. Whether the controlling local influence was edaphic or anthropogenic, and whether the local pattern had any wider regional implications, are questions that remain open to speculation.
41426120|The peak of Mt. Grant, 3426 m elevation, in the Wassuk Range of Nevada is one of a number of small alpine islands in the Great Basin. In this study, the alpine zone was defined to be the zone above the highest areas dominated by shrubby Artemisia species. Its total area on Mt. Grant was about 2.6 km. The alpine flora consisted of 70 species. Of these, 12 species are found in the Sierra Nevada, 13 in the Sierra Nevada and Great Basin, two in the Great Basin only, one in the Great Basin and Rocky Mountains, 30 are widespread in western North America, and 12 are widespread arcticalpine species. There were no endemic species. Most species are not restricted to alpine habitats.
41425136|Vegetation types in Castle Crags State Park were classified using TWINSPAN into 8 series and 15 associations from 237 plots. The series, in decreasing order of abundance, were Pseudotsuga menziesii, Quercus kelloggii, Alnus rhombifolia, Quercus chrysolepis, Ceanothus cuneatus, Bromus tectorum, Quercus garryana, and Juncus patens. In addition, 2 types occurring in chronically disturbed habitats (powerline corridor and mowed meadow) were described. Each vegetation type was further described using physiography, soil characteristics, species diversity, tree density by height class, and basal area of tree species. Successional interpretations were made for plant associations.
41425133|We examined morphological and electrophoretic variation in the four floral color morphs of Clarkia amoena var. pacifica (Peck), a plant native to grassy coastal headlands of Oregon. Mean values of morphological characters such as petal length and width, leaf length and width, fruit length, and plant height differed between the white color morph and the other three, with the white color morph being consistently larger (except for leaf width). Electrophoretic analysis at 24 loci revealed higher htrozygote frequencies and greater numbers of effective aleles in the white color morph. Nei's measure of genetic identity showed high similarity among the color variants but the white floral morph was less similar to the other morphs than they were to each other ( = 0.94 versus  = 0.99). Since the white morph occurs in a more isolated subpopulation at Cascade Head where the other three morphs occur sympatrically, its divergence from them in morphology and isozyme patterns might eventually lead to population differentiation and speciation.
41426281|On-going botanical field exploration and the synthesis of resultant data into species-level plant distribution information in the United States has been handicapped by multiple assumptions: results of such an effort would have little or no pragmatic implication; all necessary work has already been completed, and the resultant information just needs to be compiled within a modern informatics framework; herbarium vouchers are not only already sufficient but become peripheral once label data are captured; further contribution by the systematics community is likewise peripheral, except for a trickle of new species descriptions that can be readily accommodated; species-level field exploration within the United States is neither science nor fundable; and a comprehensive species-level inventory is simply too big a project to tackle. To address these assumptions, a brief account of botanical surveys contemporaneous with topographic mapping efforts of the U.S. Geological Survey is presented, with parallels drawn where possible. Botanical inventory efforts of the University of California at Berkeley are likewise presented, including involvement in Wieslander's Vegetation Type Mapping Project and Bailey and Bailey's project to map the vegetation of Western National Parks. The cumulative result of these and other efforts, however, leave us with an estimated 5% of the national vascular flora still to be described, and distributional information of the known species falling far short of what is needed for informed decision-making. Simple accretion of additional distributional reports is not sufficient, but needs to be based on vouchered reports that have been critically evaluated within taxonomic models by members of the systematics community. The conclusion is therefore that standing assumptions are unjustified, and that a large-scale biodiversity counterpart to the topographic efforts of the U.S. Geological Survey is in fact a realistic and desirable goal.
41425897|Recent field collections and surveys of herbarium specimens have raised concerns about species circumscriptions and recovered several morphologically distinct populations in Mentzelia section Bartonia (Loasaceae). From the Colorado Plateau, we name M. paradoxensis from Paradox and Gypsum valleys of western Colorado, which is closely related to M. marginata. We name M. holmgreniorum from northeastern Arizona and M. filifolia from the northern border region of Arizona and New Mexico, both of which share morphological similarities with M. lagarosa, M. laciniata, and M. conspicua. From north central New Mexico, we name M. sivinskii, which is most closely related to M. procera and M. Integra. We describe three varieties of M. longiloba, including M. longiloba var. yavapaiensis, which is distributed throughout Arizona, M. longiloba var. pinacatensis, which is narrowly distributed in the Pinacate Desert of Sonora, Mexico, and the northern Chihuahuan Desert M. longiloba var. chihuahuaensis. We propose the new combinations M. lagarosa and M. procera to alleviate the polyphyly of M. pumila.
41425634|Coastal sage scrub (CSS) is a target for restoration because it provides habitat for numerous specialstatus species and it has been impacted by urbanization, agriculture and invasion by non-native species. Many restoration designs have neglected the herbaceous understory component of CSS, although it may comprise the majority of vascular plant species in a natural CSS stand. The omission of an understory may promote invasion by non-native plants and reduce overall success. This study investigated the role of native seed addition, non-native species removal, gaps in the shrub canopy, and soil moisture, upon establishment of a native understory. Native biomass increased significantly with seed addition, and the abundance of experimentally seeded native species was positively correlated with soil moisture. Natives were not affected by competition with non-natives or the presence of gaps. Although all seeded native species germinated, only two of seven established successfully, perhaps due to very low rainfall. Non-native species were negatively affected by the addition of native seeds and had greater growth in gaps. We conclude that planting shrubs in a dense configuration to reduce gap size may reduce non-native species abundance in the understory while having little effect on the native understory. Seeding may be all that is required to establish a native understory, and may also be an effective method of suppressing non-native species.
41425701|Dalea analiliana is described as new from the vicinity of Ycora in the Sierra Madre Occidental of eastern Sonora, Mexico. This perennial is related to D. nelsonii Greene, but differs in its white flowers, the presence of glands on both surfaces of the leaflets, and its more northern distribution. Dalea analiliana occurs in open grasslands and along roadsides in oak and oak-pine forest habitats similar to those described for D. nelsonii. Se describe la especie nueva Dalea analiliana de los alrededores de Ycora en la Sierra Madre Occidental al oriente de Sonora, Mxico. Esta planta perenne est relacionada con D. nelsonii, pero se diferencia por sus flores blancas y la presencia de glndulas en ambas superficies de las hojuelas y su rango geogrfico ms al norte.Dalea analiliana occure en pastizal y a orillas de la carretera con zacates en bosques de encino y pino-encino, habitates similares a los descritos para D. nelsoni.
43288624|Tanoak, Notholithocarpus densiflorus (Hook. & Arn.) Manos, Cannon & S. H. Oh (Fagaceae), is an important component of mixed-evergreen forests and woodlands in coastal California and Oregon, with incursions into the Sierra Nevada and the Klamath Ranges. Sudden Oak Death (SOD) is causing severe dieback and mortality in tanoak and could transform these ecosystems in areas where the pathogen Phytophthora ramorum S. Werres, A.W.A.M. de Cock can become established. Knowledge of genetic diversity within the species is important for both disease resistance screening, conservation and replanting in sites with high mortality. Here we review what has been learned about the genetic structure within tanoak since SOD has caused disease epidemics in the species. We review published work on genetic structure at the species level and provide some re-analyses of these data that show divergence across the geographic range. We also review recently published data on genetic structure at a fine spatial scale that provides some guidelines for the selection of trees as seed sources. Finally, we interpret a range of seed provenancing strategies in the light of our knowledge of tanoak genetic diversity.
41425292|Prescribed burning and mulch reduction via grazing are two restoration strategies employed for the enhancement of native flora in California grasslands. However, the effectiveness of these methods to restore native species and suppress alien species is poorly understood. In particular, the effectiveness of different seasons of burning to restore native vegetation has been attributed to several factors, including plant phenology patterns (phenology hypothesis), fire intensities (intensity hypothesis), and accumulated mulch biomass (mulch hypothesis). In order to test these hypotheses and compare the efficacy of burning and grazing as restoration tools, the short-term effects of fire season and mulch reduction on grassland vegetation were evaluated in the Carrizo Plain Natural Area (San Luis Obispo Co., CA). Warm-season (late-spring and fall) burning significantly increased the cover and diversity of native vegetation and decreased the cover and seed viability of alien grasses relative to control treatments. Winter burning and mulch reduction did not increase the cover or diversity of native plants and were only moderately effective at reducing alien plant cover. Seed germination data showed that the seeds of one common native plant species, Phacelia ciliata Benth, responded positively to fire. These results indicated that fire season is a significant factor in grassland restoration, and that the success of different fire seasons for restoration is determined by plant phenology patterns, season-specific fire intensities, and potentially the removal of all mulch biomass. Warm-season prescribed burning and not grazing or cool-season burning is the most effective strategy for restoring native annual vegetation to California grasslands.
41424421|The nectar sugar composition of 19 species in the genus Agave was determined by high-performance liquid chromatography and found to be variable among species. Eleven species produced hexose-rich nectars with small amounts of sucrose, four species produced nectars that contained hexoses only, and four species produced sucrose-rich nectars. Known pollinators and visitors of four species are compared to expectations based on sugar composition.
41424893|This investigation treats a group of Allium species from the Intermountain region of western North America characterized by a single, terete leaf per bulb and six prominent processes on the ovary, forming an ovarian crest. Cell shape and pattern on the inner epidermis of the leaf base indicate that previous authors have misunderstood the relationship between A. nevadense S. Watson, A. cristatum S. Watson and A. atrorubens S. Watson. A key to the two recognized species and one variety is presented. Typification of the names involved is given where necessary. A distribution map is included.
41426236|We employed isozyme and random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers to determine the genotypes or "genetic fingerprints" for five groups of cultivars, each of which contain two or more varieties suspected of being identical. Cultivars previously hypothesized to be identical were found to differ isozymically in only one case (Ceanothus ' Dark Star' and ' Julia Phelps'). In contrast, only the cultivar pairs Salvia mellifera Trostrata' and Tera Seca' and Fremontodendron ' Ken Taylor' (Tree of Life) and 'E1 Dorado Gold' displayed identical RAPD profiles. Based on these results, we place Salvia mellifera ' Prostrata' in synonymy with Salvia mellifera ' Tera Seca' because the latter represents the first nomenclaturally valid name for this cultivar. Likewise, Fremontodendron ' Ken Taylor' (Tree of Life) has been incorrectly identified and should be treated as synonymous with Fremontodendron 'E1 Dorado Gold'.
41424906|Californian coastal sage scrub, a soft-leaved mediterranean-climate shrubland, is disappearing rapidly as urbanization spreads. Previous researchers classified the community on a regional spatial scale: three associations within the full range of southern coastal sage scrub and 11 subassociations within two of the geographic associations were identified. Ordination analysis of 54 sites at Starr Ranch in Orange County, CA, revealed that subassociations similar to some regional groupings are found at the local level. Whereas gradients in temperature and precipitation are the strongest predictors of distribution at the regional scale, topographic and edaphic variables were most influential at our site. Five subassociations of coastal sage scrub and their environmental relationships were derived: Salvia apiana-Artemisia californica-Eriogonum fasciculatum dominated sites with southerly aspects and coarser soils; Artemisia californica-Lotus scoparius was prevalent on northerly aspects; no correlation with environmental factors was found for Salvia mellifera. There were two transitional groups. The variation in floristics and habitat found at our relatively small study site has strong implications for conservation planning. We urge land managers to identify local subassociations in order to protect the variability over short distances ( 50 m) characteristic of southern coastal sage scrub.
41424940|The germination characteristics of Cytisus scoparius, a weedy leguminous shrub now naturalized in California, were examined in the field and laboratory. Seed viability, longevity, and the effects of light, temperature, eliaosome removal and seed depth on germination were determined. Effects on seedling vigor of scarification by alternate immersion in liquid nitrogen and boiling water were appraised on fresh and stored C. scoparius seeds. Both fresh and stored seeds of a Sierra Nevada foothill population were found to be 98% viable, but >65% of C. scoparius seeds had an impervious seed coat that delayed germination for months or years. Permeable seeds emerge most successfully from the top 2 cm of soil, and none emerged from below 8 cm. Germination occurred at 4-33C, maximally at 18-22C. Heat of >150C or more for 2 min killed the seed, and temperatures >100C for 1 min increased susceptibility to fungal pathogens. Temperatures of 65C for 2 min significantly increased germination and did not decrease fungal resistance. Eliaosome removal had no significant effect on seed germination. Alternate immersion in liquid nitrogen and boiling water did not effect seedling vigor and was effective in scarifying fresh and stored C. scoparius seeds.
41425762|Cryptantha crinita Greene (silky cryptantha) is a rare native annual plant previously known solely from alluvial soils of the northern Sacramento Valley in California. It has been considered a lowland species (85-300 m) associated with creekbeds. Several recent collections (1990-2004) made in upland habitats at 850-1200 m show that the species is more common and has a wider ecological amplitude than previously thought. Although the habitats of the upland and valley sites differ, they are both characterized by a sparse vegetative cover which appears to be a key factor for establishment and growth of C. crinita.
41424206|Punta Banda, a peninsula 24 km south of Ensenada, northwestern Baja California Norte, Mexico, has a flora of 258 species, 208 of which are native. This report includes an annotated checklist of the species with a description of the vegetation, physical environment, and a brief discussion of floristic and biogeographic considerations. Species richness on Punta Banda is roughly comparable with that on the California Channel Islands. The treeless, shrubby vegetation, characteristic of coastal areas in northwestern Baja California, is marked by the conspicuous presence of succulent species (Agave shawii, Dudley a brittonii, six genera of cacti) in appropriate situations, particularly in steep or rocky areas and on slopes with a southerly exposure. Typical chaparral-coastal sage scrub taxa make up about half of the native flora with another 15 percent of the species endemic to the coastal sage scrub-chaparral transition zone centered in northwestern Baja California. About 11 percent of the native flora are desert taxa and about 17 percent are widespread Pacific Coast taxa. Two species (Dudleya campanulata and Astragalus sanctorum) are endemic to the peninsula and four species (Eriogonum grande, Dudleya anmala, Hemizonia greeneana ssp. peninsularis, and Ribes viburnifolium) represent limited mainland occurrences of otherwise insular taxa.
41426296|Sixty-eight spring ecosystems containing 207 plant species were sampled in 1991 and 1992 on the East Bay Hills of Alameda and Contra Costa Counties, California. Using twinspan, we identified and described four plant community types: 1) Ryegrass-Herbaceous, 2) Rush-Herbaceous, 3) Willow-Poison oak, and 4) California bay-Poison oak. Spring types were related to environmental gradients and a binary disturbance variable (livestock grazing presence/absence) using canonical correspondence analysis (CCA). Extraction of 2 CCA axes proved useful in relating spring types to productivity (using litter as proxy) and elevation gradients. A third CCA axis indicated that the presence or absence of grazing was somewhat helpful in discriminating among plant community types although gradients found with detrended correspondence analysis (DCA), which uses only the species matrix, were much stronger than could be generated by combining measured environmental and management factors (i.e., CCA). While community type, which was defined by taxonomic abundance, was apparently independent of grazing presence/absence, the grazing axis (CCA) was effective in dispersing willow size classes such that overstory willows scored higher on the ungrazed end and shrub willows scored higher on the grazed end of CCA. We conclude that grazing can affect vegetation structure of some spring-fed plant communities, but that composition is controlled by site variables.
41424511|The recent taxonomic treatment of the North American members of the Festuca altaica complex by Looman (1979) is briefly reviewed and some nomenclatural problems are discussed. The nomenclatural histories of the included taxa are briefly summarized, and a revised taxonomic treatment is presented, recognizing three subspecies within the complex in North America, and including F. altaica subsp. hallii.
41425060|Rarity in vascular plant species can be caused for a variety of reasons, such as old age or habitat specialization, and many of these causes have been discussed for over a century. Some of the more insightful ideas about the nature of rarity have sprung from California botanists intimate with the California flora. New thoughts that have expanded on older ideas about rarity suggest that, as a biological phenomenon in the California flora, it is a polythetic expression of several limiting factors, including, but not limited to age of origin, habitat specificity, and possibly a limited genetic diversity. While efforts to catalogue rare plants in California is increasing our understanding of their biology as well as their threats, little attention is paid to unprotected, but possibly unique populations of common as well as rare species. Such populations may represent the beginnings of the evolution of new rare plant forms. Less vigilance in the protection of these populations may result in a decelerating rate of evolution of new rare plant taxa in California.
43289035|Lagophylla diabolensis is a new hare-leaf from the southern Diablo Range of Fresno, Monterey, and San Benito counties, California. Plants of the Diablo Range hare-leaf were previously included within L. dichotoma, which is treated here in a restricted sense to comprise plants from the Sierra Nevada foothills and eastern Great Central Valley. Lagophylla diabolensis differs morphologically from L. dichotoma by having consistently glandular distal foliage (glands clear to dark-purple), narrower cauline leaves, generally uniformly tawny stems, and smaller heads. The taxonomic significance of those morphological differences is corroborated by other evidence that L. diabolensis is more closely related to the widespread L. ramosissima than to L. dichotoma sensu stricto. The Diablo Range hareleaf occurs as scattered colonies, often in clayey soils of grassy openings in oak-pine woodland below 1100 m elevation. Extreme rarity and paucity of recent collections of L. diabolensis and L. dichotoma in the current sense indicates that both species warrant conservation concern.
41702543|Carex lemmonii W. Boott is a widespread California endemic. Herbarium and field studies showed its extensive morphological variation included plants called Carex albida L. H. Bailey, previously considered endemic to Sonoma County, California. Due to extensive overlap, characters of the perigynium, achene, inflorescence, and foliage did not separate the two taxa. Carex albida becomes synonym of the earlier name, Carex lemmonii, which has implications beyond nomenclature. Carex lemmonii is common and is not a conservation priority in California. When merged with Carex lemmonii, the only known natural population of Carex albida will no longer qualify for protection under federal and state endangered species legislation. A key and illustrations are provided for California species in Carex section Aulocystis Dumort.
41425710|Given the rich biological diversity in California and dramatic loss and modification of its habitats, populations, species, and ecosystems, a concerted effort has emerged to restore large areas of the state's public and private lands. Under these circumstances, ecological restoration represents an important element in the strategy to conserve numerous at-risk species and maintain vital ecosystem services. After reviewing the various motivations for ecological restoration, we identify some of the key challenges, both practical and theoretical, that are likely to affect the success of restoration efforts. We describe a shift in defining restoration success from a focus on recreating historic "pristine" ecosystems to viewing restoration in a dynamic landscape context in which realistic novel ecosystems are accommodated. These accommodations are necessitated by a broad array of challenges that include several global change factors. Finally, we argue that prospects for successful ecological restoration will be enhanced by emphasizing landscape-scale resilience and incorporating restoration into a regionally-coordinated, active adaptive management program.
41425697|Additional measurements of leaves and flowers are reported for Psittacanthus angustifolius and P.pinicola from Central America and southern Mexico. Measurements for mature fruits and seeds of P.angustifolius are reported for the first time. Additional information on the phenology, host range, and distribution of these mistletoes is also reported. Se reportan mediciones adicionales de hojas y flores de Psittacanthus angustifolius y P. pinicola en Central Amrica y el Mxico del sur. Mediciones de los frutos maduros y las semillas de P.angustifolius estn reportadas por primera vez. Informacin adicional sobre la floracin, rango de hospederos y distribucin de las dichas murdagos tambin estn reportadas.
41425755|The San Francisco Volcanic Field lies near the southern edge of the Colorado Plateau in northcentral Arizona, and is dominated by an extensive Pinyon-Juniper woodland. During 2004 and 2005, a floristic inventory vouchered 487 taxa from 74 families and 268 genera, including eight species endemic to Arizona. The Asteraceae, Poaceae, Fabaceae, Brassicaceae, and Scrophulariaceae comprised 51% of the total flora. Eriogonum, Muhlenbergia, Penstemon, Aristida, Astragalus, and Cryptantha were the best represented genera. Nonnative taxa accounted for ten percent of the total flora. Cryptantha minima and Suckleya suckleyana were vouchered as new records for Arizona.
41424499|Specific status is given to Physaria didymocarpa var.integrifolia and a new variety, P. integrifolia var. monticola, is described. This new variety is known from the mountains of western Wyoming and eastern Idaho.
41424486|A new species, Penstemon absarokensis, from Wyoming is described and compared with the morphologically similar P. alpinus, P. glaber, and P. paysoniorum.
41425461|Simmondsia chinensis (Link) Schneider, endemic to dry areas of California, Arizona, and adjacent Mexico, is the sole species of Simmondsiaceae. Wood anatomy and cambial activity of this species are analyzed in view of the transfer of the taxon from Buxaceae or Euphorbiales to Caryophyllales s.l. The wood contains features considered primitive in dicotyledons: tracheids, diffuse parenchyma, and rays that are both multiseriate and uniseriate. These features are shared with Agdestidaceae, Rhabdodendraceae, and Stegnospermataceae, families considered basal to most of the Caryophyllales s.s. ("core Caryophyllales"). Simmondsia has nonbordered perforation plates and successive cambia, features that occur widely in Caryophyllales s.l. Wood anatomy of Simmondsia is congruent with placement of the genus in Caryophyllales s.l. Simmondsia wood features reflect the desert habitat both quantitatively and qualitatively. Terminology and ontogenetic concepts of Simmondsia secondary xylem, successive cambial action, and periderm are contrasted with those in a previous study, and the problems of analysis of woods with cambial variants are discussed.
43288626|Non-native diseases of dominant tree species have diminished North American forest biodiversity, structure, and ecosystem function over the last 150 years. Since the mid-1990s, coastal California forests have suffered extensive decline of the endemic overstory tree tanoak, Notholithocarpus denstflorus (Hook. & Arn.) Manos, Cannon & S. H. Oh (Fagaceae), following the emergence of the exotic pathogen Phythophthora ramorum and the resulting disease sudden oak death. There are two central challenges to protecting tanoak: 1) the pathogen P. ramorum has multiple pathways of spread and is thus very difficult to eradicate, and 2) the low economic valuation of tanoak obscures the cultural and ecological importance of this species. However, both modeling and field studies have shown that pathogen-centric management and host-centric preventative treatments are effective methods to reduce rates of spread, local pathogen prevalence, and to increase protection of individual trees. These management strategies are not mutually exclusive, but we lack precise understanding of the timing and extent to apply each strategy in order to minimize disease and the subsequent accumulation of fuels, loss of obligate flora and fauna, or destruction of culturally important stands. Recent work identifying heritable disease resistance traits, ameliorative treatments that reduce pathogen populations, and silvicultural treatments that shift stand composition hold promise for increasing the resiliency of tanoak populations. We suggest distinct strategies for pathogen invaded and uninvaded areas, place these in the context of local management goals, and suggest a management strategy and associated research priorities to retain the biodiversity and cultural values associated with tanoak.
41431659|A literature review and determination of specimens performed in conjunction with treatment preparations for the Flora of North America North of Mexico and the second edition of The Jepson Manual indicates that the names in use for two Arc tods species (Arctotideae: Asteraceae) occurring in California need updating. Venidium fastuoswn (Jacq.) Stapf, a rare escape from cultivation, should be Arctotis fastuosa Jacq. (PI. hort. schoenbr. 2: 20, pi. 166; 1797) and A. venusta Norl. (Bot. Not. 118: 406-7; 1965) is the correct name for a naturalized species previously determined as A. stoechadifolia P. J. Bergius.
41424970|The importance of pollinator availability to fitness was investigated for Silne spaldingii, an endangered, hermaphroditic perennial plant of grasslands in northwest Montana. Proportion of fruits matured, seeds per fruit, germination, seedling growth and seedling survival, were all significantly lower for plants from which pollinators were excluded. The overall reduction in fitness for bagged plants was greater than 99%. Loss of fitness attributable to inbreeding depression was at least 97%. These results suggest that the presence of pollinators is critical to the persistence of S. spaldingii at this site. During 65 hours of observation at peak bloom in two different years, Bombus nevadensis was the only visitor observed to enter flowers and carry pollen, suggesting that it is one of, if not the only important pollinator at this site. Management activities that threaten pollinator populations should be avoided in order to protect populations of this endangered plant.
41425864|Savannas are open communities with a woodland and grassland phase. Some species are restricted to one phase or the other with some in both. The central Texas Edwards Plateau is mainly a savanna community with an east to west rainfall gradient and a tree density gradient with both factors being reduced in the west. We examined gas exchange rates of sun and shade leaves of three perennial species of Asteraceae, Simsia calva (bush sunflower), Wedelia texana (hairy wedelia,) and Brickellia cylindracea (brickell-bush). Maximum photosynthetic rates (A max ), light saturation points (L sal ), ambient light levels, leaf mass per area, leaf conductance, and transpiration rates (E) for sun leaves were significantly greater than shade leaves for all three species. Mean A max rates were 32.8, 23.2 and 21.2 molCO/m/s for sun leaves of S. calva, W. texana and B. cylindracea respectively. For shade leaves, rates were 21.3, 15.2 and 12.9 molCO/m/s respectively for the same species. Mean R d (dark respiration) rates were 3.00 molCO/m/s for sun leaves and 1.1 molCO/m/s for shade leaves of S. calva. R d rates for sun and shade leaves of W. texana and B. cylindracea were mostly lower but only significantly different for B. cylindracea. There were no significant differences between sun and shade leaves for the initial slope or quantum yield for any of the species. Leaf mass per area was greater for sun leaves of all species. A max rates for sun leaves were high as expected for sun plants, but A max rates for shade leaves were fairly high as well, probably because of the relatively open nature of the subshrub canopy. Most factors measured were high and suggest that these plants are sun plants or facultative species. These measurements would help explain why these species are present in the full sun, open grassland phase of these central Texas savanna communities and not below the woodland canopy where their growth and survival would be reduced because of lower light levels.
41425587|A new variety of Ericameria discoidea is described and illustrated. The variety is known from two locations in southeast Idaho and southwest Wyoming. It resembles E. discoidea var. linearis but has broader leaves that lack the glands that are usually present in var. linearis.
41425129|The modified Cowardin et al. (1979) classification described herein provides a methodology to identify all wetlands along the central and southern California coast and in the adjacent coastal watersheds from the Carmel River in Monterey County, to the Tijuana River in San Diego County. Use of classification tables in association with concepts of ecosystem context, site scale, and classification goals is intended to result in the development of a code (wetland type number) and wetland name that include information on the: (1) system, subsystem, class and subclass; (2) water regime and water chemistry; (3) hydrogeomorphic unit; and (4) substrate, dominance, or characteristic type of the wetland in question. A wetland data-page format also is proposed that provides a method for organizing information on the site location, characteristic species, ecosystem functions, socio-economic values, impacts, and conservation efforts for reference examples of the various wetland types.
41424899|Muhlenbergia pilosa from Mexico is described and illustrated. The new species is distinguished by its densely pilose florets; hirsute internodes; hairy sheath summits; membranous, deeply lacerate to short ciliate ligules, 0.5-2.5(5.0) mm long; and awned, pilose, second glumes. A tabular comparison with M. lucida Swallen and M. versicolor Swallen is given. Muhlenbergia pilosa de Mexico, se describe e ilustra. La nueva especie se distingue por sus flsculos densamente pilosos; entrenudos hirsutos; pice de las vainas pubescentes; lgulas membranceas, profundamente laceradas a cortamente ciliadas, 0.5-2.5(5.0) mm de longitud; y segunda gluma aristada, pilosa. Se presenta una tabla comparativa con M. lucida Swallen y M. versicolor Swallen.
41424925|Minuartia cismontana is described as a new species from the lower slopes of the Cascade Mountains, Sierra Nevada, and Coast Ranges of Oregon and California. It appears most closely related to Minuartia californica and M. pusilla, as suggested by macromorphological traits and seed microsculpture. The new species is distinguished chiefly by a stiffly erect habit, elongate pedicels and internodes, narrowly attenuate and prominently nerved sepals, hyaline sepal apices, and petals that equal or only slightly exceed the calyx. The flowering phenology of M. cismontana is overlapped by M. pusilla but is normally later than M. californica. Extant occurrences of the new species in Oregon are known only from ultramafic substrates. The range of M cismontana in California appears largely coincidental with the distribution of serpentine outcrops, based on herbarium records and geologic maps.
41424498|Seed of Yucca whipplei Torr. subsp. percursa Haines was collected in Refugio Canyon, Santa Barbara County, California. Seeds from a single capsule were planted in pots annually in a lath house at the University of California, Riverside. Two-, 3-and 4-year-old plants were dug up and examined for lateral vegetative shoots, and these were collected and photographed. Three-and 4-year-old plants had various types of offshoots, including rosettes, rhizomes, and many forms of intermediates, which are described morphologically. Rosettes and rhizomes occurred on the same individual. This evidence suggests that lateral vegetative branches may not be suitable characters for subspecies delineations.
41424612|Natural populations of Washingtonia filifera tolerate temperatures down to  11C and subfreezing temperatures for at least 22 hours. Nonacclimatized seedlings survive temperatures as low as -21C for one hour. Seeds are hardy, germinating readily after 36 hours of exposure to a temperature of -21C. Available climatic data suggests that the absence of W. filifera from springs and seeps in the eastern Sonoran Desert and portions of the Mojave Desert is for reasons other than simple intolerance to subfreezing temperatures.
41425595|We tested the host efficiency of an abundant non-native annual grass Parapholis incurva for the rare and endangered hemiparasite Cordylanthus maritimus subsp. maritimus. Flower production in C. m. maritimus was significantly less when P. incurva was the sole host (average flower), than when the native perennial grass host, Distichlis spicata, was present (average 13 flowers). When C. m. maritimus was prevented from parasitizing either the native or non-native host, flower production results were similar to that of the non-native host (average 1 flower). Formation of haustoria did not differ between host identity treatments (average 270 haustoria per pot), but was significantly less in treatments that did not allow root contact between the host and hemiparasite (average 10 haustoria per pot). The "pseudo-host" effect of the non-native annual grass could result in high energetic cost to the endangered hemiparasite. Management decision-makers should factor in the costs of non-competitive mechanisms when prioritizing non-native species removal in areas with rare hemiparasites.
41425415|A molecular phylogenetic study of the goldfield genus Lasthenia has clarified the relationships among taxa in the group. It has become desirable to make taxonomic and nomenclatural changes in order to reflect the relationships. Lasthenia sect. Amphiachaenia is the correct name for L. sect. Baeria sensu Ornduff (1966). The section now comprises six species and subspecies.
41424315|Five new species of Erigeron from northern Mexico are describedE. unguiphyllus, E. cuatrocienegensis, E. wellsii, E. stanfordii, and E. solisaltator. The first two are probably obligate gypsophiles; the second two are from the region of Pena Nevada in southeastern Nuevo Leon and west-central Tamaulipas; the last is from northeastern Chihuahua; all are narrow endemics. A new name, E. gypsoverus, is proposed for a previously described gypsophilic Erigeron.
41424857|Seedlings of Quercus agrifolia were found to be strongly associated with shrubs at two sites in central California. Although shrub cover occupied only 30% of the total cover, over 80% of all Q. agrifolia seedlings were found under shrub canopies. Although one site was grazed by livestock and the other was not, in both sites seedlings under shrubs were less browsed than seedlings in the open grassland. In field experiments where seedlings were grown with and without shrub cover, survivorship after two years in the open was 0, whereas 31% of seedlings survived under shrubs (18% of the experimental shrubs had living seedlings under their canopies). Seedling survival was not the same under all shrub species. Shoot mortality in these experiments attributed to water or temperature stress was 17% under shrubs and 63% in the open. These results indicate that Q. agrifolia may have a "nurse plant" interaction with some species of shrubs.
41425029|The Acalypha californica complex (Euphorbiaceae) of the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico has been treated as up to three species, A. californica Benth., A. pringlei S. Watson, and A. stokesiae Pax & K. Hoffm. Most recent authors, however, have recognized only two or one species, without offering supporting evidence. Study of herbarium specimens and population samples from throughout the range of the complex shows that most characters used to segregate the species cannot be used taxonomically because they vary either within individuals or within populations with no geographic pattern. In contrast, the frequency of plants with two distinct lengths of eglandular stem trichomes varies clinally. A different and weaker cline is followed by the number of teeth on the bracts subtending the carpellate flowers. Though in both clines the geographic extremes are different, no gaps in the clines are statistically recognizable. Only a single variable species, A. californica, should be recognized. El complejo Acalypha californica (Euphorbiaceae) del suroeste de los Estados Unidos y el noroeste de Mxico ha sido tratado como tres especies, A. californica Benth., A. pringlei S. Watson, y A. stokesiae Pax & K. Hoffm. Sin embargo, autores recientes han reconosido solo una o dos especies, sin ofrecer evidencia apoyando este reconosimiento. El estudio de ejemplares del herbario y muestras de las populaciones de toda la distribucin del complejo nos ensea que casi todas las caractersticas usadas para segregar las especies no deberan ser usadas taxonmicamente porque hay variacin entre individuos o entre populaciones sin ningn diseo geogrfico. Al contraste, la frecuencia de plantas con dos longitudes distintas de las tricomas del tallo eglandular varia gradualmente por toda su distribucin. Una gradacin diferente y dbil se encuentra con el numero de dientes el las brcteas que subtnden las flores femeninas. Aunque en las dos gradaciones los extremos geogrficos son diferentes, ningunas de las aberturas son reconocidas estadsticamente. Solo una especie variable, A. californica, debera ser reconocida.
41425061|As much as 79.5% of the California Floristic Province and 73% of the State of California remains poorly inventoried, judging from a review of local and regional floras. The Cascade Range, the Sierra Nevada, the Great Valley, and the Modoc Plateau have been especially neglected. The southern Sierra Nevada, portions of the Diablo Range, the Warner Mountains, the Little San Bernardino Mountains, and most of the major mountain ranges of northwestern California merit special attention. Most local and regional floras have been descriptive. Detailed and informative analyses of floristic patterns and processes depend on fine-scale samples of phytogeographic and floristic regions. Future studies should include comparative analyses, using appropriate exploratory statistical methods that examine overall relationships. Such approaches may reveal patterns deserving further inquiry. Studies of biogeographic processes (that have shaped California's flora) and local or regional patterns of diversity will benefit from new approaches that include molecular analyses and application of cladistic methods.
41424641|Erechtites glomerata (Australian fireweed) is a perennial alien species that recently has invaded San Miguel Island, an island off the coast of southern California. It is presently advancing into a grassland dominated by Distichlis spicata and with scattered shrubs. As is typical of many weedy species, E. glomerata is facultatively mycotrophic on the island. Levels of colonization by vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal (VAM) fungi ranged from 0-30% of the root system. Nine species of VAM fungi were recovered from its root zone.
41425663|Giant sequoia (Sequoiadendron giganteum) seedling survival was nearly seven (6.78) times greater in heavily charred soils than in non-burned soils 34 and 35 yr after the first experimental burns in Kings Canyon National Park, California, and the first such management burns in any western national park. Tree height, especially trees growing in intensely burned areas, was found to be highly correlated with sunlight and less so with moisture. Moisture and light were important to establishment of giant sequoias but continued growth of these trees in the first four decades of life appears to be more dependent on high levels of sunlight. Surveyed vegetation and downed wood indicated that 35 yr after management burns stand structure has developed to the point where the management areas are susceptible to destructive crown fires.
41424845|Twelve blue oak plant communities at the subspecies level of classification are described for California. Community analysis was based on 1000 Vegetation Type Map plots containing information on species composition, number of trees by species and diameter class, and environmental variables including elevation, slope, aspect, and parent material. Community structure is related to environmental variables in order to understand the possible responses of blue oak communities to natural and human-caused disturbance.
41424846|A census and mapping of the exotic flora of the Desert Laboratory grounds, Tucson, Arizona, is described. Most of the 52 exotic species are restricted to disturbed habitats. Five annuals (Bromus rubens, Erodium cicutarium, Hordeum murinum, Sisymbrium irio, and Schismus sp.) and one perennial grass (Pennisetum ciliare) have invaded extensive areas of undisturbed Sonoran Desert vegetation. Shared features of these six species are discussed with respect to climates of origin, evolution with pastoralism, grazing history of southern Arizona, integration into native food webs, and reproductive biology. The invasions appear to be irreversible, and other exotic species show signs of becoming increasingly invasive. What has occurred on the Desert Laboratory grounds may represent the future pattern for much of the eastern Sonoran Desert. The present status and history of introduction of each exotic species are presented in an appendix.
41425486|Knowledge of the response of native perennial plants to disturbances such as burning and grazing is needed for effective restoration and management. Spatial patterns of the perennial grass Nassella pulchra were analyzed following cessation of livestock grazing, continued moderate grazing, burning, and combined burning and grazing. Small-scale plant patterns on each site were analyzed using Ripley's K-function on the centers of occupied quadrats arranged on a square grid within 0.25 m plots. Nassella pulchra distributions show that the burning treatment significantly increased the clump size from 12.0 to 16.7 cm (P  0.03) and the grazing treatment decreased the clump size from 16.1 to 12.6 cm (P  0.05). There was no significant interaction between burning and grazing (P  0.49). Analysis of the observed frequencies within plots showed that the distribution of plants in the grazed treatment was more heterogeneous than the others (P  0.08). The burning treatment analysis at this scale shows no effects (P  0.81), and there was no significant interaction between burning and grazing (P  0.78) or reduction in variance from the blocks (P  0.36). This analysis reflects the increased heterogeneous distribution of N.pulchra at the 65 m scale. Our results on plant distributions support the recommendation that N. pulchra responds well to burning and grazing exclusion. Determining the spatial and biological responses of species within the plant community structure is important if a species, such as N. pulchra, is to be the target of successful management.
41424723|Gilia maculata is reassigned from its previous placement in Linanthus. It was described originally by Parish in 1892 as Gilia maculata, and placed in Linanthus by Milliken (1904). This species is poorly known because of its rarity and because of its very small size, causing it to be easily overlooked in the field. Rediscovery of a population of G. maculata provided the opportunity to study this taxon critically. Leaf arrangement and shape, indumentum, corolla and calyx morphology, and pollen exine morphology, argue against its unequivocal assignment to Linanthus, and favor its inclusion in Gilia.
41425824|A new combination, Trifolium variegatum var. geminiflorum is proposed, and a key is provided for varieties of T. variegatum.
41425352|We measured late-summer predawn, daytime and the overnight recovery of xylem water potential for six years in Quercus lobata Nee, Q. douglasii Hook. & Arn. and Q. agrifolia Nee. Predawn xylem water potential was positively correlated with the rainfall in the previous year, indicating that low rainfall years are experienced as dry years by these oaks. Quercus douglasii had consistently lower xylem water potential than the other two species. Predawn values were consistently different among individuals trees and species, but the daytime and recovery values converged in the wet years. These results indicate that onetime measurements of predawn xylem water potential are a good indicator of species and individual tree differences in access to soil moisture.
41424843|The distribution, size and reproduction of Ceanothus greggii were assessed in a six year old population, established from seed on a two hectare area burned in winter. Survivorship was an order of magnitude greater in plots fenced since the fire than in open plots. In fenced plots, height was not affected by proximity to shrubs of Adenostomafasciculatum that had re-established by sprouting from lignotubers. In open plots, C. greggii that were located among the dense branches of Adenostoma, were taller than plants in uncovered microsites, where repeated clipping by Sylvilagus bachmani and other mammals was common. Tall and well-branched C. greggii were common in fenced plots and virtually absent in open plots. Flowering was restricted to taller plants, with 22% flowering in exclosures and 3% in open plots. By reversing the fencing treatment, I showed that one year's growth is affected by herbivores and Adenostoma cover, corresponding to the effects over six years. The size of burned areas may affect the growth and reproduction of C. greggii through an effect on the presence of mammalian herbivores.
41424682|Scutellaria lutilabia, an endemic skullcap from an area of gypsum outcrops on the west side of Cerro Pea Nevada, Nuevo Len, Mexico, is described. It appears to be a member of sect. Resinosae Epling but differs strongly from all species ofthat section by its vestiture, flower color, and mericarp morphology. Scutellaria lutilabia, una capa calavera de una afloramiento de rocas yesosas expuestas en el parte Oeste del Cerro Pea Nevada, Nuevo Len, Mxico, esta descrita. Parece ser un miembro de la secc. Resinosae Epling, pero se differencia marcadamente de todos las especies de esa seccin por su indumento, el color de sus flores, y su morfologa mericarpica
41426290|Among-and within-provenance variability in growth and physiological performance were investigated in Pinus ponderosa Dougl. ex P. Laws, seedlings subjected to ambient or elevated carbon dioxide (ambient + 175 LL or ambient + 350 LL CO) for 16 months. Among-provenance variability was studied with bulk-collection sources from 5 different physiographic regions of California. Within-provenance variability was investigated with three half-sibling families from a common physiographic locale. Regardless of source, stem volume increased at ambient + 175 LL CO, but further increase in CO to ambient + 350 LL resulted in a variety of stem volume responses with about equal numbers of sources showing either no change or slight increases. Physiological responses to elevated CO, including decreased efficiencies of photochemical transfer (Fv/Fm), no change in stomatal conductance, and increased photosynthesis and water-use efficiency, were consistent among half-sibling families. Thus, for this limited survey, there was little evidence for within-provenance variation in physiological response to elevated CO. Among-and within-provenance variability in growth response to CO suggests differing genetic control of carbon acquisition and allocation mechanisms among sources of P. ponderosa. Understanding the extent and sources of intraspecific variation in growth and physiological responses to elevated CO is a critical need in developing management strategies that account for future altered environments.
41702411|In preparing the treatment for Polemoniaceae for the Flora North America North of Mexico it is necessary to propose a new combination in Linanthus (Polemoniaceae).
41425713|We investigated changes in vegetation composition of different grass buffer strips in a fragmented coastal agricultural landscape to evaluate the potential for native grass restoration of sites that receive agricultural runoff. Vegetative buffers bordering Elkhorn Slough, draining into Monterey Bay, California, were either seeded with a non-native annual grass (Hordeum vulgare) or with a mix of native perennial grasses (Bromus carinatus, Deschampsia cespitosa, Nassella pulchra), and aboveground biomass and cover of vegetation were measured over a 4-yr period. Based on preliminary results, we initiated a second, smaller-scale experiment to test establishment of native perennial grasses (Bromus carinatus, Elymus glaucus, Hordeum brachyantherum) at different seeding densities with combinations of non-native annual grasses (H. vulgare or Lolium multiflorum and Vulpia myuros) to optimize erosion control. In the first experiment, plots seeded with non-native annual grasses had greater biomass than native perennial plots in the first year. Biomass and cover of seeded annual grass decreased each year, which resulted in these plots being dominated by unseeded non-native species by the third year. In contrast, seeded native perennial grasses increased in both biomass and cover by the second year, with little cover of non-native species; but, in the third year cover of non-native species increased. By the fourth year, unseeded non-native species provided nearly all plant biomass and cover in all treatments. In the second experiment, native perennial grass cover was low, but was greater when seeded alone compared to when seeded with non-native annuals. The seeded annual grass V. myuros invaded and provided the majority of cover in most plots by the second year. Our results suggest that some species of native perennial grass can establish on former agricultural lands, but long-term survival is difficult without extensive management.
41425017|The alpine vegetation in the immediate vicinity of Sheep Mountain, Lemhi Range, Lemhi County, Idaho, was investigated using data from field observations analyzed by the programs TWINSPAN and CANOCO (CCA). Percent cover of vegetation and environmental data were recorded for 77 plots. Eight communities were identified and described with respect to apparent habitat preferences. The most frequent communities are characterized by a) Carex rupestris, b) Carex elynoides, and c) Calamagrostis purpurascens-Carex elynoides. An exposure gradient showed the strongest correlation with the community distribution, but substrate, elevation, and slope were also found to be important. In general, the study area communities present a uniformly dry turf-like physiognomy, with some early snowbed and Dryas or Salix mat communities occasionally present.
41424320|We present information clarifying the past and present role of the native perennial grass Stipa pulchra in the California grassland. Stipa pulchra occupies a diverse array of habitats in northern and central California, as shown from information collected on more than 1500 plots by the State Cooperative SoilVegetation Survey. Stipa pulchra did not increase in density over a 20-year period in ungrazed areas on the Hopland Field Station in northern California and was replaced by other perennial grasses and annuals on some plots. Stipa pulchra germinated more slowly than associated annual plants and S. pulchra seedlings apparently did not survive the period of rapid spring growth in annual grassland. In pot trials fewer S. pulchra germinated and plants grew poorly when grown with high densities of Bromus mollis and Festuca megalura. High densities of B. mollis limited S. pulchra growth more dramatically than high densities of F. megalura. We suggest that S. pulchra is the most common California native grass not because the species dominated the original California grassland, but because it is favored by disturbances common now. Disturbances that reduce associated annuals are important for colonization by S. pulchra.
43288619|Tanoaks, Notholithocarpus densiflorus (Hook. & Arn.) Manos, Cannon & S. H. Oh, are being killed by sudden oak death, caused by the pathogen Phytophthora ramorum Werres, de Cock & Man in't Veld. However, very little is known about the basic ecology of the species. Here we investigate the pollination ecology of tanoaks using insect-visitor observations along with a pollinator-exclusion study. Insect-visitor observations were conducted by citizen-scientist volunteers at three different sites in the Midpeninsula Regional Open Space District lands in the Coast Range of California in 2009. Pollinator exclusions were conducted over two years (2009, 2010), using veil bags to prevent insects from reaching female flowers at the Blodgett Forest Research Station in the Sierra Nevada foothills. Microsatellite markers were used to infer selling or outcrossing for the developing acorns. The citizen scientists observed 148 insect visitors to tanoak flowers over 11.5 hours of observation (in 65 observation periods). Pollinator exclusion resulted in lower fruit set and higher rates of selfing. The data suggest that tanoak is primarily an insect-pollinated species, though some level of wind pollination is likely. There is a diverse community of insects visiting tanoak flowers. In order to understand the importance of tanoaks to the native insect community, future research needs to focus on identifying the composition of the insect community, and the extent to which they rely on tanoak pollen and nectar as a food source.
41424836|Section Cuneifolia is one of the smallest but most discrete sections in the large genus Primula. Its three members are characterized by cunate leaves with dentate margins, globose capsules, and involute leaf vernation, and they are geographically distributed between the Sea of Okhotsk in Asia east to the Sierra Nevada of California.The three North American taxa are P. cuneifolia subsp. cuneifolia, P. cuneifolia subsp.saxifragifolia, and P. suffrutescens. Primula cuneifolia subsp. saxifragifolia is redefined here on the basis of its self-fertile homostylous flowers. It probably originated in the late Pleistocene at the edge of the Alaskan ice sheets when climatic perturbations disrupted the pollinator fauna. Section Cuneifolia is most closely allied to the widely disjunct sect. Auricula found in the mountains of central Europe. Although small, sect.Cuneifolia may have phylogenetic significance at the generic and family level due to its developmental patterns, biogeography, and reproductive biology.
41425119|Spring flowering of some woody plants in the Sonoran Desert is triggered by the first substantial rain of the cool season. The columnar cactus Carnegiea gigantea, as a massive succulent, might be expected to use internal moisture reserves for flower production, thus blooming independently of rainfall. To investigate the environmental signals for flowering in this species, phenological data were collected for 7 to 10 plants from 1967-1988 at Tumamoc Hill, Tucson, Arizona. Climatic and flowering data from 1978-1988 were used to model developmental requirements for the annual peak bloom in May. The models suggested that flowering of Carnegiea is controlled by cool-season rain, increasing daylength, and a combination of increasing solar radiation and warming temperatures. A cool-season (November-March) rain of at least 5-9 mm is probably the initial trigger; a post-solstice photoperiod of about 10.5 hr is the second. After days reach 10.5 hours in length, solar thermal units (daily mean temperature  total daily solar radiation) above a base temperature of 10C must accumulate to about 489,500 for half the population to flower. Precisely timed seed release is vital to reproductive success in this species. In effect, the rainfall trigger coordinates flowering with soil-moisture availability, and the daylength trigger ensures seed release at the most favorable season for germination.
41425459|During a natural history expedition to Guadalupe Island and its adjacent islets in June of 2000, the previously unexplored islet, Toro, was botanically surveyed. The flora of this islet was found to have 32 species and one putative interspecific hybrid. This diversity represents 30 dicots and 2 monocots, in 22 plant families. Eighteen of the plant taxa are endemic to the Guadalupe Island group, resulting in a 56.3% endemism in the islet's flora. A few native plant communities were observed on the islet, within which only three plant taxa are obviously exotic, rare in occurrence, and presumably introduced by seabirds. The botanical data obtained from this undisturbed islet helps us to fill in the missing pieces about the overall flora of Guadalupe Island and its adjacent islets especially in relation to the ecological devastation caused by feral goats on the main island. Brief notes on other floristic components of Guadalupe Island and its islets, and new plant records collected during the expedition are also presented. Durante una expedicin para estudiar la historia natural de la Isla Guadalupe e islotes adyacentes, en junio de 2000, inventariamos la flora del islote Toro, que nunca haba sido explorado. En este islote encontramos 32 especies de plantas y un aparente hbrido interespecfico, incluyendo 30 dicotiledonas y 2 monocotiledonas, de 22 familias. Dieciocho de los taxa son endmicos a la Isla Guadalupe e islotes adyacentes, por lo tanto Toro tiene una tasa de endemismo de 56.3%. Se encontraron algunas comunidades de plantas nativas, en las que solamente 3 taxa eran exticas, poco abundantes, probablemente introducidas por aves marinas. La informacin botnica de este islote sin disturbio puede ayudarnos a llenar las piezas faltantes de la flora de Guadalupe, especialmente en relacin con la devastacin ecolgica causada por cabras en la isla principal. Adems, en este artculo presentamos notas breves sobre otros componentes florsticos de la Isla Guadalupe y sus islotes, y nuevos registros de plantas colectadas durante la expedicin.
41424760|Siphonoglossa mexicana (Acanthaceae), a new species from Mexico, is described and illustrated. The new species is most closely related to S. ramosa and S. canbyi of Siphonoglossa sect. Siphonoglossa. Characters, variation patterns, and reproductive biology of the species are discussed with direct reference to an earlier treatment that combined S. ramosa, S. discolor, and S. hondurensis under the name S. sessilis. Siphonoglossa ramosa and S. sessilis are retained as distinct species, and the new combinations, S. ramosa var. discolor and S. ramosa var. hondurensis, are proposed. Additionally, S. calcarea of northern Colombia is reduced to a variety of S. sessilis. Siphonoglossa mexicana Acanthaceae, una nueva especie de Mexico, es descrita y ilustrada. La nueva especie parece estar mas relacionada a S. ramosa y S. canbyi de Siphonoglossa seccion Siphonoglossa. Characteres, modelos de variacin y biologia reproductiva de la especie son discutidas con referencia a un tratamiento anterior que combina S. ramosa, S. discolor y S. hondurensis bajo el nombre S. sessilis. Siphonoglossa ramosa y S. sessilis se mantienen como especies distinctas, y las nuevas combinaciones, S. ramoso var. discolor y S. ramosa var. hondurensis, son propuestas. Adicionalmente, S. calcarea de el norte de Colombia se reduce a variedad de S. sessilis.
41424743|Allium sanbornii and related taxa present a confusing array from south-central Oregon to the Sierra Nevada foothills of central California. Previous attempts at classification have, generally, been unsuccessful due to a paucity of representative material. Herbarium and field studies were initiated to increase available material and to ascertain if previously overlooked characteristics could be found that would elucidate relationships within the group. Based on these investigations, A. sanbornii is divided into two varieties, var. congdonii and var. sanbornii, and two previously recognized varieties, yar. jepsonii and var. tuolumnense are elevated to specific status. A key to, and distribution map of, the taxa are presented and relationships within the complex are discussed.
41425137|Artemisia tridentata (sagebrush), la especie vegetal dominante en el desierto de Great Basin en Sierra Nevada (EEUU), es excluida en los suelos formados por la alteracin hidrotermal de la roca madre. Para testar la hiptesis de que deficiencias nutricionales impiden el crecimiento de esta especie en este tipo de suelo, sometimos a plntulas de Artemisia tridentata a los siguientes tratamientos en un diseo factorial completo: media fuerza solucin Hoagland's con N, media fuerza solucin Hoagland's con P,  media fuerza solucin Hoagland's con pH 8.5 modificado mediante la adicin de NaHCO. La tasa de crecimiento de las plntulas fu significativamente ms alta con los tratamientos que contenan P, mientras que no tuvo ningn efecto los tratamientos con N o NaHCO. Nuestros resultados sugieren que Artemisia tridentata poda estar excluida de los suelos formados a partir de roca madre alterada hidrotermalmente debido a la baja disponibilidad de fsforo en este tipo de suelos. Artemisia tridentata (sagebrush), the dominant plant species in the Great Basin desert of Sierra Nevada (USA), is excluded from soils derived from hydrothermally altered rock in this environment. To test for nutritional deficiencies for growth of sagebrush in this type of soil, we applied to sagebrush seedlings one of the following treatments in a full factorial design: half-strength Hoagland's plus N, half-strength Hoagland's plus P, or Hoagland's solution with pH modified to 8.5 by addition of NaHCO 3 . The growth rate of seedlings was significantly highest in the P treatment, with no effect in the N or NaHCO treatments. Our results suggest that sagebrush may be excluded from hydrothermally altered soil by low P availability.
41424423|Needle number per fascicle has been used to distinguish two varieties of pine (Pinus engelmannii Carr., and P. engelmannii var. blancoi). This character, along with needle length and the number of rows and number of stomates per mm of row, was studied in pines growing over an elevational gradient in Durango, Mexico. Differences in needle number per fascicle were found to represent clinal variation within the species: a gradual increase in needle number occurred with altitude and age. Seeds from 5-needled pines, grown for 21 months in the laboratory under dry conditions, confirmed this by producing predominantly 3-needled seedlings.
41424785|Morphological investigations of Leptodactylon californicum revealed several distinct trichome types and patterns of trichome distribution among mostly allopatric geographic races of this species. Furthermore, pubescence characters correlate with discrete geographical regions. Some differences in leaf morphology were also noted, and correlate with trichome patterns and geographical distributions. Morphological variation, in conjunction with geographical distribution, is sufficient to warrant the recognition of five subspecific taxa. The two existing subspecies names, californicum and glandulosum, are retained, and three new subspecies, brevitrichomum, tomen tosum, and leptotrichomum, are recognized.
41424639|Fifty-seven herbaceous and suffrutescent species common after fire in chaparral were tested for their response to charred wood and heat shock of 120C for five minutes. Over half of the species germinated readily without either treatment. These included all of the herbaceous perennial monocots, most herbaceous perennial dicots, and a number of annuals. In most species, the heat treatment reduced germination and only one species was stimulated significantly by heat. Forty-two percent of the species showed significant enhancement of germination with charred wood. For some perennials, such as Penstemon spectabilis and Romneya coulteri, and an annual, Papaver californicum, there was a near obligatory requirement for charred wood. Significant enhancement of germination in the presence of charred wood is now known for species in 10 plant families: Asteraceae, Boraginaceae, Brassicaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Hydrophyllaceae, Onagraceae, Papaveraceae, Polemoniaceae, Rubiaceae, and Scrophulariaceae. Several fire-following species, Eucrypta chrysanthemifolia and Dicentra spp., failed to germinate under any treatment.
41425613|In the 1920s and 1930s Albert Everett Wieslander and several others explored much of California's wilderness sampling vegetation, taking photographs, collecting specimens, and drawing detailed maps of what they found. The collection is now known as the Wieslander Vegetation Type Mapping (VTM) collection, and the entire survey encompassed nearly seventy million acres of the state, covering most of the wild areas exclusive of the deserts and the larger agricultural areas. These data represent a valuable resource for comparative and conservation ecology. We are digitizing the entire project, and making it available to researchers and the public. The current "VTM Digitization" Project, as it is known, is described in this article, and is a collaborative effort by teams at University of California Berkeley and University of California Davis, funded by the U. S. Forest Service and U. S. Department of Agriculture's Cooperative State Research, Education and Extension Service. The VTM Digitization Project aims to digitize the entire VTM collection for use in ecological and geospatial analyses, and to facilitate access and distribution of the data by researchers and interested parties. This article describes our efforts at making the VTM plot data, maps and photographs digital, spatially referenced, readily available, and web-accessible via an Internet-based Geographic Information System (webGIS) application. In addition, we discuss potential uses for the data and caveats associated with its use, particularly spatial accuracy.
41425314|Character polymorphism is widespread and species delimitation is unresolved among 11 species of Malacothamnus currently recognized in California and Baja California. To evaluate variation among characters used in previous taxonomic treatments and to identify characters most useful for discriminating among four species closely associated with M. fasciculatus, we analyzed 26 morphological characters from 46 exemplar specimens using cluster, ordination, and statistical analyses. Although many vegetative and reproductive characters exhibited high levels of variation among and within OTU's, bractlet and calyx characters demonstrated maximum utility for discriminating among species in principal components and discriminant functions analyses. OTU's representing previously segregated "varieties" of M. fasciculatus (Torrey & A. Gray) E. Greene did not group together nor did conspecific OTU's, except for three OTU's representing the San Clemente Island endemic, M. clementinus (Munz & I. M. Johnston) Kearney. The absence of well-defined gaps in many characters and intergradation resulting from gene flow and/or recent divergence from ancestral species impede delimitation at the species and infraspecific levels whether a phenetic or phylogenetic approach is employed. Malacothamnus fasciculatus and M. fremontii A. Gray are particularly variable and difficult to define unambiguously using morphological data.
41425545|Protogyny in an andromonoecious apioid, Cymopterus beckii, is described. This rare western endemic of Capitol Reef National Park, and a few other sites in Utah and Arizona, is unusual in producing only inflorescences with compound primary umbels; secondary and tertiary umbels are absent. Outer flowers of umbels produce significantly higher percentages of pistillate flowers than do inner flowers. On average, approximately 1.5 staminate flowers are produced for each pistillate flower. Within umbels, dichogamy is complete: female parts of pistillate flowers throughout the umbel mature first, followed by staminates.The small flowers are visited by a variety of flies, beetles, wasps and bees, few of which appear to carry pollen. Bees in the family Halictidae may be the most important pollinators, but additional studies are required to establish this.
41424974|Several indices characterizing prefire size and structure of Adenostomafasciculatum shrubs were measured in a chaparral stand slated for an experimental burn. Burl concentrations of total nonstructural carbohydrates (TNC) were also assessed. Following the fire, aboveground biomass production during the first postfire year was determined. In addition, a shading experiment was implemented after the fire to assess the contribution of current photosynthesis of sprouts to postfire sprouting vigor. Postfire biomass production was positively correlated with prefire shrub size, but negatively correlated with prefire dead stem area and percent dead stem area. Burl TNC concentrations showed no patterns with respect to prefire shrub size, the percent dead stem area, or postfire sprouting vigor. Reducing incident sunlight with shadecloth resulted in significant reductions in postfire biomass production. Our results suggest that stands of A. fasciculatum having high components of standing dead biomass sprout less vigorously after fire.
41424326|There are more than 80 local floras for Arizona that provide information on current and past plant distributions. They are briefly summarized. Although many areas in Arizona have been intensively botanized, floras are still lacking for some important regions.
41425325|Given the key role played by biogenic hydrocarbons (BHC's) in photochemical smog formation and atmospheric chemistry, it is critical to generate accurate BHC emission inventories. Assembling such inventories requires reliable characterization of the areal coverage of important plant species in order to quantify the biomass of BHC-emitting vegetation. A recent GIS-based description of vegetation coverage in the natural areas of San Diego County is provided by the Gap Analysis Program (GAP) database. We conducted an assessment of this database through ground-based vegetation surveys prior to using the database to develop a BHC emission inventory for southern California. Quantitative vegetation surveys were conducted along belt transects in four polygons dominated by trees and along line transects in four polygons dominated by shrubs, in order to determine percent cover of major plant species. The species listed by GAP accounted for two-thirds to three-quarters of the relative cover in these selected polygons. About 60% of the species listed by GAP were found in high enough proportions in the field surveys to justify their listing. Summed over all eight polygons, BHC emission indices based on GAP data correlated with BHC emission indices generated with data from our field surveys. On balance, we judge the GAP GIS database to be a useful source of species composition and dominance information for the purpose of assembling BHC emission inventories, provided supplementary data on crown volumes are available from the literature or can be obtained in the field.
41425115|Invasion of Northern Oak Woodland by Pseudotsuga menziesii [Mirb.] Franco has been observed throughout the outer North Coast Range, including the Sonoma Mountains of southern Sonoma County, California. Studies at Annadel State park, reported here, include the correlation of physical and vegetational factors with P. menziesii dominance. Significant negative correlations were found between P. menziesii seedling and sapling densities, and (1) the distance to a seed source, (2) the cover of annual grasses, and (3) total living ground cover. A significant positive correlation was found between P. menziesii seedling and sapling densities and the percentage of the ground surface covered by leaf litter. A significant positive correlation was also found between P. menziesii sapling density and the basal area of trees of any species occurring on the sample plots. Stand age analysis revealed that Quercus spp. found on the sample plots were consistently much older that the oldest P. menziesii observed. This observation also applied to sites dominated by P. menziesii. Surges of P. menziesii establishment appear to be related to changes in management of the region, including fire suppression, increased oak canopy density, and the establishment of the state park. These results suggest that events which have changed the character and dynamics of the Northern Oak Woodland within this century have in turn produced conditions favorable to the establishment of P. menziesii. This pattern of P. menziesii invasion will result in a reduction of biological diversity in this region of Northern California.
41426248|Floral composition, stand structure, and successional relationships were studied in a stand of broadleaf evergreen forest in the East San Francisco Bay Hills, Hayward, Alameda County, California. Data from this study furnishes the first detailed profile of the woody plant communities in the Hayward Hills and provides a model for comparisons with other East Bay woodlands. Three main vegetational types were identified and characterized: a lower, bay (Umbellularia californica) woodland/forest; an upper, oak (Quercus agrifolio) woodland; and a central, apparently transitional oak-bay woodland; each vegetation type is defined by a distinctive tree-shrub assemblage. The author found good evidence to support McBride's (1974) paradigm of East Bay plant succession, i.e., a general movement toward a bay-dominated community and away from an oak-dominated assemblage. On the study site tree-fall of dead madrone (Arbutus menziesii) has opened much of the canopy and may be affecting the rate of this successional pattern.
41425835|Juncus marginatus is native in eastern North America, west to Arizona. Recent California treatments considered it a native species, and rare. Its collection history in Oregon and California was examined to determine if those populations are native or introduced. The earliest Oregon records are 1991 from disturbed sites. The earliest Calfornia records are from disturbed mining sites in 1965 and 1971. At least one California population is associated with exotic cranberry, Vaccinium macro car pon, a documented vector for transport of propagules of wetland species native to eastern North America. Eight other Juncus species native to eastern North America are naturalized in the Pacific States, lending support to introduced status for J. marginatus in California. Subsequent discoveries of J. marginatus in Oregon and California suggest the species is expanding its adventive range into less disturbed plant communities.
41425596|We used Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) to investigate genetic variation in eight populations of the vernal pool endemic Navarretia leucocephala Benth. in eastern Washington. Five of the populations were subspecies minima, collected in Spokane County. The other three populations were subspecies diffusa, a recently described taxon known only from adjacent Lincoln County in eastern Washington. We also sampled a nearby vernal pool population of N. intertexta (Benth.) Hook., a closely related species whose range overlaps with N. leucocephala. Distances among the sampled pools ranged from a few tens of meters to 80 km. The populations differed in their levels of genetic variation, with proportions of polymorphic loci ranging from 10% to 55% and mean gene diversities from 0.05 to 0.30. Analysis of Molecular Variance (AMOVA) among the eight N. leucocephala populations showed significant spatial structuring, with 52% of the observed genetic variation due to differences between the Spokane County and Lincoln County populations. Within each county, 10% - 34% of the genetic variation was due to differences among populations. Estimates of ST indicated significant population differentiation among all populations of N. leucocephala (ST = 0.65), but the degree of differentiation varied with interpopulation distance. Populations 35-250 m apart were generally not differentiated. At a distance of 1100-1800 m, some populations showed significant differentiation and others did not. Populations 80 km apart were significantly differentiated. On a distance-based phenogram, N. intertexta separated clearly from the N. leucocephala populations, which also grouped by subspecies, suggesting that the morphological features used to differentiate the taxa are paralleled by genetic differences.
41425283|The alpine flora of the Buffalo Peaks, twin volcanic mountains in the Mosquito Range of central Colorado, was surveyed during the summers of 1994 and 1995. A total of 173 species from 32 families and 99 genera were collected, including two species endemic to Colorado and one not native to North America.
41425044|The name Quercus pennivenia Trel. has been applied by many authors to an easily distinguished population of black oaks (Quercus, sect. Lobatae) from the group Racemiflorae that occurs in the northern Sierra Madre Occidental in northeastern Sinaloa, northwestern Durango, southeastern Sonora, and southwestern Chihuahua. The type of Q. pennevenia was collected south of this area and belongs to Q. urbanii Trel.sensu stricto. The northern population is herein named Q. tarahumara R. Spellenberg, J. Bacon & D. Breedlove, honoring the indigenous people whose lands this species inhabits. It is distinguished by its short and crowded pistillate inflorescences from Q.urbanii Trel. and Q. radiata Rose, both of which have long and uncrowded pistillate inflorescences. Quercus tarahumara usually also has denser glandular pubescence, and sparser stellate pubescence on the abaxial surface of the leaves. El nombre Quercus pennivenia Trel. ha sido usado por muchos autores como el nombre de una populacin fcilmente distinguida que localiza en el norte parte del Sierre Madre Occidental, en el noreste de Sinaloa, el noroeste de Durango, el sureste de Sonora, y el suroeste de Chihuahua. El tipo de Q. pennivenia fue colectado al sur de esta populacin y esta incluido en Q. urbanii Trel. sensu stricto. La populacin del norte esta descrito aqu como Q. tarahumara R. Spellenberg., J. Bacon & D.Breedlove, en referencia a las inflorescencias pistiladas breves y densas, que se sirve distinguir la especie nueva de Q. urbanii y Q. radiata Rose, ambos lo que tienen inflorescencias pistiladas largas y no compacta. Quercus tarahumara tambin usualmente tiene peloso glanduloso muy denso, y peloso estrellado mas disperso, en el envs de las hojas.
41426249|We have reviewed the taxonomic status of Lupinus cusickii S. Watson, a rare Oregon lupine. Our research included study of herbarium collections, field populations, and a taximetric comparison of L. cusickii with related taxa. Lupinus cusickii is an element of the Lupinus caespitosus-lepidus complex and is best treated taxonomically as L. lepidus var. cusickii. Although the L. caespitosus-lepidus complex is widely distributed throughout western North America, var. cusickii is known from only five sites, all in western Baker County, Oregon. Further field survey work will be needed to determine the full extent of its distribution and its status as a rare and possibly endangered plant taxon. Keys and diagnoses to the varieties of L. lepidus occurring in eastern Oregon are presented.
41426218|Members of Coreopsis sects. Pugiopappus and Euleptosyne primarily produce flavones and anthochlors (chalcones and aurones) in their leaves. No consistent chemical differences distinguish the two sections, and flavonoids support the concept that they are closely related. In several instances, a species from one section is more similar chemically to a member of the other section than it is to other members of the same section. There is, in general, nonconcordance between morphological and chemical similarity among species in the two sections. Chemical data support the hypothesis that sects. Pugiopappus and Euleptosyne are more closely related to Mexican elements than they are to any other North American Coreopsis.
41425182|The widely used term "Riversidian sage scrub" distinguishes coastal sage scrub in interior cismontane southern California from stands elsewhere but does not account for the considerable variation among stands within the region. Coastal sage scrub classification has generally emphasized either regional or floristic variation. We collected data at 181 coastal sage scrub sites in western Riverside County and classified them using multivariate cluster analyses of structural and floristic variables of shrub canopies. Roughly half of the sites fell into seven coastal sage scrub "series," largely comparable to the six interior basin "associations" described by Kirkpatrick and Hutchinson (1977). Our analysis splits Kirkpatrick and Hutchinson's Artemisia californica-Eriogonum fasciculatum-Salvia apiana association into three series; we did not sample their Lepidospartum squamatum-Eriodictyon crassifolium-Yucca whipplei association; and we recognize a deer weed series not sampled in their work.Similarities to the earlier analysis indicate that classification of this vegetation is largely repeatable, while discrepancies result from differing methodology and interpretation. The large proportion of unclassified plots suggests that these series represent segments of continua rather than discrete communities. We encourage land use planners to recognize variation among coastal sage scrub series within geographic regions to assure adequate conservation planning.
41424371|The results of detrended correspondence analysis indicate that elevation is well correlated with vegetation differences and that topographic-moisture conditions are also important. Gradients of these two environmental factors are used as axes for plotting the distribution of 15 general vegetation types. Superimposed on the resulting vegetation chart are isolines of tree density, basal area, tree cover, woody plant richness, and woody plant diversity (1/C). It is concluded that the vegetation of the park is better considered as a series of continua rather than as discrete units. This perspective produces suggestions for future research and supports expanded use of gradient analysis techniques in studies of the vegetation of the Sierra Nevada.
41425282|The alpine habitat of Hasley Basin in the Elk Mountains of central Colorado was surveyed for its vascular flora in the summers of 1994, 1995, and 1996. A total of 209 species from 35 families and 109 genera were collected, including ten Colorado endemics and one species endemic to the Southern Rocky Mountains.
41426295|Delphinium gypsophilum Ewan consists of both diploid and tetraploid individuals, but the type of polyploidy (allo-vs. autopolyploidy) has not been documented. Cytotyping using flow cytometry indicated that some populations were 2n, others were 4n, and several had mixed ploidy. Triploid individuals represented approximately 20% of the sampled plants. There appears to be little geographic structuring of cytotypes. Progeny arrays from controlled crosses provided evidence favoring tetrasomic inheritance, and Delphinium gypsophilum has allozyme banding patterns that are consistent with autotetraploidy. Genetic data indicate that polyploids may have formed recurrently, but the exact number of origins and specific progenitor-derivative relationships remain uncertain. Conservation efforts should manage the two cytotypes separately, as they represent potentially different evolutionary units.
41424805|Viguiera Kunth subg. Bahiopsis (Kellogg) stat. nov. includes twelve taxa of shrubby perennials from the Sonoran Desert of the Baja California Peninsula and nearby xeric areas that were previously included as part of V. ser. Viguiera (V. ser. Dentatae S. F.Blake). The subgenus is characterized by apomorphies involving chromosome, chemical, and molecular data but is not diagnosed by any single morphological trait, although members exhibit a distinctive combination of traits, including woody habit, phyllaries that have an indurated base and an abruptly narrowed, herbaceous apex, and leaves with subsessile glandular trichomes. The diploid species of the subgenus are well differentiated from one another, particularly by vegetative features, but the polyploid taxa are less well distinguished from each other and from related diploids, making some identifications problematical. The diploid species exhibit a series of parapatric geographic distributions, with the polyploid ones overlapping one or more diploids. A key to species of the subgenus, including the novelty here described, V. carterae, is presented and comments on typification of several species are included. Se incluye en Viguiera Kunth subg. Bahiopsis (Kellogg) stat. nov. doce txones de arbustos perennes nativos del desierto de Sonora de Baja California y areas ridas adyacentes, los cuales originalmente estaban incluidos en la ser. Viguiera (ser. Dentatae S. F. Blake). Se ha demostrado que el subgnero est caracterizado por apomorfias tales como el nmero cromosmico y caractersticas qumicas y moleculares, ms no por ningn carcter morfolgico en particular, aunque los miembros exhiben una combinacin de caracteres distinctiva que incluyen un hbito leoso, filaras con una base indurada y un pice herbceo angosto, y por tricomas semisesiles glandulares. Las especies diploides del subgnero estn bien diferenciadas unas de otras, particularmente por rasgos vegetativos, ms los txones poliploides son difciles de distinguir entre ellos mismos y de diploides afines. Las especies diploides exhiben una serie de distribuciones geogrficas paraptricas, con las especies poliploides sobreimponiendose a una o varias de stas. Se provee una clave para el subgnero, la cual incluye la nueva especie V. carterae, al igual que comentarios sobre la tipificacin de las especies incluidas.
41702386|The holotype of Arctostaphylos hooveri P. V. Wells, cited as having been deposited in the Robert F. Hoover Herbarium, California Polytechnic State University (OBI), apparently is not extant. The isotype deposited in the University Herbarium (UC) at the University of California, Berkeley (Hoover & Wells 1960  UC 1218855) is designated as the lectotype, and the isotype in the California Academy of Science Herbarium (CAS 423565) is thereby an isolectotype. Hoover 8520 (OBI 175682) is recognized as a paratype.
41425492|Variable temperature and precipitation in hot deserts interact to trigger germination of ephemeral plants; however, in the Sonoran Desert, little information is available on how these winter ephemeral plant communities vary among localities and how the seed bank contributes to the above ground diversity. This study quantifies the similarity in seed banks (below ground flora) of winter ephemeral plants among sites and the relationship to the above ground flora. In November 1999, ninety-five soil samples were collected across four Sonoran Desert localities and germinated in a glass house under site temperature and light conditions and were misted daily. In February 2001, when winter rains were sufficient to germinate winter ephemerals in situ, the same four localities were revisited and data were taken on the genera present within plots. The Jaccard Similarity Index, Margalef Diversity Index, lists of taxa, and densities of common taxa were compared among sites and between the seed bank and above ground flora. Overall, seed bank similarity of taxa among sites averaged 41% whereas the above and below ground data averaged 49% similarity. Only three of 36 genera were present in the seed bank and above ground flora in all sites: Pectocarya DC. ex Meisn.(Boraginaceae), Eucrypta Nutt. (Hydrophyllaceae), and Amsinckia Lehm. (Boraginaceae); the density of these varied significantly among sites and between above and below ground floras. The Poaceae taxa, Poa bigelovii Vasey & Scribn., Vulpia octoflora (Walter) Rydb., Schismus arabicus Nees, and Bromus rubens L., were notably dominant in the seed bank while less dense in the above ground flora. Due to the variability of seed banks and above ground floras, adding seed bank analysis to the above ground vegetation data taken in most studies would enhance our understanding of overall site diversity.
41425614|Streptanthus vernalis is a newly described species inhabiting serpentine rock outcrops in the Three Peaks area in Lake County, California. Morphological and allozyme data indicate that this taxon is related to the S. morrisonii complex.
41425539|This catalogue documents 596 mosses for California with III taxa newly reported for the state. Thirty taxa previously reported for California have been excluded. The California moss flora is comprised of 163 genera in 49 families. A new combination, Lescuraea pallida, is proposed.
41424285|Quercus douglasii (blue oak) forms the dominant element of foothill woodland communities in the lower foothill zone of Sequoia National Park below 500 m on northfacing slopes and 600800 m on south-facing slopes. Small stands of this species occur up to 1500 m on dry slopes with relatively deep soils. Densities of Q. douglasii range from 111321 trees per hectare. Soils beneath stands of Q. douglasii are significantly lower in total nitrogen, total phosphorus, and organic matter content than adjacent sites with mixed-evergreen woodland. Maximum water stress during the end of a two year drought in 1977 reached50 bars with little overnight recovery. Moderately low summer water potentials were also present in 1978, a wet year, but with overnight recovery to relatively low dawn stress. Mean levels of precipitation in 1979 produced intermediate values of water potential. Phenological patterns of Q. douglasii are variable among sites studied. Stem elongation begins in February or March and continues for 23 months. Leaf production began as stem elongation slowed in two sites but occurred contemporaneously with stem elongation at a third. Leaf fall occurs within a month after maximum water stress is reached. Catkins are developed from preformed buds from the previous growing season. No flowering was observed during the spring of 1978, despite abundant precipitation, because of the preceding two-year drought. Establishment of seedlings is an irregular event related to environmental stress, predation, and land-use history including fire frequency. The greatest proportion of trees at Sequoia National Park are estimated to be 60100 years in age, with few young trees present.
41424898|Chromosome counts are reported for 55 collections of 38 species representing eight genera in Scrophulariaceae, mostly from California. Chromosome numbers of 17 species are reported here for the first time, including Collinsia linearis, Lamarouxia dasyantha, Mimulus arenarius, M. bicolor, M. bolanderi, M. breweri, M. filicaulis, M.layneae, M. latidens, M. pictus, M. pilosellus, M. pygmaeus, M. torreyi, M. tricolor, Pedicularis attolens, P. semibarbata, and Penstemon purpusii. The species of Lamarouxia do not appear to be cytologically uniform as haploid numbers of n = 7, 14, 15, and 16 have been recorded. The counts of n= 9, 18 for Mimulusprimuloides differ from a previous report of n = 17. Consistency of chromosome number appears to be characteristic of certain genera of Scrophulariaceae whereas variation due to polyploidy and aneuploidy occurs in others, especially the large, polymorphic genera Mimulus and Veronica.
41424489|Jatropha bullockii from Jalisco, Mxico, is described and illustrated and its relationships are discussed. The species is assigned to sect. Platyphyllae and appears most closely related to J. moranii.
41425179|Levels of genetic diversity were assessed in populations of three rare species of Lomatium and three of their more widespread congeners. Lomatium rollinsii, L. serpentinum, and L. laevigatum maintain significantly less intrapopulational isozymic variation than do the more widespread L. dissectum, L. grayi, and L. triternatum. The limited genetic diversity of these rare species may result from genetic bottlenecks associated with their origins and/or genetic drift in small populations. The patterns reported here support the general trend reported for many other comparisons of rare and widespread congeneric plant species.
41425116|Restoration of stands of the native bunchgrass Nassella pulchra (A. Hitchc.) Barkworth in the California grassland requires suitable germplasm and conditions favoring survival, reproduction, and recruitment. In a common garden experiment, growth patterns of two populations of Nassella pulchra were compared. Because defoliation by herbivory and burning are ubiquitous influences on the California grassland, and have been suggested as having potential for manipulating the balance of native and nonnative species, the response of each population to clipping in winter, winter and early spring, and late spring was also compared. The two populations exhibited genotypic variation in morphology, growth, and response to clipping. Clipping in winter had no significant effect on tiller number, number of infloresences, or leaf length. Clipping in winter and early spring significantly reduced number of tillers and inflorescences in plants from one population, grown from seed collected on a serpentine site, but not from the non-serpentine population. Clipping in late spring severely reduced tiller numbers, number of infloresences, and leaf length in plants from both sites. The need for use of local seed sources for restoration is well-recognized, but the characteristics of seed source site, as related to genetic characteristics, may also affect the success or failure of restoration efforts and management practices. In the populations studied, a perennial grassland restoration system using winter burning and/or grazing to influence annual grasses would not damage N. pulchra plants, but response to early spring treatments and frequency or duration of treatment varies by population.
41425905|The pollination ecology of Darlingtonia californica Torr., including especially the identity of its pollinators, has remained enigmatic for more than a century. The flowers of this well-known charismatic species are unusual in form and color, and have been the subject of much speculation. Accordingly, in this study we sought to identify D. californica's floral visitors and determine their potential effectiveness as pollinators, in the context of D. californica's unusual floral morphology. We also used hand-pollinations and emasculations to determine whether plants were pollen-limited at five study sites in northwest California, and to evaluate the potential for self-pollination in natural populations of D. californica. A generalist solitary bee, Andrena nigrihirta, visited and pollinated D. californica flowers at five sites in northern CA. Despite very low visitation rates, individual flowers at all study sites were predicted to receive at least one visit by A. nigrihirta. Other regular floral visitors included thrips and several species of spiders. Plants at all five study populations were found to be pollen-limited with respect to the number of seeds produced per capsule. Fruit and seed production by emasculated flowers indicated a large degree of cross-pollination. However, emasculated flowers did not produce as many fruits and seeds as unmanipulated flowers, suggesting that self-pollination contributes to D. californica reproductive success as well. Observations of A. nigrihirta on flowers revealed that the shape and orientation of D. californica's ovary and petals promote stigma contact both when pollinators enter and exit a flower, contrary to previous thought. Our findings provide evidence that D. californica is melittophilous, and suggest a resolution of the long-standing mystery surrounding the pollination of this rare species.
41424299|Portulaca johnstonii, distinguished by two radial series of tapering, erect fimbriae around the seeds, is described from the Bolsn de Mapimi region of the Chihuahuan Desert, Coahuila, Mexico. It is most closely related to P. retusa.
41425581|Tragopogon mirus is a recently formed allotetraploid species, with Tragopogon dubius and Tragopogon porrifolius as the parental species. A study was conducted on Tragopogon populations in Oregon, USA to determine if T. dubius and T. porrifolius hybridization and subsequent polyploid speciation had occurred. We examined ploidy levels as well as nucleotide data from the chloroplast trnT-trnL spacer and nuclear ribosomal ITS regions. While no hybridization or polyploid speciation was found, a seven base pair length mutation found in the chloroplast trnT-trnL spacer region should prove useful for determining parentage in populations of T. mirus.
41426371|Pentagramma triangularte (Kaulfuss) Yatskievych, Windham, & E. Wollenweber subsp. rebmanii Winner and M. G. Simpson subsp. nov. is a new subspecies endemic to south-central to southeast San Diego County, California, USA, and inland, northwestern Baja California, Mexico. It is uncommon on seasonally moist, granitic-derived or gabbro-clay substrates, distinguishable from other Pentagramma triangularte subspecies by the scattered white farina on the adaxial blade surface and lightly scattered along the stipe. Pentagramma triangularis (Kaulfuss) Yaskievych, Windham, & E. Wollenweber subsp. rebmanii Winner and M. G. Simpson subsp. nov. es una subespecie endmica del centro-sur al sureste del Condado de San Diego, California, Estados Unidos de America, y del interior noreste de Baja California, Mxico. Esta planta poco comn crece sobre tierras estacionalmente hmedas derivadas de granito o de gabro, y es distinguible de otras subespecies de Pentagramma triangularis por la presencia de farina blanca desparramada en la superficie adaxial de la lmina y ligeramente por todo el estpite.
41425686|Streptanthus longisiliqus G. Clifton & R. Buck is described as a new species from Butte, Tehama, and Shasta counties in northeastern California. The new species is a short-lived perennial in subgenus Pleiocardia, informal group Cordati. Based on several morphological characters, S. longisiliqus appears to be most closely related to the montane southern California species S. bernardinus and S. campestris; it is geographically disjunct from those taxa by approximately 600 km. Streptanthus longisiliqus occurs in montane coniferous forest, often in localized openings, and sometimes in disturbed places.
41425863|Previous field studies of the reproductive biology of the San Fernando Valley spineflower, Chorizanthe parryi var. fernandina (S. Watson) Jeps. suggested that pollination by ants might be an important feature of this endangered polygonous taxon. This conclusion was based on observations that native ants were abundant floral visitors and constant to this species. We conducted the current study to explore more closely the possibility that native ants were facilitating pollination and resulting in viable seed set. Based on our data, ants can indeed be effective pollinators of spineflower. Fruit set was 57% higher in flowers exposed to ant visitation, compared to 27% in control flowers where ants were excluded. Further, a 25.7% germination rate was observed for achenes produced in the absence of ants, in contrast to a 61% rate in those produced in the presence of ants. We suggest that ant pollination may be more prevalent in drier climates, ant production of inhibitory substances may not be a severe limitation to their function as pollinators, invasive Argentine ants may pose a threat to plants pollinated by ants, and self-pollination may not be a negative attribute for ant pollinated plants.
41425298|Stephanomeria fluminea, a new species known only from northwestern Wyoming, is similar to the widespread S. tenuifolia (Torrey) H. M. Hall in characteristics of its heads, cypselae and pappus bristles, but has a distinct vegetative appearance because of its large cauline leaves that remain green at flowering.The new species grows only on raised, cobble benches in the shifting gravel beds of creeks and rivers, a habitat that is unique among all species of Stephanomeria.
43288618|Notholithocarpus densiflorus (Hook. & Arn.) Manos, Cannon & S.H. Oh (Fagaceae) (tanoak) needs immediate conservation attention due to the threat posed by Phytophthora ramorum Werres, de Cock & Man in't Veld, the water mold responsible for sudden oak death. This article explains the significant cultural value of tanoak and the seriousness of the sudden oak death threat. Current efforts to limit the spread of P. ramorum are not working adequately to prevent pathogen spread and maintain healthy ecosystems. The heartland of tanoak's distribution in northern California is at risk. I advocate for a collaborative process with tribal leadership to identify areas with mature tanoaks where traditional indigenous burning practices can be tested in combination with best management practices informed by western science. New approaches are needed to tend to tanoaks despite the sudden oak death pathogen and other threats.
41425500|Exomorphic and anatomical descriptions of leaves with domatia of two Terminalia species are given. Crypt-type domatia covered by trichomes were found in Terminalia triflora (Griseb.) Lillo and T. australis Cambess. They occur at the junction of primary and secondary veins, on the leaves abaxial surface. A key to the two species is provided. Se describe la exomorfologa y la anatoma de hojas con domacios en dos especies de Terminalia (Combretaceae). Los domacios se ubican en las axilas de las venas primaria y secundarias, en la cara abaxial de las hojas. Ambas especies de Terminalia, T. triflora (Griseb.) Lillo y T. autralis Cambess., presentan domacios foliares del tipo "en criptas" frecuentemente cubiertos por mechones de pelos. Se presenta una clave para facilitar la identificacin de ambas especies.
41425457|Crupina vulgaris, with populations in Sonoma and Modoc counties, is a relatively recent Mediterranean invader among the 1045 alien plant species naturalized in California, apparently introduced from the Iberian Peninsula. Although the genus Crupina comprises two species in Spain, only one is known in the Western Hemisphere. This study compiled distribution maps for both C. vulgaris and C. crupinastrum in the Iberian Peninsula using 939 collections from 17 herbaria in Spain and 154 locations recorded in the literature (floras, botanical explorations, and phytosociological studies). Crupina vulgaris is more common, with a distribution occupying most of the eastern half of the Peninsula, reaching north to the southern slopes of the Pyrenees Mountains which form the boundary between Spain and France. It is rare in the western third of the Peninsula, including Portugal, and is absent on the Balearic Islands. Found throughout the southeastern quadrant of the Peninsula and Mallorca in the Balearic Islands, Crupina crupinastrum is most abundant in the Andalusian provinces. In southeastern Spain where their distributions overlap, C. crupinastrum is more prevalent than C. vulgaris. Detailed distribution maps in the native range of invasive species are useful for understanding biological invasions, comparisons of native and introduced habitats, and searches for potential biological control agents. Crupina vulgaris es una planta de origen mediterrneo, de entre las 1045 especies naturalizadas en California, que se comporta como invasora y cuenta con poblaciones, relativamente recientes, en los condados de Sonoma y Modoc. Los estudios moleculares han demostrado que las cinco poblaciones norteamericanas derivan de 3 o ms introducciones procedentes de la Pennsula Ibrica. Aunque el gnero Crupina comprende dos especies en Espaa, solamente una es conocida en el hermisferio occidental. En este estudio se presentan los mapas de distribucin de C. vulgaris y C crupinastrum en la Pennsula Ibrica, obtenidas tras la revisin de 939 recolecciones encontradas en 17 herbarios de Espaa y 154 referencias bibliogrficas (floras, catlogos florsticos, y estudios fitosociolgicos). Crupina vulgaris es la especie ms comn, con una distribucin que ocupa la mitad oriental de la Pennsula, alcanzando hacia el Norte las vertientes meridionales de los Pirineos. Es rara en el tercio oeste, incluyendo Portugal, y est ausente en las islas Baleares. Presente en todo el cuadrante suroriental de la Pennsula y en Mallorca (islas Baleares), Crupina crupinastrum es ms abundante en las provincias andaluzas. En el Sureste de Espaa, donde ambas distribuciones se solapan, C. crupinastrum prevalece sobre C. vulgaris. Los mapas de distribucin detallados de las especies invasoras en su zona de origen, son tiles para comprender las invasiones, la comparacin entre habitat autctonos y alctonos, y las investigaciones para buscar potenciales agentes de control biolgico.
41424565|Lomatium cookii, a new species from vernal pools in the Agate Desert area near Medford, Oregon, is described and illustrated. The species appears to be local and rare. It is morphologically most similar to another rare Oregon endemic, Lomatium bradshawii, of the southern Willamette Valley, and to a northern California endemic, Lomatium humile.
41425466|Phylogenetic analysis of the DNA of a putative portion of the nuclear NADH-specific nitrate reductase gene revealed the existence of a Pinus jeffreyi lineage that gave rise to P. washoensis and the North Plateau race of P. ponderosa var. ponderosa. These data are consistent with Lauria's (1991) hypotheses that the North Plateau race is genetically distinct from the other races of the species, and that this race should be considered conspecific with P. washoensis.
41425912|Pentachaeta lyonii A. Gray is a state-and federally-listed endangered species, endemic to heavily invaded southern California grasslands. Recent population extirpations resulting in a decrease in range size have prompted investigation into the effects of invasive annual plants on this species. The goals of this study were (1) to examine the impacts of competition from non-native species from three different functional groups (annual grasses, early-season forbs, and late-season forbs) on P. lyonii success in the field and in pots, (2) to determine which non-native species/functional groups have the greatest competitive effect on P. lyonii, and (3) to evaluate the environmental conditions that contribute to the displacement of P. lyonii by non-native plants. In the field, at two sites over two years, control plots were paired with plots in which non-native competitors were clipped at the soil surface. In pots, individual P. lyonii plants were grown in competition with all three groups of nonnative competitors at both high and low density. In both the field and in the pots, all three non-native plant groups had negative effects on P. lyonii reproductive potential, with Centaurea melitensis L. having the greatest effect. The effects on P. lyonii height were variable among non-native competitors and between years. Comparisons made of environmental features of sites where P. lyonii has been extirpated to those where it persists suggested that the presence of annual grass is associated with P. lyonii extirpation. Management of P. lyonii presents a challenge considering the tendency of this species to coexist with non-native annual plants due to their common disturbance-dependence, and the ubiquity of European annuals in P. lyonii habitat.
41425366|Hedosyne Strother is a new genus based on Iva ambrosiifolia (A. Gray) A. Gray [= Euphrosyne ambrosiifolia A. Gray = Hedosyne ambrosiifolia (A. Gray) Strother]. Plants of Hedosyne differ from those of Iva s.s. in having leaves mostly alternate, leaf blades 1-3 times pinnately divided or lobed, and capitulescences paniculiform and either ebracteate or with 3-6+ heads per bract.
41424481|The two names Aster jessicae Piper and A. mollis Rydberg are considered synonymous in most currently used floristic works. As the older of the two, the name A. jessicae has been adopted. Piper designated (marked) as "type specimen" his own collection No. 2663, from Pullman, Washington (lectotype: US!), not his No. 1604, which was widely distributed prior to publication. Some sheets of the latter have been annotated erroneously as "isotypes" by other botanists. Rediscovery of a large population of A. mollis in the vicinity of the type locality (Sheridan County, Wyoming) has prompted a morphological, ecological, and cytological comparison. The results indicate that the two taxa are not conspecific. Aster jessicae (2n = 80) is endemic to river valleys of the Palouse country at elevations of 1000 m or less, whereas plants of A. mollis (2n = 32) have been collected only in dry, upper montane meadows of the Big Horn Mountains in north-central Wyoming (20003000 m). Evidence is presented that supports reinstatement of A. mollis at the rank of species.
41424487|Washoe pine, related to ponderosa pine but occurring at higher elevations along the western edge of the Great Basin, crosses freely with the Rocky Mountain race of ponderosa despite evidence of long-term separation. Washoe is morphologically distinct from the parapatric Pacific race of ponderosa pine, and the two taxa are kept separate partly by genetic barriers that reduce seed yield by about two-thirds. Washoe pine most closely resembles North Plateau ponderosa pine, and may be a late-Pleistocene offshoot of this race, which occupies the Pacific Northwest interior.
41425554|New populations and range extensions of Texosporium sancti-jacobi are reported from southern California, which include the first known record of the species from Ventura County. The preferred habitat of Texosporium is the mosaic of bare-soil patches associated with undisturbed open shrublands that are sparsely vegetated with native forbs, are free of exotic weeds, and support a well-developed biological soil crust. These "open-habitat soils" must become a focus of conservation activities if Texosporium, other rare crust organisms, small native annual dicots, and many insects are to persist in southern California.
41424535|All collections of the endemic species of Chamaesyce in the Galpagos Islands were reexamined. Results indicate that hybridization has taken place in several localities, notably on Isla Bartolom. Plants previously referred to C. nummularia and C.bindloensis from Bartolom are considered to be of hybrid origin, and C. bindloensis is placed in synonymy under C. punctulata, together with two other names that had been overlooked in the treatment of Chamaesyce in the Flora of the Galpagos Islands.
41424808|Potentilla cristae is known only from Cory Peak, Mt. Eddy, and Marble Mountains in the Klamath Region of northwestern California. It has been confused with P. flabellifolia; it is apparently related to P. brevifolia.
41426362|The calcareous soils in the San Bernardino National Forest host a group of endemic plant species, including five listed as federally endangered. The parent material for these soils is a very pure deposit of magnesium and calcium carbonate that is being actively mined. The mining operations produce copious quantities of dust. This study evaluated the quantity of dust moving across the landscape and depositing to the ecosystems, and the effect of carbonate dust on physiological parameters of a plant species acting as a surrogate for the endangered species. Most of the dust was found to deposit within one kilometer of the mining operations. Plants growing within the deposition zone had lower photosynthetic activity and less vigorous growth patterns. Several mitigation measures are recommended.
41425580|In this study, I investigated the effects of seed size and habitat on post-dispersal prdation of Quercus chrysolepis and Lithocarpus densiflora acorns in central coastal California. Tagged acorns were located at five distances across two forest-grassland ecotone sites. Although Q. chrysolepis acorns were nearly twice as large as those of L. densiflora, there was no significant difference in predation between the species or sites. There was, however, a significant difference in acorn predation between habitats, with both species having much higher rates of predation in the forest than in the grassland. While prdation occurred across the forest-grassland ecotone, acorn burial only occurred in the forest. These results suggest that habitat had a stronger effect on post-dispersal prdation than seed size.
41426262|Arctomecon (Papaveraceae) is composed of three rare gypsophilous species in the northeastern Mojave Desert. In order to effectively manage the remaining populations of these rare plants, which are increasingly being impacted by anthropogenic disturbance, the life history attributes, reproductive biology, vegetative associates and edaphic requirements were investigated for two species in southern Nevada: Arctomecon californica and A. merriamii. Loss of reproductive potential was highest for both species at the bud and capsule stages, and highest post-reproductive mortality occurred during the seedling stage. Arctomecon californica was reproductively selfincompatible, while A. merriamii was able to self-pollinate as well as outcross. Both species occurred in vegetation types that were quantitatively distinct and therefore unique relative to typical Mojave Desert plant assemblages. Arctomecon also occurred on gypsum-derived soils that were different from off-site locations, most notably in sulfur and calcium contents. Hypotheses as to why Arctomecon can establish on gypsum soil, and what role this soil requirement plays in the rarity of this taxa, are considered in light of these results. Habitat specificity, especially for A. californica, leads to the conclusion that gypsum outcrops must be preserved in order to ensure the survival of Arctomecon species in the Mojave Desert.
41424534|The taxonomic status of Lasthenia martima has been a subject of some disagreement largely because of the poor representation of this taxon in herbaria. The present study, based on field observation and morphological analyses of numerous additional collections, supports specific status. The closely related, self-incompatible L. minor occurs on mainland central California whereas the autogamous L. martima primarily occupies off-shore rocks and islands inhabited by breeding and roosting seabirds from central California to northern British Columbia. Morphological comparison indicates that the two taxa differ significantly in nine out of the 12 quantitative characters that were investigated. Although the two taxa can produce relatively fertile hybrids under greenhouse conditions, they maintain a high level of reproductive isolation under natural conditions.
41424861|Yermo xanthocephalus, a new genus and species from Wyoming, is described and illustrated. It appears most closely related to species of Cacalia Section Conophora (Mesadenia, Arnoglossum) that occur in eastern and midwestern North America. It is unique in the entire cacalioid group and nearly unique in the family Asteraceae in having yellow involucral bracts. It also has yellow corollas, which are very rare in the cacalioid group.
41425684|A natural hybrid, Prunus pugetensis A. L. Jacobson & Zika, is described as the cross between introduced Prunus avium (L.) L. of Eurasia, and indigenous P. emarginata (Douglas ex Hook.) Eaton of western North America. It is intermediate in morphology, differing from P. avium in its pubescence, more slender leaves, smaller flowers, and peduncled inflorescences. It can be separated from P. emarginata by its broader leaves with coarser teeth, larger flowers with weakly notched petals, and occasional umbellate inflorescences. Unlike the parents, more than 99% of the flowers eventually abort and it rarely produces fruit. Spontaneous hybrids have been found in the lowlands of western British Columbia, Washington, and Oregon. Lectotypes are selected for Cerasus californica Greene, Cerasus emarginata Douglas ex Hook., Cerasus erecta C. Presl, Cerasus kelloggiana Greene, Cerasus mollis Douglas ex Hook., and Prunus corymbulosa Rydb.
41425786|Recent field work and examination of specimens at CAS, MICH, MO, NY, SFSU, UBC and uc lead us to conclude that Bestia longipes, contrary to some earlier literature reports, is endemic to coastal regions of north-central to southern California. Based on analyses of DNA nucleotide sequence data we recognize Bestia in the Lembophyllaceae.
41425449|Seedling densities of California black oak (Quercus kelloggii) and overstory and understory vegetation attributes were quantified on four 21.1-ha study stands in Placer County, California. California black oak seedlings differed among stands (P <0.001), and seedling densities (number/ha) at one stand (mean = 58,733) were 4.05.3 times more abundant than the other stands (mean = 11,13314,400). Seedling density increased with increasing average diameters (cm) of surrounding California black oaks (P < 0.008). Larger diameter oaks are older and produce more acorns that can germinate into seedlings than smaller diameter oaks. For the stand with the greatest seedling density, seedling density increased with increasing basal area (m/ha) of California black oak (P = 0.028). Variation in site conditions and the effects of California black oak diameters and basal area should be acknowledged when evaluating seedling densities and seedling-based recruitment for California black oak and prior to initiating management to promote seedling recruitment.
41425682|Morphological and geographic variation in two Lathyrus and two Vicia species complexes is reviewed. The following new combinations are proposed: Lathyrus nevadensis S. Wats. var. cusickii (S. Wats.) Broich comb, nov., Lathyrus lanszwertii Kellogg var. sandbergii (T. White) Broich comb, nov., Vicia ludoviciana Nutt. ex T. & G. var. leavenworthii (T. & G.) Broich comb, nov., and Vicia nigricans H. & A. var. gigantea (Hooker) Broich comb. nov.
41425114|Hybrids between two of the most common shrubs of the Mojave and Sonoran deserts, Ambrosia dumosa and Hymenoclea salsola, are morphologically distinctive and geographically widespread. At the molecular level, individuals of A. dumosa  H. salsola can be diagnosed by additivity for distinctive ribosomal DNA markers of the parent species. Individuals of A. dumosa  H. salsola from the vicinity of Twentynine Palms, California, showed normal meiosis, with 18 pairs of chromosomes at diakinesis and metaphase I, but highly depressed pollen stainability (less than 5%). These results mirror evidence from natural hybrid individuals of A. ambrosioides  H. salsola from southern Arizona. Crossability and chromosomal similarity between shrubby species of Ambrosia and H. salsola conforms with phylogenetic evidence from recent morphological and molecular studies that Hymenoclea and most species of Franseria (now included in Ambrosia) are more closely related than previously appreciated. Low pollen stainabilities in the hybrids indicate considerable sterility barriers between the parental taxa, at least via pollen. Nevertheless, putative backcrosses or later-generation hybrids between A. dumosa and H. salsola in the Twentynine Palms area are known; gene flow between these often-sympatric desert dominants may occur.
41424313|The species of Phacelia sect. Miltitzia are found in the Great Basin physiographic province of western North America and are distinguished from other members of Phacelia by their yellow, marcescent corollas combined with transversely corrugated seeds. An artificial key is provided to the nine species and two varieties of sect. Miltitzia recognized in the present taxonomic treatment. One new species, Phacelia monoensis, is described and Phacelia submutica is reduced to P. scopulina var. submutica.
41425514|A spring with Sphagnum palustre (peatmoss) in the Cinega de Camilo in eastern Sonora, Mexico, is a new habitat for Sonora and the Sierra Madre Occidental. The vascular plant flora in an area of 0.2 km contains 207 species in 63 families, dominated by Compositae (41 species), Leguminosae (24 species), and Gramineae (21 species). Of these species, 40.1% do not reach Arizona or New Mexico, 15.0% are rare or restricted in Sonora, and only 2.9% are non-native. Pollen analyses of organic mud in a core from the Cinega recorded pine-oak forest progressively drying in the last 1000 years. The Cinega de Camilo with its unique peat habitat, diverse flora, and its paleoecological potential is in urgent need of protection. Una turbera de Sphagnum palustre (musgo) en la Cinega de Camilo en la parte oriental de Sonora, se considera un habitat nuevo para Sonora y la Sierra Madre Occidental. La flora vascular en un rea de 0.2 km contiene 207 especies distribuidas en 63 familias, dominadas por Compositae (41 especies), Leguminosae (24 especies) y Gramineae (21 especies). De estas especies, 40.1% no se presentan en Arizona o New Mexico, 15% son escasas o restringidas a Sonora y solamente el 2.9% son introducidas. Por medio de anlisis de polen del barro orgnico obtenido de un ncleo de la cinega se encontr que el bosque de pino-encino empez a secarse en forma progresiva los ltimos 1000 aos. La Cinega de Camilo con su habitat de turbera nico, su diversa flora y su potencial paleoecolgico se encuentra en una necesidad urgente de proteccin.
41426201|Erigeron lackschewitzii Nesom and Weber (Asteraceae) is described from the Rocky Mountains of northwestern Montana. Its closest relatives appear to be E. simplex Greene and E. grandifloras Hooker.
41425836|Sidalcea gigantea G. Clifton, R. E. Buck, & S. R. Hill is described as a new species from the northwestern slope of the Sierra Nevada in Butte, Plumas, Sierra, and Yuba Counties and from the extreme southern Cascade Range in Shasta County, California. The new species is a robust, long-lived perennial from large and extensive rhizomes; it is one of the tallest species known in the genus and it forms the largest known clonal colonies. Based on both morphological and DNA characters, S. gigantea appears to be most closely related to S. asprella Greene and S. celata (Jeps.) S. R. Hill, both found in the vicinity of the new species. Sidalcea gigantea occurs around margins of meadows, seeps, and streams in montane conifer forests, especially Mixed Conifer Forest.
41425632|During a three-year botanical inventory of the Hanford Nuclear Reservation in south-central Washington, we located three previously undescribed entities (Astragalus conjunctus S. Watson var. rickardii Welsh, K.A. Beck, and Caplow, Eriogonum codium Reveal, Caplow, and K.A. Beck, and Physaria douglasii (S. Watson) O'Kane and Al-Shehbaz subsp. tuplashensis (Rollins, K.A. Beck, and Caplow) O'Kane and Al-Shehbaz, four species new to Washington (Cistanthe rosea (S. Watson) Hershk., Gilia leptomeria A. Gray, Loeflingia squarrosa Nutt., and Myosurus clavicaulis M.E. Peck), and one previously described species that had generally gone unnoticed by the American botanical community (Festuca washingtonica E.B. Alexeev). The botanical inventory was a part of the Hanford Biodiversity Project, which was funded by the Department of Energy and administered by The Nature Conservancy of Washington.
41424741|Postfire vegetation development was studied at four recent burn sites within the grass-and shrub-dominated pramos of the Cordillera de Talamanca, Costa Rica. The bamboo Swallenochloa subtessellata and the ericaceous shrubs Vaccinium consanguineum and Pernettia coricea resprout vigorously after fire, but the shrub Hypericum irazuense suffers high mortality and reestablishes by seed. Herbs and shrubs are slow to colonize openings created by fire, and bare patches of ground persist for a decade or more following burning. Regenerating bamboo clumps regain prefire heights of 1-2 m within ten years, but associated shrubs require more than a decade to regain comparable preburn statures. Se estudi el desarrollo de vegetacin en cuatro sitios quemados despus de unos incendios en los pramos dominados por gramneas y arbustos de la Cordillera de Talamanca, Costa Rica. El bamb Swallenochloa subtessellata y las ericceas Vaccinium consanguineum y Pernettia coricea se retoan vigorosamente despus de quemarse, pero el arbusto Hypericum irazuense sufre alta mortalidad, y se reestablece por semillas. Colonizacin por hierbas y arbustos avanza lentamente, y sitios de tierra sin cubierta vegetal persisten por una dcada o ms. Los bambs quemados reponen su altura original de 1-2 m dentro de diez aos, pero los arbustos necesitan ms de una dcada para recuperar estaturas comparables.
41424637|The 626 hectare Vina Plains Preserve is located in southernmost Tehama Co., California, and is a remnant of various native grassland habitats. Geologically, this region is a weathered fanglomerate formed from alluvial deposits of the Tuscan formation and later deposits of silt. A botanical survey of the Preserve between January 1982 and May 1987 resulted in the identification of 53 vascular plant families that included 287 taxa. Native species comprised 67% of the taxa, and annuals comprised 77%. Eight rare plant species were found, their distributions noted, and numbers estimated. All the plants occur in one or more of the six habitats, which include vernal pools, hogwallows, seeps, vernal marshes, uplands, and outcrops. Families with the most species include Poaceae (50), Asteraceae (36), Fabaceae (17), Boraginaceae (13), and Amaryllidaceae (10).
41424354|Four northern California field populations of Chlorogalum angustifolium consist of plants of two floral types: short-styled and long-styled. In short-styled plants the stigma level is below the tier of anthers; in the long-styled plants it is above the anthers. In the Butte County population studied in greatest detail, long-styled plants are twice as numerous as short-styled plants. The two forms do not differ significantly in anther size, number of pollen grains per anther, filament length, number of flowers per inflorescence, or height and degree of branching of the inflorescence. The two forms do differ significantly in ovary and tepal lengths. Approximately 36 percent of both forms bore fruit in the field, although the average number of fruits per plant was 60 percent higher on short-styled plants ($_{\bar X}$ = 1.60) than on long-styled ($_{\bar X}$ = 0.99). No incompatibility exists within or between the two forms; however, seed-set was significantly lower for selfed long-styled plants than for selfed short-styled ones. No long-styled plants set seed without mechanical transfer of pollen, whereas up to 30 percent of flowers of short-styled plants did so. It is suggested that the presence of short-styled plants in populations of C. angustifolium insures some degree of seed production during times when pollinators are scarce.
41425789|Baker (1991) proposed that forest differences observed on either side of a fence were attributable to differences in grazing. The study location is in a subalpine forest on the Pike National Forest adjacent to the fenced boundary of Colorado Springs watershed land. Grazing on the watershed land has been excluded for over a century, and U.S. Forest Service land has had moderate grazing over the same time period. The Forest Service land supports a relatively dense forest comprised primarily of Pinus aristata. The watershed land has a less dense cover composed primarily of Picea engelmannii. Baker (1991) attributed vegetation differences to differential grazing pressure. Additional information suggests an alternate explanation for the vegetation characteristics of this site. In the 1930's, the Forest Service began a program of monitoring areas where trees had been planted or where forest health was a concern. Included in these photographic records is a 1960 photograph of the study area that documents the differences in forest type and cover are related to tree planting activities on the Forest Service side of the fence. The evidence that these trees are planted is based on the linear pattern of trees and a general map that shows where tree planting was done.
41425032|We examined the late summer predawn and midday xylem water potential of 247 trees of five Quercus species at the Hastings Reservation in central coastal California. These five species are sympatric over a large part of their range in California, but show markedly different strategies in water acquisition and use. Quercus douglasii and Q. kelloggii, two deciduous species, had the lowest daytime xylem water potentials and the highest recovery values, indicating considerable drought tolerance. Quercus lobata, a third deciduous species, had consistently high predawn values, indicating access to ground water and hence the greatest drought avoidance. The two evergreen species, Q. agrifolia and Q. chrysolepis, had the lowest recovery values, consistent with shifting part of their growth to the winter as part of a drought evading strategy. Correlations between xylem water potential and tree size (DBH) were positive for Q. agrifolia but otherwise weak. Elevational effects were significant for several species but did not consistently correlate with elevational preferences. Topographic correlates of water availability as they are usually envisioned did not predict water stress as indicated by xylem water potential. Water relations help explain the distributional differences of these species. Quercus lobata consistently taps the water table on alluvial terraces where the water table is too low for other species, such as Q. agrifolia, to reach. Quercus agrifolia is able to grow in drier environments than Q. lobata. Quercus chrysolepis is similar to Q. agrifolia. Quercus douglasii and Q. kelloggii are highly drought tolerant and able to grow in dry soils.
43288993|Monardella eplingii Elvin, A. C. Sanders, & J. L. Anderson (Lamiaceae), a new species from the Black Mountains of northwestern Arizona is described and illustrated. This new species is similar to M. arizonica Epling, M. eremicola A. C. Sanders & Elvin, M. robisonii Epling, M. mojavensis Elvin & A. C. Sanders, M. boydii A. C. Sanders & Elvin, M. linoides A. Gray subsp. linoides, and M. linoides subsp. erecta (Abrams) Elvin & A. C. Sanders. It differs from these taxa in leaf and bract morphology, pubescence on the stems and calyces, soil and geologic affinities, and distribution. A key is included for the Monardella of the eastern Mojave Desert region.
41425162|Linanthus jepsonii is a newly described species in the L. androsaceus complex (sect.Leptosiphon) restricted to Lake, Napa and Sonoma Cos. in the California North Coast Range. Multivariate analyses of six morphological characters revealed that L. jepsonii is readily distinguished from the other species in the complex found in the same region. It is ecologically and morphologically most similar to L. parviflorus, but can be distinguished from this species by its long calyx, the long, sparse hairs on the calyx lobes and its self-compatible breeding system. Greenhouse experiments indicate that these taxa are reproductively isolated, as crosses between them produce few seeds, and hybrid plants are typically male sterile.
41425257|Vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizae (VAM) occur in most terrestrial ecosystems and are crucial to understanding community structure and function. However, their role in primary succession is poorly understood. This study examined the distribution of VAM propagules, spores, and plants across the Pumice Plains of Mount St. Helens. VAM colonized plants and propagules were common in sites with thick vegetation, such as areas of relict pre-emption vegetation and lupine patches, but were very infrequent in barren areas which comprise nearly all of the Pumice Plain. The vegetation of the Pumice Plain is composed primarily of facultatively mycotrophic species which are currently nonmycorrhizal. Mycorrhizal plants occur in refugia and thickly vegetated areas. VAM spore density and richness was low and spores are essentially restricted to densely vegetated habitats.
41424174|Morphological evidence for hybridization between Crataegus douglasii var. suksdorfii and C. monogyna in the southern Willamette Valley, Oregon, has been derived from a population with intermediate leaf morphology. Experimental hybridization resulted in an average fruit set of 42 percent in  C. douglasii X  C. monogyna, and 7 percent in  C. monogyna X  C. douglasii crosses. Hybrid pollen was 66 percent stainable with aniline blue-lactophenol compared with 95 percent for C. douglasii and 96 percent for C. monogyna. This is the first documented hybridization between a European and a northwestern North American species.
41425597|Lupinus polyphyllus and L. wyethii are closely related members of a species complex widely distributed in western North America. Principal components analysis of morphological characters showed that these two taxa intergrade extensively, with many intermediate forms occurring. DNA sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region in 28 individuals were variable at five base positions, both within and between taxa; some of these sequences have also been reported from related species. Molecular variation showed a geographic pattern but did not strongly reflect morphological differences. Morphological features that have been used to separate species in this group may primarily reflect local adaptation rather than underlying phylogenetic divergence. The lack of clear differentiation between these two lupines suggests that they are best treated as varieties of a single species, L. polyphyllus.
41425615|Meiotic and mitotic chromosome numbers for Mentzelia leucophylla Brandegee (Loasaceae) are reported.The numbers of n = 11 and 2n = 22 fit with the aneuploid series that exists in other taxa of Mentzelia section Bartonia, but differ from a chromosome number of n = 18 reported in 1973 by Reveal & Styer. Although additional work should be done on the species, it is suggested that the 1973 count may be in error.
41424253|The elevational range over which sympatric populations of Pinus edulis and P. monophylla occur was measured on three north-facing slopes in the New York Mountains, eastern Mojave Desert. These two species have disjunct distributions over most of their geographic range, rarely occur together, and exhibit altitudinal zonation in the New York Mountains, where P. edulis occurs at higher elevations than P. monophylla. The elevation of contact varies locally. The highest ridge provides more run-off during the year, allowing P. edulis to exist at lower elevations than on a drier slope. The lowest and driest slope studied does not support P. edulis at all.
41425475|Six new species in the genus Gaudichaudia are described and sectional taxonomy in the genus is revised in accordance with findings from molecular analysis of chloroplast and nuclear genomes. Gaudichaudia cycloptera, G. chasei, and G. mcvaughii are removed from section Gaudichaudia and placed in section Cyclopterys. Gaudichaudia krusei and G. subverticillata are removed from section Gaudichaudia and placed in section Archaeopterys. Gaudichaudia hirtella, comb. nov. is placed in section Oligopterys to accommodate the finding that Aspicarpa, at least in part, is nested within Gaudichaudia. Three nothosections are named to accommodate new species described as amphiploids among sections. Gaudichaudia implexa is described as a new amphiploid species formed from lineages in section Tritomopterys and section Gaudichaudia (nothosection Tritomochaudia). Gaudichaudia symplecta and Gaudichaudia synoptera are described as two new amphiploid species formed from lineages in section Tritomopterys and section Cyclopterys (nothosection Cyclotomopterys). Gaudichaudia zygoptera and Gaudichaudia intermixteca are described as two new amphiploid species formed from lineages in section Tritomopterys and section Zygopterys (nothosection Zygotomopterys). Gaudichaudia andersonii is described as a new amphiploid species formed from lineages within section Cycloptera. Se describen seis especies nuevas en el gnero Gaudichaudia y se revisa la taxonoma seccional en el gnero de acuerdo con los hallazgos del anlisis molecular del cloroplasto y de los genomas nucleares. Se quitan Gaudichaudia cycloptera, G. chasei y G. mcvaughii de la seccin Gaudichaudia y se colocan en la seccin Cyclopterys. Se quitan G. krusei y G. subverticillata de la seccin Gaudichaudia y se colocan en la seccin Archaeopterys. Se pone Gaudichaudia hirtella, comb. nov. en la seccin Oligopterys para acomodar el hallazgo de que Aspicarpa por lo menos en parte, se anida dentro de Gaudichaudia. Se nombran tres nothosecciones para acomodar la nuevas especies descrita como anfiploide entre secciones. Se describe Gaudichaudia implexa como una nueva especie anfiploide formada de linajes en la seccin Tritomopterys y la seccin Gaudichaudia (nothoseccin Tritomochaudia). Se describen Gaudichaudia symplecta y Gaudichaudia synoptera como dos especies nuevas del anfiploide formada de linajes en la seccin Tritomopterys y la seccin Cyclopterys (nothoseccin Cyclotomopterys). Se describen Gaudichaudia zygoptera y Gaudichaudia intermixteca como dos especies nuevas del anfiploide formada de linajes en la seccin Tritomopterys y la seccin Zygopterys (nothoseccin Zygotomopterys). Se describe el Gaudichaudia andersonii como una especie nueva del anfiploide formado de linajes dentro de la seccin Cycloptera.
41424871|Taxonomic study of the Polypodium californicum/glycyrrhiza complex in California reveals four taxa: a tetraploid, a triploid, and two diploids, P. californicum and P. glycyrrhiza. The tetraploid, here named Polypodium calirhiza, mimics some forms of P. californicum in southern California but is readily distinct in northern and central parts of the state. It is probably of allopolyploid origin involving the two diploids, as judged by its morphological intermediacy and chromosome pairing in triploid hybrids with P. glycyrrhiza. A principal components analysis also demonstrates this intermediacy. Polypodium calirhiza shows a wider tolerance for different habitats and greater range than either of its putative parents. El estudio taxnomico del complejo Polypodium californicum/glycyrrhiza en California revela cuatro taxa: un tetraploide, un triploide, y dos diploides, P. californicum y P. glycyrrhiza. El tetraploide, aqu nombrado Polypodium calirhiza, mimetiza algunas formas de P. californicum en el sur de California pero es fcilmente distinguible de los areas de norte y centro del estado. Probablemente esta nueva especie sea de origen alopoliploide implicando los dos diploides a juzgar por su forma intermedia morfolgicomente y su sinapsis cromsomico en hbridos triploides con P. glycyrrhiza. Un anlisis de los componentes principales tambien demuestra esta naturaleza intermedia. Polypodium calirhiza demuestra una mejor tolerancia a mas diversos habitates y una area de distribution mas amplia que cualquiera de sus dos teoricos progenitores.
41425821|The Emerald Lake Basin forms a subalpine watershed in the upper drainage of the Marble Fork of the Kaweah River in Sequoia National Park. The basin is 120 ha in area and covers an elevational range from 2804 m at Emerald Lake to 3416 m at the summit of Alta Peak. The flora of the basin includes 202 vascular plant species, distributed into 132 genera and 41 families, with the Asteraceae (25 species) and Poaceae (23 species) as the largest families. Herbaceous perennials make up about three-fourths of the flora, but unlike alpine habitats many of these are relatively tall upright species, particularly in wet habitats. The woody plant flora includes five tree species, all conifers, with Pinus monticola as the dominant. There are 19 species of woody shrubs present, including six evergreen and 13 winter deciduous species. Eight plant habitat types were delineated on the basis of geomorphic position related to soil conditions and water availability that influence species composition (Billings 1974). These were subalpine conifer forest, willow thicket, wet meadows, moist rock crevices, dry meadows, dry rock crevices, colluvium, and fellfields.
41424514|The cone habit of Pinus coulteri exhibits considerable variation among plant communities in the southern Coast Ranges of California. Serotiny is prevalent in P. coulteri/chaparral, P. coulteri/Quercus chrysolepis, and P. coulteri/Cupressus sargentii communities that are periodically burned by wildfire. The bulk of pine regeneration in these types occurs in the first year after a fire, after which it rapidly declines, and ceases within 20 years. By contrast, in the P. coulteri/Q. agrifolia community nearly all cones open at maturity or soon thereafter. Pines in this habitat are generally less subjected to fire-caused mortality; regeneration, although sporadic, is continuous. The quantity of stored viable seed is reduced in all community types by animal depredations and varying degrees of spontaneous cone opening. Despite these losses, the amount of stored, viable seed retained in serotinous stands is 50 times greater than quantities stored in nonserotinous stands.
41426237|Spatial variation in environmental conditions and herbaceous community structure was studied across the ecotone between coast live oak (Quercus agrifolio) woodland and grassland in northern California. Oak canopy reduced light incidence (2.8% compared to open) but increased soil moisture and nitrogen availability underneath. The understory herbaceous layer had a different species composition from open grassland, lower species richness, lower above-ground biomass, a delayed seasonal growth, and different biomass partitioning by species. Grassland diversity and biomass fitted a second order polynomial regression, with maximum at 570 gm, and reduced diversity in the harsh, shaded, low-productivity understory. The heterogeneity of physical conditions induced by oak canopy maintains a higher landscape (gamma) diversity of herbaceous plants.
43289028|Studies of the Monotropoideae (monotropes; Ericaceae), a monophyletic group of nonphotosynthetic, mycoheterotrophic, and often rare or endangered plants, have been limited by the inability to propagate them. Monotropes associate with specific fungal hosts, and the only previously known method of seed germination was induction by host fungi or closely related fungi. In order to overcome very low monotrope seed germination rates and to facilitate further study and conservation efforts, we developed a method using gibberellic acid (GA) to induce asymbiotic germination. Pterospora andromedea Nutt. (Monotropoideae, Ericaceae) and Sarcodes sanguinea Torr. (Monotropoideae, Ericaceae) seeds from California were exposed to their fungal symbiont or to agarose infused with 0-1 mM GA and then scored for germination. Continuous exposure to 0.5 mM GA for two months induced 75% P. andromedea germination, compared to only 21% with its host fungus, Rhizopogon salebrosus A.H. Sm. (Basidiomycota). Even short GA exposure (one or three days) significantly enhanced germination (69% and 90%, respectively). The highest germination rate was observed with exposure to 0.5 mM GA for three or 14 d. The closely related S. sanguinea required a three-month exposure to GA and even then produced far lower germination rates (~ 1%). Nevertheless, this is the only known method of inducing monotrope germination without the presence of a specific fungal symbiont. In the case of P. andromedea, exogenous GA stimulates germination at rates far higher than that achieved with its fungal symbiont. Application of GA to induce monotrope germination may be used to examine the early stages of mycoheterotroph development, to improve assays for seed viability, and potentially to aid conservation efforts.
41413360|Evidence from 1) plants grown in cultivation, 2) herbarium specimens, and 3) natural populations suggests that hybridization between the perennials Malacothrix incana and M. saxatilis var. implicata occurs on San Miguel Island, California. Malacothrix incana has yellow corollas, a chromosome number of 2n = 14, and is self-compatible. M. s. var. implicata has white corollas, a chromosome number of 2n = 18, and is self-incompatible. Three hybrids were grown in cultivation from achenes collected from M. s. var. implicata on San Miguel Island, and all had 2n = 16 Hybrids in cultivation and in the field had pale yellow corollas. All hybrids had less than 4% stainable pollen and were intermediate between the parents in leaf and involucre morphology. Cross-pollinations between the parents in cultivation produced no hybrids, and hybrids apparently are relatively rare in natural populations. All of the evidence suggests that the parents are separated by generally effective isolating mechanisms and that hybridization in nature has not proceeded beyond the F level. Hybrids were found on San Miguel Island in all areas where the parents were seen together, and no single zone of hybridization was found. The presence of hybrids of different ages suggests that there have been several hybridization events. The parents have different habitat preferences, but changes in edaphic factors on San Miguel Island during historic time probably have allowed M. incana to invade areas occupied by M. s. var. implicata so that cross-pollination can occur often enough to produce hybrids.
41424825|Thelesperma caespitosum, a new species from Wyoming and Utah, is described and illustrated. The new species is a member of the T. subnudum complex and is compared to four related taxa. Possible evolution in the complex is discussed.
41424318|Eriogonum libertini is a new species of the subgenus Oligogonum known only from serpentine outcrops in the California Coast Ranges of Shasta, Tehama and Trinity Counties. It is most closely related to E. ternatum Howell, a serpentine species of northernmost California and adjacent Oregon, differing in having a whorl of three foliaceous bracts at midlength along the stem and an inflorescence reduced to a single terminal involucre.
41425770|Isozyme analysis of the rare Oenothera wolfli (Wolf's evening primrose) and the garden escape, O. glazioviana, indicates that hybridization between these species may be more widespread than morphological evidence indicates. Although both species contained low amounts of genetic variation, unique aleles were identified in both taxa. Analysis of 22 populations, including pure populations of each species, identified eight populations as containing putative hybrid individuals. Four of these putative hybrid populations were considered pure O. wolfli based on morphological analysis. This study confirms that the native O. wolfli may be at risk not only from habitat destruction, but potentially from genetic swamping where it co-occurs with O. glazioviana. These results can be used as baseline information for future genetic monitoring efforts.
41424686|Pollen and plant macrofossil analysis and ten radiocarbon dates for the sediments of Dinkey and Exchequer Meadows provide a detailed record of environmental change in the western Sierra Nevada. The Dinkey Meadow sedimentary record is nearly 5000 yr long, and the Exchequer Meadow record reaches 13,500 yr B. P. The Exchequer Meadow pollen diagram is divided into an upper Abies zone (0-1870 yr B. P.), a Pinus zone (1870-7070 yr B. P.), and a basal Artemisia zone (7070-13,500 yr B. P.), which is subdivided into upper Quercus and lower Gramineae subzones at ca. 10,680 yr B. P. The Artemisia zone records more xeric vegetation than occurs west of the Sierra today, and it contains Sequoiadendron pollen, indicating temperatures little colder than today. The presence of spores of the dung fungus Sporormiella indicates that grazing animals were abundant during the Gramineae subzone. A period of maximum Abies percentages at Dinkey, Exchequer, and other Sierra Nevada sites may result from warm dry climate shortly after 1900 yr B. P.
41424352|Populus  inopina Eckenwalder is a putative natural hybrid between P. fremontii S. Watson and P. nigra L., species of distinct subsections of sect. Aigeiros Duby. It has been found in association with both parents along Coyote Creek, Santa Clara County, California. Morphological features and Chromatographie profiles of leaf flavonoids of trees growing at this site support a hybrid interpretation of the type tree and suggest possible backcrossing to both parents. Apparent absence of similar hybrids at other localities at which P. nigra has been planted may reflect the unisexuality of the introduced trees. While most specimens of P. nigra planted in the range of P. fremontii are staminate individuals, the trees planted at Coyote Creek are pistillate, creating a situation favoring hybridization.
41425062|Integration of biosystematics (experimental study of biological aspects of organismal variation, diversity, and diversification) and phylogenetics (study of genealogical relationships of organisms) is a particularly promising avenue for future evolutionary and ecological investigations of the California flora. The exceptionally strong tradition of biosystematics in California botany has yielded findings that are responsible for much of our understanding of evolutionary processes in plants. The value of this research is, in part, attributable to a focus on the endemic plant lineages of California, which have provided ideal systems for investigating diverse modes of speciation and other evolutionary phenomena. An exciting new challenge to California botanists is reanalysis of biosystematic data and conclusions from a phylogenetic perspective. With understanding of phylogeny comes clarification of historical patterns and directionality of evolutionary changes and provision of more meaningful contexts for evolutionary comparisons. Phylogenetic research has indeed improved our understanding of speciation patterns, processes of diversification, and biogeographic relationships within California plant groups that were the subjects of earlier experimental studies. Only a small fraction of the California flora has been investigated from both biosystematic and phylogenetic perspectives.
41425712|There is currently a large regional effort to restore tidal marsh ecosystems in the San Francisco Bay-Delta Estuary involving the commitment of hundreds of millions of dollars and broad landscape-scale habitat manipulations. Although climate change has been on the horizon for many years, recent developments suggest that it must be taken seriously as a factor to be considered in future planning for marsh restoration efforts. Tidal marshes are vulnerable to changes in salinity and inundation rates, both of which will be affected by climate change. Restoration sites may be particularly vulnerable given unpredictable sediment inputs and newly established vegetation. Predicted shifts in snowmelt and altered runoff will change estuarine salinity patterns and could have large-scale impacts on marsh dominance, especially for freshwater marshes. Even relatively small salinity changes could lead to shifts in dominant species, with freshwater marshes being replaced by brackish marshes and brackish marshes converted to salt marsh communities. This will cause a reduction in overall estuarine plant diversity and productivity, with possible reverberations for the estuarine food web. Based on monitoring data from San Francisco Bay marshes, we predict that salinity will have a more immediate impact on tidal marsh vegetation than sea-level rise. However, sea-level rise poses a potentially greater long-term threat, depending on its rate, because the effects of inundation and a more persistent salinity regime could cause widespread marsh loss. If ice sheets in Antarctica and Greenland begin melting at rapid rates, inundation impacts could be catastrophic for coastal marshes. Given the magnitude of these potential changes, we urge the restoration and conservation management community to integrate these contingencies into adaptive management process and to join with the broader community in forging more flexible governance institutions that can respond effectively to large-scale uncertainties and trajectories as they unfold.
41424317|A new species, Cryptantha subcapitata, is described from Fremont County, Wyoming. It is compared with C. caespitosa and C. spiculifera which it resembles most closely.
41424410|Perityle staurophylla (Barneby) Shinners var. homoflora Todsen is described from the San Andres Mountains of New Mexico.
41424366|It is often assumed that mountain meadow ecosystems are fragile and temporary phenomena. An alternative hypothesis is that meadows are as stable over time as the surrounding vegetation. Evidence from palynological, stratigraphie, and successional studies on Sierran meadows supports the latter hypothesis. Three new working hypotheses on the causes of change in meadow ecosystems are proposed.
41426336|Large pollen grains are difficult to quantify accurately. In order to ensure none have escaped, the anther must be removed and preserved before it is fully mature, leaving the pollen grains somewhat fragile and cohesive. Any method of quantification requires that they be separated into discrete grains, a difficult process, in part, due to their immature state. A probe sonicator can effectively disperse pollen grains from an opened anther in a petri dish partially filled with water. If the grains are too large to readily remain in suspension they can be allowed to settle in the petri dish and then quantified. As long as the grains are uniformly distributed in the petri dish, a compound microscope can be used to count the pollen grains in a field of view, and the contents of multiple fields of view can be used to extrapolate the total number of pollen grains.
41425681|The genus Arctostaphylos consists mostly of chaparral shrubs known by the common name manzanita, and one of the widest ranging of these is A. glandulosa Eastw., distributed from Baja California to Oregon. Particularly in the southern half of its range it exhibits complex patterns of morphological variation that have long presented taxonomic challenges. Phenetic analysis of morphological traits from over 1400 individuals from throughout the range were used to examine intra-and inter-population patterns of variation. Multivariate ordination and hierarchical cluster analysis were used to determine phenetic patterns linked with ecological and geographical distributions. These analyses suggest the hypothesis that this species comprises two lineages with a common origin but divergent in the presence or absence of glandularity: A. glandulosa Eastw. subsp. glandulosa, characterized by branchlets with long glandular hairs, scabrous or pubescent leaves, and nascent inflorescences with mostly foliaceous bracts; and A. glandulosa Eastw. subsp. cushingiana (Eastw.) Keeley, Vasey and Parker comb, nov., with non-glandular tomentose branchlets, glabrate or pubescent leaves and either foliaceous or short deltoid bracts. Populations dominated by one or the other of these morphotypes occur throughout the range and tend to be separated by elevation or distance from the coast, although mixed populations occur where these taxa come together. Two other glandular subspecies are named here. One is A. glandulosa Eastw. subsp. leucophylla Keeley, Vasey and Parker, subsp. nov., with intensely glaucous leaves and commonly with foliaceous bracts. A second glandular subspecies is A. glandulosa Eastw. subsp. atumescens Keeley, Vasey & Parker, subsp. nov., a narrowly distributed Baja California endemic similar to the nominate subspecies except that it lacks a basal burl and does not resprout after fire. Of the non-glandular tomentose taxa, in addition to A. glandulosa subsp cushingiana, several others are also recognized. One is A. glandulosa Eastw. subsp. crassifolia (Jepson) Wells, a well established coastal San Diego endemic recognized by darker and thicker leaves and smaller and flatter fruits. Another is a newly described taxon A. glandulosa Eastw. subsp. erecta Keeley, Vasey & Parker, subsp. nov., an endemic to northern Baja California recognized by the erect nascent inflorescenses. Two others have glabrate leaves and highly reduced deltoid often marcescent bracts; A. glandulosa subsp. adamsii (Munz) Wells, which has intensely glaucous leaves and is distributed from interior Riverside Co. south, and A. glandulosa Eastw. subsp. gabrielensis (Wells) Keeley, Vasey and Parker comb, nov., which has bright lustrous green leaves and greater fusion of nutlets, and is distributed from the interior San Gabriel Mountains of Los Angeles Co. north to the Sierra Madre Mountains of Santa Barbara Co. All non-glandular plants with long setose or villous hairs are A. glandulosa Eastw. subsp. mollis (Adams) Wells. This taxon includes plants with foliaceous as well as reduced bracts and is distributed throughout the Transverse Ranges from Santa Barbara to San Bernardino counties, with some outlying populations further south. This taxon shows a marked tendency for reduced stomatal densities on the upper leaf surface in the westernmost populations. Although all of the A. glandulosa taxa described here are known from allopatric populations, intergradations of these closely related taxa occur and thus some populations reflect a mixture of traits and can not be assigned a unique name of practical value.
41425442|Significant range expansions in the northern Mojave Desert are documented for twenty-three species of bryophytes, nine of which are new to the region. Barbula convoluta, Claopodium whippleanum, Entosthodon planoconvexas, Fissidens sublimbatus, Grimmia americana, Reboulia hemispherica, Syntrichia bartramii, Weissia condensa, and Asterella californica are new to the flora of Nevada.
41424962|Atriplex minuticarpa, a new annual species from Eastern Utah is described and illustrated. The new species appears to be restricted to the Tununk-Shale Member of Mancos Shale in Emery, Grand and Wayne Counties of Utah. It is morphologically closest to A. powellii but differs in its divaricate-branching habit, densely imbricate, sessile leaves, small fruiting bracts and utricles, and monoecious inflorescenses with staminate and pistillate flowers in mixed glomerules.
41424672|An account of the endemic vascular plants of northwestern California and southwestern Oregon is presented. This component of the California Floristic Province, known for its high species richness, was found to have a large number of neoendemics in a regional flora generally characterized as relictual in nature. A list of endemics provides distribution by county and formal designations of rarity and endangerment for 281 taxa in 42 families.
41426363|Mammillaria gaumeri (Britton & Ross) Orcutt (Cactaceae), an endemic plant of the Yucatan Peninsula, is included by the Mexican government in the list of species that require special protection. Its natural habitat is now restricted to fragmented areas and protection programs involve botanical gardens in growing individuals rescued from disturbed areas. Little information is available on the reproductive characteristics of this species and nothing is known of its pollinators. We investigated the visitors of M. gaumeri flowers, collecting and observing bee species in its natural habitat (i.e., coastal dune) and in a botanical garden, where coastal dune vegetation had been created. Observations were made on plants whose density was artificially increased by grouping flowering individuals. At each site, we: 1) collected insects visiting the flowers; 2) recorded number of visits; and 3) video-recorded bee movements on the flowers. As expected, the number of bee species and visitation frequency were higher at the botanical garden than at the coastal dune. After landing on a flower, bees either inspected the anthers or dived among them. These behaviors, carried out by all observed species, seemed related to the state of the anthers (full or empty of pollen) and stigma lobes (opened or closed). Specifically, visits lasted longer when anthers were full of pollen and stigma lobes were opened. The same bee species recorded on the dune were also recorded at the botanical garden, suggesting that the artificial dune at the botanical garden offered suitable conditions for the natural pollinators of this endangered cactus. Mammillaria gaumeri (Britton & Rose) Orcutt (Cactaceae) es endmica de la Peninsula de Yucatn y est incluida en la lista de especies que requieren proteccin especial por decreto del gobierno de Mxico. Presenta un hbitat restringido en reas fragmentadas y los programas de proteccin consideran el rescate de individuos de reas perturbadas para crecerlos en jardines botnicos. De la poca informacin disponible sobre las caractersticas reproductivas de esta especie, no se conoce nada de sus polinizadores. En este estudio, nosotros investigamos los visitadores de las flores de M. gaumeri y observamos y colectamos las especies de abejas en su hbitat natural (duna costera) y en un jardn botnico, donde el hbitat de la duna costera ha sido imitado. Las observaciones fueron hechas en plantas cuya densidad fue aumentada artificialmente con varios individuos en floracin. En cada sitio: 1) colectamos los insectos que visitaron las flores; 2) registramos el nmero de visitas; y 3) filmamos los movimientos de las abejas sobre las flores. Como esperbamos, el nmero de especies de abejas y la frecuencia de visitas fueron mayores en el jardin botnico que en la duna costera. Al aterrizar sobre una flor, las abejas se comportaron de dos diferentes maneras: ya sea que ellas inspeccionaban las anteras o se zambullan entre ellas. Estos comportamientos, realizados por todas las especies visitadoras, parecen estar relacionados con el estado de las anteras (llenas o vacas de polen) y a la posicin de los lbulos del estigma (abiertos o cerrados). Especficamente, las visitas duraron ms tiempo cuando las anteras estaban llenas de polen y los lbulos de los estigmas estaban abiertos. Las mismas especies de abejas se colectaron en ambos sitios, lo que sugiere que la duna artificial del jardn botnico tambin ofrece condiciones adecuadas para los polinizadores naturales de este cactus amenazado.
41425796|In response to conservation concerns, the reproductive biology of the San Fernando Valley Spineflower was investigated, focusing on pollination interactions and seed germination. Pollination by a variety of aerial visitors, as well as autogamy (a facultative selfer, showing about 25% selling), appear to contribute significantly to fruit/seed set. There was a significant correlation between the numerous different floral visitors (many went uncollected) and the invertebrate fauna in the immediately surrounding coastal sage scrub community indicating that this taxon is visited by a substantial variety of potential pollinators and is probably not pollinator-limited. Although there were many potential pollinators, only six species, including three species of ants, made up the vast majority of visits to the flowers at the two study sites. Many of the invertebrate visitors to the flowers of the San Fernando Valley Spineflower exhibited a high rate of constancy. An overall generalist strategy is suggested. Seed set was high and a germination rate of over 70% occurred without pre-treatment.
41425240|The objective of this study of the 1000 ha lodgepole pine (Pius contorta ssp. murrayana) forest of Mt. San Jacinto, California, is to typify several components of the fire regime, including intensity, size, frequency, and the relationship of fire with weather and its seasonal timing. We analyzed several lines of evidence, including fire occurrence from suppression records, fire dates from scarred P. contorta ssp. murrayana, forest structure as it relates to past disturbances, forest fuel loading, dendroclimatological modeling as it relates to past fire occurrences, and fire-igniting weather characteristics. The lodgepole pine forest of Mt. San Jacinto has a regime of fires that are typically of low intensity and that typically burn small areas (< 10 ha). Lightning ignites fire somewhere within this forest as frequently as every few years, but given that lightning is a spatially random process and that fires typically burn areas less than 10 ha in size, the mean fire interval for any 10 ha area is more likely on the order of 100 years. Atypically large fires (20 ha or larger) are possible, but they have burned infrequently in the past. Fires appear to be more common during years when surface and ground fuels are relatively dry (a result of below-average winter precipitation), and fires occur primarily late in or after the growing season. Mt. San Jacinto State Park managers should always prepare for lightning fires, but they can probably safely allow most lightning fires to burn naturally within this ecosystem. Because the possibility exists for fires to burn large areas, fires should probably be monitored closely to protect a unique resource of very old P. contorta ssp. murrayana trees. El objetivo de este estudio en un bosque de mil hectreas de Pinus contorta ssp. murrayana en Monte San Jacinto, California, es describir varios componentes del rgimen de incendios, incluyendo la intensidad, el rea, la frecuencia, las asociaciones entre incendios y el tiempo, y su sincronizacin estacional. Analizamos varias lneas de evidencia, incluyendo la ocurrencia de incendios segn los registros de supresin, fechas de incendios segn los pinos con heridas de incendio, la estructura forestal en relacin a las pasadas perturbaciones, la cantidad de combustible forestal, modelos dendroclimatolgicos en relacin a pasadas ocurrencias de incendios, y las caractersticas climticas iniciadoras de incendios. El bosque de Pinus contorta del Monte San Jacinto tiene un rgimen de incendios que tpicamente arden con una intensidad baja y en reas menores de 10 ha. Los rayos inician incendios en cualquier parte dentro de este bosque con una frecuencia de 4 a 7 aos, pero dado que los rayos que acompaan las tormentas son un proceso espacialmente al azar y que los incendios tpicamente queman reas menores de 10 ha, el intervalo promedio entre incendios en cualquier punto es probablemente del orden de 100 aos. Incendios atpicamente grandes (decenas de hectreas o ms) son posibles, pero han ocurrido con poca frecuencia. Los incendios parecen ser ms comunes durante aos cuando los combustibles forestales en la superficie y el suelo estn relativamente secos (a causa de precipitacin invernal menor que la normal), y los incendios ocurren principalmente hacia el final o despus del perodo vegetativo. Los guardabosques de Monte San Jacinto deben estar siempre preparados para incendios producidos por rayos, pero probablemente pueden permitir arder naturalmente la mayora de estos incendios dentro de este ecosistema. Debido a que existe la posibilidad de incendios que queman reas amplias, los incendios deben ser vigilados atentamente para proteger este recurso nico de Pinus contorta longevos.
41431655|The alpine zone of the White Mountains of California, defined as non-forested areas above 3500 m, includes 163 native species of vascular plants in an area of 106 km. No invasive species have become well established. Nearly two-thirds of the native species occur in just seven families, led by the Asteraceae with 30 species. Six genera have five or more species, led by Car ex with 14 species. Life forms of the flora are heavily dominated by broad-leaved herbaceous perennials (53%), followed in importance by graminoid perennials (22%) and mats and cushions (11%). Woody shrubs, chamaephytes (low subshrubs), and annuals are relatively few in number, and those species present are generally more characteristic of lower elevation communities. Fellfields form the characteristic habitat for 41% of the flora, while moist meadows and open slopes habitats characterize 24 and 22% of the flora, respectively. Only 31% of the flora is restricted in the White Mountains to the alpine zone, while nearly a third of the alpine flora has a range extending to lower elevations of the montane or cold desert zones below 2900 m. The alpine flora of the White Mountains shares over 70% of its species with the Sierra Nevada. Only three species are endemic to the alpine zone of the White Mountains: Draba californica, D. monoensis, and Potentilla morefieldii.
41424710|The subalpine and alpine flora of Mount St. Helens is estimated to consist of about 95 species of vascular plants of which over 20 may have become locally extinct in 1980. In contrast, three nearby volcanoes contain two to three times as many species. The causes for this limited flora include intense and frequent volcanism that has locally extirpated some species and prevented others from reinvading. Mount St. Helens is very young and may not have existed when dispersal for alpine species was facilitated by full glacial conditions. It is isolated by 50 to 80 km of inhospitable lowlands from seed sources on other volcanoes. The area above treeline is small and lacks mesic and hydric habitats, thereby excluding many species capable of dispersing, but incapable of finding a suitable habitat. Mount St. Helens is biogeographically analogous to an oceanic island recently emerged from the sea, distant from potential seed source pools, and suffering the trauma of repeated catastrophes.
41424727|Chromosone counts are reported for 18 populations of eight perennial Lathyrus species endemic to North America. Included are first counts of 2n=14 for L. holochlorus (Piper) C. Hitchc, L. delnorticus C. Hitchc, L. glandulosus Broich, L. jepsonii E. Greene subsp. jepsonii and L. vestitus Nutt. in Torrey & A. Gray subsp. vestitus, and 2n=28 for L. nevadensis S. Watson subsp. nevadensis. Chromosome counts of 2n=14 for L. jepsonii subsp. californiens (S. Watson) C. Hitchc, L. vestitus subsp. bolanderi (S. Watson) C. Hitchc, L. polyphyllus Nutt. in Torrey & A. Gray and L. sulphureus Brewer ex A. Gray agree with those reported previously. Karyotypes of diploid species are symmetrical and similar to one another. Among the species studied here there does not appear to be the reduction in chromosome size and DNA amount reported in the literature for annual, autogamous Mediterranean Lathyrus species.
41425652|The conservation of peripheral plant populations is paradoxical. Populations occurring on the edge of a species' range tend to be smaller, more isolated, and more genetically and ecologically divergent than central populations. The combination of these characteristics can impart novel evolutionary potential and local ecological significance, thus heightening their conservation value, while also making them less viable and more prone to local extinction. Public policy supports the conservation of peripheral populations, despite the commonness of the species elsewhere. However, the conservation of significant peripheral populations of nonlisted plants has been arbitrary and ineffective. The absence of explicit criteria to determine the conservation value of peripheral plant populations, the lack of finer-scale data on plant distributions, and a general unawareness of their value have hindered efforts to conserve them. We review the conservation value of peripheral plant populations and, using California as an example, describe regulatory methods to improve their conservation. We also propose a scheme to assess a population's conservation value.
41425265|The adult sex ratio of Arceuthobium tsugense (C. Rosend.) G. N. Jones ssp. tsugense (western hemlock dwarf mistletoe) was 1: 1 (n - 1608 plants) in the crowns of six large, A. tsugense-infected Tsuga heterophylla (Raf.) Sarg, (western hemlock) at the Wind River Canopy Crane Research Facility in southcentral Washington. One tree, however, had a female-biased adult sex ratio and another had a male-biased adult sex ratio. Plants in the lower crowns (less than 20 m in height) exhibited a female-biased adult sex ratio. Our results suggest that an earlier study, which sampled plants near the ground and reported a female-biased sex ratio for A. tsugense, may have been biased because of the sampling method used.
41424874|A reevaluation of Acanthomintha obovata indicates that subspecies duttonii is more appropriately recognized as a species, and that material previously referred to as subspecies obovata is comprised of two geographically and morphologically distinct subspecies. Nomenclatural innovations are published with a key to the species and subspecies of Acanthomintha.
41425862|Calyptridium parryi (Montiaceae, formerly Portulacaceae) putatively comprises four varieties: arizonicum, hesseae, nevadense, and parryi. We performed a detailed phenetic analysis of seed, fruit, and sepal morphology in order to assess the distinction and rank of these varieties. We treated the San Pedro Martir Mountains, Baja California populations of C. parryi as a separate taxonomic unit in these studies, given their great disjunct distribution. In addition, we included the very similar and largely sympatric monandrum in these analyses. Results from ANO VA and principal components analysis indicate that the six entities examined are, to various degrees, morphologically diagnosable. Calyptridium parryi varieties hesseae, nevadense, and parryi show some overlap in features, and we propose keeping these as varieties. Populations from the San Pedro Martir Mountains are distinct from other varieties of parryi, possibly warranting varietal status, but further studies with more samples are needed to confirm this. However, we conclude that C. parryi variety arizonicum is different enough in several features and geographic range to warrant species status, by a taxonomic/morphologic species concept. Calyptridium monandrum should be retained as a separate species.
41425363|As with many other sensitive species in California, the range of Lasthenia glabrata Lindley subsp. coulteri (A. Gray) Ornd. (Asteraceae; Coulter's goldfields) has been dramatically reduced in recent decades by urbanization. Many populations are small, isolated, and seemingly unstable. In this study, we conducted an autecological assessment of a small L. glabrata subsp. coulteri population at San Diego County's San Dieguito Lagoon, using a large population at San Elijo Lagoon for comparison. The large population was not only more stable based on trends in seed production, but generally produced larger plants and more flowers and capitulescences than the small population. However, this relationship appears to be temporally variable and influenced significantly by climatic conditions, particularly rainfall totals and distribution. In a year with above-average rainfall, vegetative and reproductive yield of plants in the small population (San Dieguito Lagoon) matched or even exceeded that of plants in the large one (San Elijo Lagoon), which was subjected to prolonged inundation following heavy rains and a back-up of runoff and creek flows behind a dike system. Rainfall is linked not only to soil moisture, but to nutrient influx and cycling, variables that were strongly associated with group (marsh/monitoring year) separation and prediction in statistical analyses. When resources are sufficient, reproductive yield appears to be driven by other factors, the most probable of which is pollen supply. The relationship between rainfall and plant yield could prove integral to predicting long-term viability of L. glabrata subsp. coulteri populations, as above-average rainfall years are often sporadic and interspersed between lengthy periods of average or below-average rainfall in southern California. Conservation and enhancement of the remaining coastal salt marsh L. glabrata subsp. coulteri populations could perhaps be furthered by factoring this relationship into conservation and restoration projects and hydrologie regimes designed for managed wetland systems.
41425698|Although Platanthera chorisiana (Orchidaceae) was reportedly collected in 1912 from Lake Serene (near Edmonds), Snohomish County, Washington State, no other information about this site or collection was known. Since this original collection, it has been collected three more times in the state.Because this State Threatened orchid has never been relocated at the Edmonds site, and because it does occur at Lake Serene, near Mount Index, Snohomish County, Washington State, I reviewed potentially relevant literature and archives starting with the collection year. I documented its collection at Lake Serene, near Mount Index. The 1912 specimen passed from Harry B. Hinman, the collector and a member of the Mountaineers, to Donovan Correll, in Texas. The orchid has persisted at Lake Serene, near Mount Index, for at least 90 yrs.
41702383|The taxonomically difficult and ecologically and phytogeographically important genus, Calamagrostis, was examined for British Columbia (BC). Morphological characters were analyzed by Principal Components Analysis (PCA) to characterize taxa and to aid in the development of a new key. Eight native species (Calamagrostis canadensis, C. lapponica, C. montanensis, C. nutkaensis, C. purpurascens, C. rubescens, C. sesquiflora, and C. stricta) are confirmed to occur in British Columbia, of which C. montanensis, C. nutkaensis, C. purpurascens, C. rubescens, and C. sesquiflora are reliably distinguishable. Comparison of species distribution to regional climatic and vegetation history suggests that Calamagrostis nutkaensis and C. sesquiflora likely survived in coastal refugia during late Wisconsin glaciations. Calamagrostis purpurascens likely persisted beyond the glacial limits or within nunataks and then spread into previously glaciated sites. Two interior continental species, C. montanensis and C. rubescens, probably spread north and west from the unglaciated zone south of the Cordilleran and Laurentide ice sheets. Calamagrostis lapponica likely persisted north of the ice sheets, and then spread southward into high-elevation sites in northern and eastern BC. Calamagrostis canadensis and C. stricta probably survived south and north of the ice sheets, and then spread into the previously glaciated terrain.
41425667|Fremontias, or flannel bushes (Fremontodendron), are a distinctive element of California's chaparral communities. Fremontodendron decumbens is only known from a few populations in gabbro soil plant communities of the Sierra Nevada foothills in E1 Dorado County. Although a recovery plan for these communities has been drafted, the long-term management of F. decumbens is complicated by its treatment as a subspecies of the more widespread F. californicum, and by the recent discovery of additional populations of decumbent plants in Yuba and Nevada Counties that are not easily assigned to either F. californicum or F. decumbens. Genetic relationships among 5 populations, including F. californicum, F. decumbens, and the decumbent plants in Yuba County, were ascertained using AFLP markers. Principal coordinates and population structure analyses of the AFLP data showed that F. decumbens is genetically distinguishable from the populations of F. californicum that we sampled. This distinction, coupled with its unique morphology and ecology, support the treatment of F. decumbens as a species and promote its continued conservation as a rare and unique element of plant communities on gabbro soils in the Sierra Nevada. The decumbent Yuba County population shared a number of alleles with F. californicum and F. decumbens and the analyses did not clearly distinguish its taxonomic relationships. It is possible that this population represents an historical hybrid between F. californicum and F. decumbens. A resolution of the taxonomic position of the decumbent Yuba County populations will require more thorough sampling of F. californicum but the presence of unique alleles in this population suggests that it also should be conserved.
41426294|Morphological aspects of seedling establishment were studied in four species of the mistletoe genus, Phoradendron (Viscaceae). Marked differences occurred between species. In P. densum and P. villosum the plumular shoot developed as the main shoot of the plant, whereas in P. juniperinum the plumular shoot failed to develop in about 10% of seedlings. When the plumular shoot failed to develop a nonplumular seedling shoot displaced the original seedling axis to a lateral position near the base of the developing nonplumular shoot. The undeveloped seedling axis may remain attached and living for several years. In P. californicum the plumular shoot never developed in two of the populations studied, but did develop in a small percentage of individuals in a third population. In both species nonplumular shoots developed from a mass of tissue, termed the haustorial cushion, that forms immediately beneath the holdfast. A haustorial cushion was also observed in P. densum, but the shoot buds that formed on the cushion rarely developed into shoots. Cotyledon characters also varied between species, but in all four species the small cotyledons were persistent. Contrary to earlier reports, the cotyledons do not later develop into foliage leaves. In agreement with Kuijt (1990) we regard the cryptocotylar condition observed in P. californicum and, on rare occasion, in P. juniperinum, both squamate species, to be advanced. The morphological, ecological and evolutionary implications of these observations are illustrated and discussed.
41426235|Tumamoca is a small genus of perennial North American cucurbits related to Ibervillea, Ceratosanthes, Doyerea, and Halosicyos (tribe Melothrieae, subtribe Dendrosicyinae). Tumamoca, previously considered monotypic, is now known to have two species, T. macdougalii of the Sonoran Desert and the here described T. mucronata from northern Mexico. Tumamoca, un genero pequeo de Cucurbitceas Norteamericanas, est mas cerca a Ibervillea, Ceratosanthes, Doyerea, y Halosicyos (tribe Melothrieae, subtribo Dendrosicyinae). Antes de esta revision, Tumamoca estaba monotypica, ahora sabemos que hay dos especies, T. macdougalii del Desierto de Sonora y la especie, nueva, T. mucronata desde Mexico norteo.
43289033|The fern-leaved monkey flower, Mimulus filicifolius (Phrymaceae, Section Simio lus), is a new species described from the northwestern corner of the Sierra Nevada of California. The new taxon is differentiated from close relatives of Mimulus L. (M. laciniatus Gray and M. guttatus DC.) mostly by having many finely divided, bi-pinnately compound leaves. Mimulus filicifolius occurs mainly within ephemeral seeps of rock outcrops, where it occupies similar habitats to M. laciniatus, which occurs farther south in the Sierra Nevada. Mimulus filicifolius appears to be highly geographically restricted, and is currently known only from Butte and Plumas Counties within the Plumas National Forest. It therefore merits strong conservation consideration.
41425700|We describe Frangula purshiana (DC.) Cooper subsp. ultramafica J. O. Sawyer & S. W. Edwards, an endemic to the Sierra Nevada in Plumas National Forest, and compare it with other subspecies of F.purshiana. We discuss the use of the generic names Frangula and Rhamnus in the California flora. We also make a new combination Frangula purshiana (DC.) Cooper subsp.annonifolia (Greene) J. O.Sawyer & S. W. Edwards.
41425764|A new species, Eriastrum signatum D. Gowen, is described for most plants previously identified as E. sparsiflorum, and a new combination, E. harwoodii (T. T. Craig) D. Gowen, is proposed for densely woolly plants having apiculate corolla lobes found in the eastern Mojave Desert. Additionally, both E. sparsiflorum and E. tracyi are discussed, and a key to Eriastrum with small stamens is provided. Eriastrum sparsiflorum is a minutely glandular-pubescent annual plant limited to small areas in the southern Sierra Nevada, and along the eastern base of the Sierra in California and western Nevada. Eriastrum sparsiflorum has been misapplied to Eriastrum signatum and E. tracyi. Eriastrum signatum ranges from Oregon to southern California and western Nevada, and differs from E. sparsiflorum by having a dark maroon colored spot at the base of the corolla lobes and lacking glandular hairs. Eriastrum tracyi, which is presently placed in synonomy under E. brandegeeae, warrants recognition as a distinct taxon. It occurs on coastal ranges of California, the western edge of the Modoc Plateau in northeastern Shasta County, as well as the southwestern Sierra Nevada.
41424563|The pinyon pines in the New York Mountains of the Mojave Desert are polymorphic along an altitudinal gradient. The possibility that this gradient is the result of hybridization between Pinus monophylla and P. edulis is the subject of this study. Counts of needle number per fascicle, resin canal number per needle, and cone width were made over the entire altitudinal range of distribution of the pine community. We conclude that there are two species present and that an extensive altitudinal zone of introgression exists at intermediate elevations.
41424288|Two specimens from desertic mountains of Coahuila, Mexico, are described as Chiococca henricksonii, distinguished by its extreme xeromorphy, microphylly, and inflorescences that are reduced to solitary flowers. Tetramerous flowers are reported in the genus for the first time. Chiococca henricksonii appears to have relationships to C. alba, C. pachyphylla, and C. petrina.
41424739|The Sierra de la Laguna is the main high mountain range in the southern portion of the arid state of Baja California Sur (Mexico). It is high and narrow, rising boldly from coastal lowlands, with many precipitous and rocky slopes. Its peaks reach up to 2200 m. Above 1500 m the Sierra is occupied by the only montane woodland community in the state and it is believed to have been an island in both the strict and biological senses. Our botanical survey in the oak-pine woodland community of the Sierra de la Laguna, between 1982 and late 1987, reports 66 families of vascular plants, including 228 taxa. These are distributed in four groups by habit: 8% are trees, 10% are shrubs or subshrubs, 43% are short-lived perennial herbs, and 14% are hydrophytes. About 17% of this flora may be considered endemic. Almost a century ago, a survey in approximately the same area (by T. S. Brandegee) yielded 146 taxa of vascular plants. The main purpose of this study is to document botanical resources in support of the establishment of this plant community as a preserve, in accordance with some MAB-UNESCO fundamentals. La Sierra de la Laguna se ubica en la porcion ms elevada de las montaas del sur del rido estado de Baja California Sur (Mxico). La serrana se eleva sobre de una inmensa planicie costera y se caracteriza por lo pronunciado de sus declives. Las cimas alcanzan hasta 2200 m de altitud. Por encima de los 1500 m se encuentra la unica comunidad propiamente boscosa de la entidad, entre sta y los 1000 m se ubica un encinar; sta comunidad puede ser considerada como una isla tanto en el sentido estricto como biolgico. Las exploraciones efectuadas han rendido hasta la fecha 228 especies de plantas vasculares comprendidas en 66 familias. Estas se han ubicado en las siguientes formas de vida: 8% rboles, 10% arbustos o subarbustos, 43% de herbceas, y 14% de hidrfitas. Casi el 17% de la flora considerada es endmica. Hace casi un siglo T. S. Brandegee realiz una investigacin florstica en la misma rea reportando slo 146 taxa. El objetivo central de este trabajo consiste en actualizar el conocimiento florstico de la serrana en referencia, actualmente en vias de decretarla como una Reserva de la Bisfera de acuerdo con los planteamientos de MABUNESCO.
41425068|California's is the largest state flora in the nation. Because of California's high level of plant endemism, rich agricultural heritage, and burgeoning human population, the state has more rare and endangered plants than any other. Lack of knowledge about some of these plants limits their conservation: taxonomie and distributional uncertainty often precludes active conservation, since dubious or poorly known taxa are a lower conservation priority and resources for conservation efforts are scarce. For two reasons this predicament is more extreme in California than elsewhere. First, on a strictly proportional basis, large floras are less well known. Second, much of the flora is young and evolving rapidly (or was before human interruption), resulting in limited morphological and genetic divergence and reproductive isolation among closely related plants. Many taxonomie treatments are consequently unstable: rare variants are relegated to taxonomie synonymy by one author only to be recognized by later authors, or vice versa (Edwards and Clinnick 1993). During preparation of the fifth edition of the California Native Plant Society (CNPS) Inventory of Rare and Endangered Vascular Plants of California (Skinner and Pavlik 1994), the editors identified over 150 instances of taxonomie and distributional uncertainty which might be clarified by carefully designed systematic and field studies. Further investigation has revealed many others. All are presented here, along with a compendium of California's extinct plants, some of which have potential to be rediscovered. California botanists can help alleviate botanical uncertainty by undertaking appropriate biosystematic or field studies that focus on problematic groups or taxa within California's rare flora. We suggest that the CNPS Rare Plant Program's Rare Plant Scientific Advisory Committee is the ideal agent to coordinate and track systematic and distributional studies of California's rare plants. The Rare Plant Program already maintains active databases tracking progress on the rare plant information needs in California, and CNPS is introducing a new grant program focusing on fundamental rare plant research in California. The involvement of other institutions is encouraged. In particular, faculty members at teaching institutions can contribute through appropriate guidance of graduate research. We urge California's botanical community to participate in these efforts and contribute to better understanding and enhanced protection of California's rare and endangered flora.
41426173|Symplocos sousae, distinguished by solitary, axillary, 5-merous flowers, persistent floral bracts, and glabrous drupaceous fruits, is described from the Sierra Manantln in Jalisco and the region of San Andres Chicahuaxtla in Oaxaca, Mexico. Its closest affinities are with S. coccinea Humb. & Bonpl. and S. prionophylla Hemsl., both of which are also endemic to Mexico.
41424772|Based on morphological and cytological evidence, Bealia is recognized as a genus with a single species, B. mexicana.This genus may be related to Dasyochloa and Erioneuron as the three share a base chromosome number of x=8 and a number of morphological features. A key distinguishing Bealia, Dasyochloa, Erioneuron, and Muhlenbergia is presented. A full description, illustration, and citation of specimens examined are given for Bealia mexicana. En base a la evidencia morfolgica y citolgica Bealia es reconocido como un genero monotpico, conteniendo la especie B. mexicana. Bealia parece estar relacionado a Dasyochloa y Erioneuron por el hecho de que los tres gneros comparten el mismo numero bsico de cromosomas (x=8) y otros tantos caracteres morpholgicos.El presente artculo provee una clave para los gneros Bealia, Dasyochloa, Erioneuron y Muhlenbergia. Presentase adems una descripcin comprensiva de Bealia mexicana, as como su ilustracin y citacin de ejemplares estudiados.
43288992|Cryptantha martirensis M. G. Simpson & Rebman is described as new, being endemic to high elevations of the Sierra de San Pedro Mrtir of Baja California, Mexico. It is sparse to common in the understory of coniferous woodland and in montane arroyos, slopes, and ridges in sandy to gravelly granitic substrates. This new species is similar to C. muricata (Hooker & Arnott) A. Nelson & J. F. Macbride in having nutlets with a shallow, dorsal ridge. It differs from the three recognized varieties of C. muricata in having a combination of tall and virgate primary stems with short and clustered inflorescence units; stems with mostly appressed and a few sparse, fine, spreading trichomes; a small corolla limb; and relatively large nutlets with dorsal tubercles that are low, rounded, and few per area. Quantitative evidence justifying these differences is summarized.
41425013|Publication of The Jepson Manual provides the opportunity to examine recent changes in California's alien flora. After accounting for inconsistencies we determined that The Manual reports 151 established alien species that were not included in any earlier statewide flora and eliminates 101 alien species that were included in one or more earlier statewide floras. The Manual and errata published in 1993 report a total of 1025 alien species in the state, which suggests the rate of alien species establishment has slowed during the last 25 or more years. Prior to this, the number of established alien plant species reported had grown exponentially since the time of European colonization. We list nine additional naturalizing aliens that have not yet been included in a statewide flora: Amaranthus rudis, Catalpa bignonioides, Nerium oleander, Panicum texanum, Peganum harmala, Spartina anglica, Verbascum olympicum, Pinus halepensis, Pinus pinea. The original (native) ranges of the "new" aliens differ slightly from those of earlier introductions; the majority are still of Eurasian origin but there has been an increase in the proportion of species introduced from North and Central America (about 15%) and from southern Africa (about 8%). The new introductions are not concentrated in one or a few areas. Instead, individual species sites-of-introduction are scattered throughout the state and in a variety of habitats.We also ascertained numbers and percentages of naturalized alien species from recently published floras for 37 other areas of North America and Hawaii. California has a higher number (1025) than any other area except New York state, which has 1082. California also has the fourth highest extrapolated mean number of alien species per 10 km (182.2) of the areas analyzed but the percentage of the state's flora composed of aliens (ca 17.5%) is below that in 14 other areas.
41424935|Use of plant growth rings for age determination requires distinct rings and verification that these are produced annually. In this study of southern California chaparral shrubs, the sharpest rings were produced by shallow-rooted, non-sprouting species of Arctostaphylos and Ceanothus. The least distinct rings were produced by the deeprooted resprouting shrub Malosma laurina. Ring counts on stems from stands of known age indicated that on some sites the majority of shrubs can be accurate indicators of stand age; but, some may not be. Non-sprouting species of Ceanothus and Arctostaphylos were good indicators of stand age as stems generally did not deviate from stand age by more than 5%. However, in older stands a large proportion of these taxa could not be aged due to heartrot. Some stems on resprouting shrubs deviated widely from stand age. Interpretation of this pattern is complicated by the often continuous nature of stem recruitment in years subsequent to fire and thus, many of the stems (ramets) of such species will not be an accurate measure of the shrub (genet) age. At one site, an indirect technique was used to show that shrubs are not producing extra "false rings" or are not missing rings. At this site there was a marked synchrony of maximum ring width for the same year for six species. This ring was the widest, out of the last 16 rings, and coincided with one of the highest rainfall years in recent history.
41424859|Detrended Canonical Correspondence Analysis (DCCA) was used to identify and classify groups of vascular plants in two desert marshes, the Babocomari Cinega and the Canelo Hills Cinega, in southeastern Arizona. Species composition and the effect of several environmental factors on species distributions were identified by direct gradient analysis using DCCA. The species distributions were best correlated with environmental factors related to the moisture regime (Babocomari Cinega) and to the amount of canopy cover (Canelo Hills Cinega). They were least correlated with disturbance and bare ground at both the Babocomari Cinega and the Canelo Hills Cinega. Based on the selected environmental factors, three main species groups were identified at the Babocomari Cinega and at the Canelo Hills Cinega. Rorippa nasturtium-aquaticum and Berula erecta dominate the stream area where water is deepest and flowing and canopy cover is the greatest. Eleocharis macrostachya and Muhlenbergia asperifolia dominate the cinega area where water is shallow and standing. Muhlenbergia rigens and Ambrosia trfida dominate the periphery where there is no standing water and soils are dry. Differences in species composition within these areas between cinegas may reflect differences due to land use history. Para identificar y clasificar grupos de plantas vasculares en dos cinegas desrticas del sureste del Arizona, la Babocomari Cinega y la Canelo Hills Cinega, se us la tcnica de ordenacin "Detrended Canonical Correspondence Analysis" (DCCA). La composicin florstica y el efecto de varios factores ambientales en la distribucin de las especies se identificaron con un anlisis directo de gradiente usando DCCA. La distribucin de las especies estuvo mejor correlacionada con factores ambientales asociados con el rgimen de humedad (Babocomari Cinega) y con la coberatura vegetal (Canelo Hills Cinega); pero menos correlacionada con las perturbaciones y la proporcin de suelo desnudo. Con base en los factores ambientales selectos, se identificaron tres grupos principales de especies en la Babocomari Cinega y la Canelo Hills Cinega. Rorippa nasturtium-aquaticum y Berula erecta dominaron en la zona de corriente, donde el agua fluye y es ms profunda. Eleocharis macrostachya y Muhlenbergia asperifolia dominaron en la zona cinega, donde el agua es somera y quieta. Muhlenbergia rigens y Ambrosia trfida dominaron en la periferia donde no hay agua y el suelo est seco. Las diferencias en composicin florstica de las cinegas dentro de estas zonas puede reflejar diferencias histricas en el uso de la tierra.
41424524|Chromosome numbers were ascertained from aceto-carmine squash preparations for members of the Mimulus glabratus complex that had been little studied previously. Representative populations of M. glabratus var. fremontii from Chihuahua, Durango, and Baja California Sur were found to have n = 15 chromosomes. Populations from Colombia, the disjunct South American range of M. glabratus var. glabratus, have n = 31 chromosomes. Populations from Peru of M. andicolus and M. pilosiusculus have n = 46. An intergrading population between M. glabratus var. glabratus (n = 31) and M. andicolus (n = 46) was found at Pasto on the southern border of Colombia.
41424671|Crossing relationships were studied within and among the variable populations of Pinus muricata to test hypotheses about crossing barriers among certain populations.Crossability was assessed at the level of viable seed production following planned crosses. Populations north of Sea Ranch, Sonoma Co., California, crossed freely with parapatric but genetically distinct populations in central Sonoma Co., although some reduction in seed-set occurred in the F and backcrosses to F. The distinctness of these adjacent populations is most likely not maintained by post-pollination crossing barriers. Crossability of disjunct P. muricata populations generally decreased with distance between populations. Populations north of Sea Ranch crossed freely with the Pt. Reyes population in Marin Co., less readily with the Monterey population, and not at all with the Purisima (southern California) or Baja California populations.Mainland and island P. muricata populations south of Monterey were highly interfertile.Test crosses were also attempted between P. muricata and the island populations of P. radiata, which have been considered closely related to southern P.muricata populations. Pinus muricata from Baja California did not cross, however, with either Guadalupe Island pine (P. radiata var. binata) or Cedros Island pine (P.radiata var. cedrosensis). Together with results from other crossing studies in the Californian closed-cone pines, the patterns of crossability indicate three crossing units in P. muricata: 1) northern P. muricata populations from Marin Co. northward, which are reproductively isolated from, 2) southern P. muricata populations including mainland and Channel Islands populations from Purisima southward, and 3) Monterey P. muricata, which is intermediate between the first two units.
41426157|Natural populations exist of the hybrids Eschscholzia californica X E. caespitosa and E. californica X E. lobbii. Crossing and backcrossing experiments demonstrate pronounced unilateral fertility between E. californica and E. caespitosa (the former more often fertile). Growth of con-and interspecific pollen on excised styles and pollination with interspecific and later conspecific pollen show that the cause of this unilateral fertility is mainly seed abortion. Similar tests show a nearly complete bilateral fertility barrier between E. lobbii and E. californica that is based on seed abortion and unilateral stylar incompatibility; and they show that complete bilateral infertility exists between E. lobbii and E. caespitosa and is caused by seed abortion. An explanation of the patterns of fertility and their physiological bases is offered in terms of breeding system, chromosome number and repatterning, selection for barriers to gene flow, and reproductive life spans of the species. A consequence of unilateral fertility is unilateral introgression.
41426335|For an old-growth forest edge in the Sierra Nevada, we quantified the extent of edge effects from a group selection harvest. Across transects from the interior of the old-growth forest through the group selection opening, we quantified changes in resource availability (light, soil moisture, and seedbed) and vegetation composition (cover, richness). We found a steep change in light availability and community composition from the intact old-growth to the group selection. Both parametric and non-parametric multivariate analyses indicated two distinct plant associations, old-growth and group selection, with little indication of an edge association. Understory plant species richness normalized to a total area sampled of 0.25 ha was significantly greater in the group selection (74 species) than in the old-growth (55 species). Chimaphila umbellata and Carex brainerdii were the most abundant species in the old-growth and group selection respectively. Tragopogn dubius was the most abundant of six exotic species found in the group selection while there were no nonnative species found in the old-growth forest.
41424742|Erigeron acomanus is an inhabitant of sandy slopes beneath sandstone cliffs in central New Mexico. It is morphologically similar to E. tener of the Intermountain Region of the western United States. Erigeron acomanus has 16-30 white rays, has 4-10 leaves on the flowering stem, and forms leafy mats 10-70 cm in diameter. Pappus bristles are 20-25 in number and are about the length of the disk corolla. Erigeron acomanus lacks the peg-like glandular hairs present on the stems of E. tener.
41425758|Mount Pinos at the western margin of the Transverse Ranges of Southern California, reaches 2692 m in elevation at its peak. The broad summit of the mountain supports an area of subalpine fellfield vegetation, as well as an unusual low elevation occurrence of limber pine (Pinus flexilis). We describe the summit area of the mountain and characterize the community structure and ecophysiology of the fellfield community and associated pines. The fellfield community, dominated by low mats and cushions of Eriogonum kennedyi, Phlox diffusa, and Lupinus breweri var. bryoides, has a mean plant cover of 44%. These fellfield species have amphistomatic leaves with abundant, slender palisade cells on both sides of the mesophyll. These traits represent a strategy shared with desert plants. Amphistomaty helps to increase assimilation by maximizing stomatal conductance to CO during the gas phase of diffusion, and the isolateral mesophyll maximizes diffusion of CO by exposing a very high mesophyll membrane area per leaf surface area. However, the mean maximum rates of assimilation measured for Phlox diffusa, Eriogonum kennedyi, Astragalus purshhii var. tinctus, and Lupinus breweri var. bryoides were 6.8 to 13.9 mol CO m s, placing them in the lower range of those measured in alpine areas of the world.
41425239|Low and moderate intensity surface fires have been accepted as a natural and beneficial part of the upper montane mixed conifer forests in the northern Sierra Nevada, both in terms of reducing risk of crown fires and improving the ecological health of forests. Stand-replacing fires have not generally been considered ecologically significant, in part because they have been assumed to be historically unimportant. However, high intensity stand-replacing fires did occur prior to fire suppression and may have affected vegetation structure more than previously thought. The occurrence of an extensive, pre-suppression, stand-replacing fire at the south end of Lake Tahoe on Angora Ridge was supported using historical evidence, aerial photographs, and stand age analysis. Data was gathered on the structure and composition of current vegetation on Angora Ridge and three subsequent stand-replacing fires using randomly selected plots. The post fire vegetation on these sites were compared in regard to species diversity, fuel accumulation, stand density, and composition. Results indicate that a long period of herb and shrub domination occurred on Angora Ridge after the 1890' s fire. The treeless period was followed by simultaneous recruitment of fir and pine. The sites of the three later fires have developed little forest canopy up to the present, and currently remain dominated by shrubs and small trees. While surface fuel accumulation and the density of standing dead trees were higher on Angora Ridge than on the other fire sites, species diversity was lower.
41425458|Inclusion of Hymenoclea within the taxonomic circumscription of Ambrosia necessitates new combinations: Ambrosia monogyra, A. xplatyspina, A. salsola, A. salsola var. fasciculata, and A. salsola var. pentalepis.
41426200|Two California serpentine endemics, Streptanthus drepanoides Kruckeberg & Morrison, from the North Coast Ranges (Tehama to Trinity Counties) and S. insignis Jeps. subsp. lyonii Kruckeberg & Morrison from western Merced County, are described. Five new sections in Streptanthus, subgenus Euclisia, are also described.
41702399|A new species of monkeyflower, Mimulus sookensis, is described. This species is found throughout the southern portion of Vancouver Island, the Gulf Islands of British Columbia, the San Juan Islands of Washington state, the Willamette and Umpqua River Valleys in Oregon, and has been collected at one location in Mendocino County, California. Mimulus sookensis is a tetraploid species (n = 28) derived from the predominately outcrossing Mimulus guttatus DC. (n = 14) and the predominately self-pollinating Mimulus nasutus Greene (n = 14). Mimulus sookensis is similar phenotypically to the small-flowered M. nasutus, but differs in chromosome number, height, and by a slightly more narrowed corolla tube than that of M. nasutus. It is commonly found on wet hillsides, seeps, cutbanks, and in roadside ditches, often co-occuring with M. guttatus but infrequently with M. nasutus.
41425783|Eriophyllum lanatum vars. achilleoides and leucophyllum intergrade in southwestern Oregon. Some populations cannot be unequivocally assigned to either variety. Chromosome counts showed polyploid populations predominating where the varieties meet in southwestern Oregon. Pollen fertility, estimated by cotton blue-lactophenol staining, was the main criterion used to assess barriers to interbreeding. Artificial hybridizations between diploids revealed barriers to interbreeding between vars. achilleoides and leucophyllum, and between each of them and a morphologically intermediate population. The barriers to interbreeding are substantially less developed than those present between most of the other eight varieties of the E. lanatum complex. Supernumerary chromosomes are postulated to be adaptive in Eriophyllum hybrid zones.
41424358|Quantitative phytosociological data from thirty stands sampled along an elevational gradient (1220-2440 m) in Yosemite National Park are used to generate a direct environmental ordination (elevation vs. a scalar-index integrating site topographic parameters) and two compositional ordinations (Bray-Curtis technique and reciprocal averaging). In each case, elevation emerged as the principal factor controlling forest pattern. Environmental scaling revealed that lower elevation forests (1220-1900 m) in Yosemite consist of a ponderosa pine/incense-cedar type on xeric topographic settings and a white fir/incense-cedar type on mesic topographic settings. Higher elevation forest (1900-2400 m) are generally dominated by a mixture of red fir and white fir, although neither the environmental nor the compositional arrangement of stands adequately accounts for patterns of species dominance in these forests. In this study, integrated use of environmental and compositional techniques reinforce interpretations as well as provide insights which are not directly apparent from independent use of either approach.
41425476|Evidence of relationships based on randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) data combined with information about cpDNA haplotypes can be used to resolve details of reticulate ancestry in an otherwise intractable polyploid complex in Gaudichaudia (Malpighiaceae). Robust inference of genetic relationships among taxa, however, depends critically on two assumptions: (1) character states compared among taxa are homologous, and (2) characters scored as different are independent. Application of randomly amplified DNA methods, such as RAPD's, have largely made these assumptions without testing them. In this study I use RAPD's to elucidate relationships among lineages and to infer reticulate ancestry of amphiploid lineages in Gaudichaudia. I test the assumption that comigrating RAPD fragments are homologous using hybridization of radio-labeled RAPD fragments probed against blots of randomly amplified DNA as an indicator of homology. The probes bind strongly only to fragments on the blots having sequence homology. Results demonstrate that all gel fragments included in the analysis meet the assumption of homology. Gel fragments can therefore be reliably scored directly as characters. The assumption of independence of RAPD fragments is also explored. Although multiple fragments with strong sequence homology appear in most blots, gel-visualized fragments are generally independent. La evidencia de relaciones basadas en datos de DNA polimrfico aleatoriamente amplificado (RAPD) combinados con informacin sobre haplotipos cpDNA se puede utilizar para resolver detalles, de otra manera insuperables, de ascendencia reticulada en un complejo poliploide en Gaudichaudia (Malpighiaceae). La solida inferencia de relaciones genticas entre especies, sin embargo, depende crticamente de dos supuestos: (1) los estados del carcter comparados entre grupos taxonmicos son homlogos, y (2) los caracteres anotados como diferentes son independientes. El uso de los mtodos de DNA amplificado aleatoriamente, tales como los RAPD's, ha hecho estas asunciones en gran parte sin probarlas. En este estudio utilizo RAPD's para aclarar relaciones entre linajes y para deducir la ascendencia del reticulado de linajes de anfiploides en Gaudichaudia. Pongo a prueba la asuncin de que los fragmentos comigrantes de RAPD son homlogos usando la hibridacin de fragmentos RAPD marcados radiactivamente como testigos contra manchas de DNA aleatoriamente amplificado como un indicador de la homologa. Los testigos se adhieren fuertemente solamente a aquellos fragmentos dentro de las manchas que tienen homologa de secuencia. Los resultados demuestran que todos los fragmentos del gel incluidos en el anlisis cumplen con la asuncin de la homologa. Los fragmentos de gel se pueden por lo tanto contar confiablemente directamente como caracteres. Tambin se explora la asuncin de independencia de los fragmentos de RAPD. Aunque los fragmentos mltiples con fuerte homologa de secuencia aparecen en la mayora de las manchas, los fragmentos gel-visualizados son generalmente independientes.
41424656|An annotated catalogue of the vascular flora was compiled from field collections and herbarium records from the eastern third of Imperial Co., California, including wetland habitats along the lower Colorado River. The study area is located in the Lower Colorado Valley subdivision of the Sonoran Desert, an arid area with little elevational relief. The flora is correspondingly depauperate, with only 278 native species recorded from 2050 km, including 56 species found only in wetland habitats along the lower Colorado River. Ecological and floristic factors that contribute to the low diversity include a relative lack of habitat differentiation among desert species and the lack of a well developed herbaceous perennial flora.
41426297|Atriplex robusta is a newly described species from northwestern Utah. It is abundant along the shoulders of roads and highways and in slightly elevated terrain within and bordering saline playas. It appears to be morphologically closest to A. tridentata Kuntze but differs in its larger stature, more woody, caespitose habit, larger urn-shaped fruiting bracts and broader leaves.
41702406|This study compares postfire regeneration and diversity patterns in fire-prone chaparral shrublands from mediterranean (California) and non-mediterranean-type climates (Arizona). Vegetation sampling was conducted in tenth hectare plots with nested subplots for the first two years after fire. Floras in the two regions were compared with Jaccard's Index and importance of families and genera compared with dominance-diversity curves. Although there were 44 families in common between the two regions, the dominant families differed; Poaceae and Fabaceae in Arizona and Hydrophyllaceae and Rosaceae in California. Dominance diversity curves indicated in the first year a more equable distribution of families in Arizona than in California. Woody plants were much more dominant in the mediterranean climate and herbaceous plants more dominant in the bimodal rainfall climate. Species diversity was comparable in both regions at the lowest spatial scales but not at the tenth hectare scale. Due to the double growing season in the non-mediterranean region, the diversity for the first year comprised two different herbaceous floras in the fall and spring growing seasons. The Mediterranean climate in California, in contrast, had only a spring growing season and thus the total diversity for the first year was significantly greater in Arizona than in California for both annuals and herbaceous perennials. Chaparral in these two climate regimes share many dominant shrub species but the postfire communities are very different. Arizona chaparral has both a spring and fall growing season and these produce two very different postfire floras. When combined, the total annual diversity was substantially greater in Arizona chaparral.
41426283|The importance of high quality vegetation maps for land management is rapidly gaining recognition. Unfortunately, most vegetation maps in the western USA are old, have coarse resolution, or are not ground-truthed. Vouchers for these maps, even of the dominant species, are lacking. This makes natural resource management decisions, including those made during disasters such as fire, difficult or sometimes damaging because managers lack the basic information they need to make these decisions. In an effort to fill the information gaps, many vegetation mapping projects have been implemented across the nation, but those that want the maps often do not think of including species inventories in the mapping activities. At the same time, botanists continue to have difficulty finding funding for complete species inventories. This situation represents an opportunity to combine the skills of botanists with the needs of land managers. I present examples of vegetation projects I was involved in, in which I convinced the project leaders to incorporate plant species inventories in the mapping activities. The addition of species distribution information increased the quality, usefulness, and accuracy of these projects. Funding for species inventories can be found in restoration budgets. Botanists should take it upon themselves to involve themselves in mapping projects. Further, if botanists are willing to make their case, they should be able to convince the public and funding authorities to spend a little restoration money on species surveys before the need to restore arises.
41425782|We investigated the possible spatial structure and temporal patterns that may determine the distribution and cover of Eleocharis macrostachya and Orcuttia tenuis within two vernal pools located in Tehama County, California. Rock cover, soil depth to hardpan, and basin elevation were compared with E. macrostachya and O. tenuis cover to investigate spatial structure. Yearly E. macrostachya and O. tenuis cover were compared with yearly precipitation and air temperature to assess temporal patterns. The spatial results suggest that soil depth to hardpan may determine E. macrostachya distribution. Rock cover and basin elevation appeared to have little effect on either E. macrostachya or O. tenuis distribution. Temporal analyses suggest that biotic interactions such as life history traits and competition may be important factors for E. macrostachya and O. tenuis distribution and density. Orcuttia tenuis cover is relatively stable at scale of 1.0 m but varies at a 0.25 m. Variability at a micro scale could be due to variations in annual air temperatures causing a possible shifting mosaic steady state. Orcuttia tenuis life history traits coincide with adaptations expected for warmer temperatures. Even though abundance is relatively stable for O. tenuis and E. macrostachya in both pools, there is significant negative correlation and spatial structure between them. Eleocharis macrostachya may dictate O. tenuis density within a pool through a combination of abiotic and biotic features.
41425084|Twenty-eight low elevation peatlands in Idaho and northeastern Washington were surveyed for their flora. The flora contains 20 bryophyte and 291 vascular species, 62% of the species are boreal, 22% are western cordilleran, and 16% are widespread. Although most species are of boreal affinity, the Idaho peatland flora has relatively low similarity to other peatland floras in North America. The low similarity may be explained in part by the lack of trees and ericaceous shrubs in Idaho peatlands, and the relatively unknown status of Idaho's bryophyte flora. Five species, previously unknown for Idaho, were documented as peatland inhabitants: Carex chordorrhiza, Eleocharis tenuis, Eriophorum viridicarinatum, Iris versicolor, and Rubus pubescens.
41424576|The locations and characteristics of five, small, previously undescribed stands of bishop pine (Pinus muricata) in central Marin Co., California, are reported. Three stands lie on dry sites in the Kent Lake Drainage north of Mt. Tamalpais: San Gernimo Ridge, a spur ridge above Little Carson Cr., and Oat Hill. These stands are anomalous in occurring 15 km from the ocean and up to 435 m in elevation. The remaining two stands are on rocky, dry sites on the west slope of Bolinas Ridge, near the McCurdy Trail, and south of Wilkins Gulch. Trees of all stands have slower growth, more spindly stems, sparser crowns, and bear more abundant, serotinous cones than trees of other northern California populations. Stomatal traits and number of leaf resin canals, however, resembled coastal bishop pines on Pt. Reyes. Bishop pine once may have grown more widespread in Marin Co., but mesic-adapted stands evolved on Pt. Reyes and xeric, fire-adapted stands evolved in the interior.
41425317|A new genus, Constancea, for Eriophyllum nevinii, is erected in light of evidence that Eriophyllum is polyphyletic. Constancea, endemic to the southern Channel Islands of California, appears to be the sole representative of a lineage that diverged early in the history of either subtribe Baeriinae or the putativelysister clade comprising most other  = 19 genera of helenioid Heliantheae (i.e., Arnica, Eatonella s. str., Hulsea, and Venegasia) plus Madiinae. Morphological characteristics of Constancea shared with other, closely related  = 19 helenioid lineages but rare or absent in the clade comprising Eriophyllum, Pseudobahia, and Syntrichopappus include well-developed petioles, phyllaries in more than one series and exceeding the number of ray florets, and pappus scales unequal or a longer pair opposite and  equal.
41425577|Morphological intermediates between Tamarix ramosissima or T. chinensis (saltcedars) and T. aphylla (athel) were found recently in three locations in the southwestern USA, and were assumed to be hybrids or a previously unreported species. We sequenced chloroplast and nuclear DNA from putative parental and hybrid morphotypes and hybrid status of morphological intermediates was supported. Chloroplast data suggest that the seed source for these hybrids is T. aphylla. Invasive T. aphylla genotypes found in Australia match those found in the USA. Seed was collected from one of the hybrids, and a low percentage of it was viable. This hybrid combination has not been previously reported in the USA or the native ranges of the species. Although populations of this novel Tamarix hybrid appear to be uncommon at present, both parental species are considered invasive (saltcedars in North America; athel in Australia), and it is possible that more aggressive hybrid genotypes could be produced. Therefore, natural resource managers concerned with the potential spread of non-native species should be aware of the existence of these plants and monitor their future spread.
41425472|Mammillaria grahamii is an outcrossing species that can flower as many as four times a year. The number of flowers produced by an individual plant depends largely on plant volume. Fruit set is high, about 77%. Flowers normally live one day but can open a second day when pollination is inadequate. Flower production within a population varies interannually and increases with rain in the week before flowering. Even heavy rains do not induce all potentially fertile tubercules to flower during a single event. Because some tubercules are withheld, plants can flower several times a year, given appropriate conditions. Mammillaria grahamii plants risk poor fruit set if they happen to flower when pollinator populations are low or when pollinators preferentially visit other species. Withholding of tubercules might allow plants to spread this risk across the entire flowring season, thus increasing the probability that flowerin will coincide with pollinator activity.
41425579|Forest encroachment into grasslands is a widespread phenomenon with significant implications for land management. We examined the influence of seed dispersal and prdation on the encroachment of two tree species, Lithocarpus densiflora and Pseudotsuga menziesii, into a coastal California grassland. We mapped the distributions of L. densiflora and P. menziesii seedlings and saplings and L densiflora acorns across the forest-grassland ecotone as well as quantified the fates of seeds of both species experimentally located at five distances across the ecotone. Species distributions varied, with P. menziesii being most abundant in the grassland and at the edge and L. densiflora in the forest. Lithocarpus densiflora acorns were absent from the grassland but equally abundant at the edge and forest. Seed prdation was similar for both species, being low in the grassland, variable at the edge, and high in the forest. It appears that L. densiflora encroachment into the grassland is strongly influenced by seed dispersal, while P. menziesii encroachment is more likely influenced by seed prdation than dispersal.
41424762|A new taxon, Hastingsia serpentinicola, is segregated from Hastingsia alba. The range of Hastingsia serpentinicola is sympatric with that of H. alba except for the northern Sierra Nevada where no H. serpentinicola has been found. Hastingsia serpentinicola is exclusively limited to serpentine soils. It occupies dry open hillsides and does not occur within the permanently wet, boggy habitats of H. alba. There is no evidence of hybridization. The segregation of Hastingsia serpentinicola necessitated an emended description of H. alba.
41426202|Two new species are described from a localized gypseous area in southwestern Nuevo Leon; plants of both apparently grow only on the outcrops. Calochortus marcellae is most closely related to C. barbatus, C. pringlei, and C. fuscus. Linum gypsogenium is most closely related to L. scabrellum.
41424227|Lycium arochae is a distinctive new species known from a single population in central Coahuila, Mexico, where it is a codominant species in extensive alluvial flats surrounding the playa of Laguna Colorada. The species shows relationships to Lycium berlandieri Dunal and L. pallidum Miers.
41426245|Euphorbia gentryi, a new species from northwestern Mexico, is described and illustrated. The species is treated in subgenus Agaloma and is distinguished from its relatives in northwestern Mexico by the combination of its glabrous herbage; large, white appendages; and membranaceous, mostly linear leaves with short petioles. Euphorbia hindsiana is recognized as distinct from E. californica, and a key to E. gentryi, E. misera, E. californica, and E. hindsiana is presented. Se describe e ilustra Euphorbia gentryi como especie nueva del noroeste de Mxico. Pertenece al subgnero Agaloma y se distingue por la combinacin de su herbaje glabro; apndices blancos y grandes; y hojas membranceas con pecolos cortos y con lminas generalmente lineares. Se reconoce E. hindsiana como especie distinta de E. californica y se presenta una clave para E. gentryi, E. misera, E. californica, y E.hindsiana.
41426233|Arctostaphylos rainbowensis Keeley & Massihi is a new burl-forming manzanita restricted to northwestern San Diego County and adjacent Riverside County. Previously it had been treated as a disjunct population of the largely Baja Californian A. peninsularis P; Wells or a hybrid between A. glandulosa Eastw. and A. glauca Lindley. Principal components analysis on 48 characters shows that A. rainbowensis is distinct from all three of these species. It differs from A. peninsularis in its larger leaves with almost twice as many stomata on the abaxial as on the adaxial surface, sparsely glandular puberulent branchlets and rachises, more widely spaced floral bracts, shorter arid thicker pedicels, larger fruits that are darker and purple tinged, mealy mesocarp and smooth endocarp. Arctostaphylos rainbowensis differs further from A. peninsularis in its ecological distribution; A. peninsularis is a species of the interior, distributed at elevations above 1200 m whereas A. rainbowensis is a low elevation coastal range species. Arctostaphylos rainbowensis is distinct from A. glandulosa in its diploid chromosome number, non-scabrous leaves, reduced floral bracts, and larger fruits that are round with a solid stone. It differs from A. glauca in having a burl, non-reflexd floral bracts, and smaller, non-viscid fruits. Arctostaphylos rainbowensis is restricted to approximately 275 km in a region that is undergoing rapid development. In the last 20 years many of the populations have been extirpated, and the species needs legal protection. Arctostaphylos rainbowensis Keeley & Massihi, es una especie nueva de "manzanita" que desarrolla nudos, y que est distribuda desde el noroeste del Condado de San Diego hasta los lmites del Condado de Riverside, en California. Esta especie ha sido referida como una poblacin disjunta de A. peninsularis que ocurre en Baja California, o como un hbrido entre A. glandulosa y A. glauca. Un anlisis componentes principio de 48 carcteres, revelaron que Arctostaphylos rainbowensis es distinta a los tres taxa anteriores. Lo se diferencia de A. peninsularis porque sus hojas son ms grandes, el nmero de estomas en la superficie abaxial es casi el doble que en la adaxial, raquis y ramificaciones pulverulento-glanduloso, brcteas florales ms cortas y separadas, con frutos ms grandes y de color prpura oscuro. Adems, Arctostaphylos rainbowensis se distingue de A. peninsularis en su distribucin ecolgica, ya que A. peninsularis es una especie que se distribuye en montaas por arriba de 1200 m, mientras que A. rainbowensis es tpica de bajas elevaciones cercanas a la costa. Se distingue de A. glandulosa en que es diploide, con un nmero cromosmico de 13; presenta adems hojas no escabrosas, brcteas florales reducidas y frutos grandes, globosos y duros (slidos). Arctostaphylos rainbowensis es separable de A. glauca por la presencia de nudos, brcteas florales no reflexas y frutos pequeos, glabros y no viscidos. Arctostaphylos rainbowensis esta restringido a una regin de aproximadamente 275 km en una regin sometida a un rpido desarrollo urbano. Se estima que en el futuro en un periodo de 20 aos, una fraccin de estas poblaciones sern eliminadas, por lo que estas especies tendrn que tener una proteccin legal.
41425339|Seed rain into sites undergoing primary succession on Mount St. Helens was measured from 1982 to 1986 and again from 1989 to 1990. Study sites were devastated in 1980 by pyroclastic flows of pumice, searing blasts, and lahars. Most sites were several km or more from seed sources. Seed rain density averaged 34 seeds 0.1 m yr in mid-elevation barren sites, 1083 seeds 0.1 m yr in mid-elevation vegetated sites and 2 seeds 0.1 m yr at subalpine barren sites. A total of 33 species was collected in traps. The relative abundance distributions of species were generally similar across years and sites. A few wind-dispersed species accounted for most of the seed rain: Anaphalis margaritacea (L.) Benth. & Hook., Epilobium angustifolium L., E. watsonii Barbey (E. ciliatum Raf.), Hieraciwn albiflorum Hook., and Hypochaeris radicata L. Seeds of trees and shrubs were virtually absent. The common species in the seed rain were also the most common species in the vegetation, although their absolute abundance is determined by environmental factors. Many uncommon species occurred in the vegetation that were not recorded in the seed rain. Two taxa common in the vegetation, Lupinus lepidus Douglas and Salix spp., were rare in the seed rain. For Salix, this is because seed dispersal occurred before traps were in place for the season. Lupinus lepidus is not wind dispersed and seeds are not likely to enter traps. We conclude that the seed rain on Mount St. Helens is apparently sufficient to initiate colonization but is depauperate in species. At present the vegetation generally reflects the incoming seed rain.
41424784|William Austin Cannon (1870-1958) was the first resident investigator at the Carnegie Institution of Washington's new Desert Laboratory in Tucson, AZ. He pioneered in the physiological ecology of desert plants and in the study of root systems, particularly the effects of oxygen and temperature on root growth. He also held a world-wide interest in desert ecosystems. Well-known during his lifetime, he has since been largely forgotten.
41425771|C photosynthesis without Kranz anatomy (single-cell C photosynthesis) occurs in only 0.003% of known species of C flowering plants. To add insight into the evolution of C photosynthesis, we studied the tribe Orcuttieae (Poaceae: Chloridoideae), which has species that can grow under both aquatic and terrestrial conditions, and utilize single-cell C photosynthesis when growing submerged. Carbon isotope ratios from aquatic, floating, and terrestrial leaves were in the range 12.25 to  14.31, suggesting that all species carry out C photosynthesis. Using light microscopy, we examined the anatomy of aquatic, floating and terrestrial leaves from eight of the nine species in the tribe to assess the pattern of evolution of C photosynthesis and Kranz anatomy among these vernal pool grasses. Kranz anatomy was present in all floating and terrestrial leaves of Orcuttia californica, O. inaequalis, O. pilosa, O. tenuis, O. viscida, Tuctoria greenei, T. mucronata, and Neostapfia colusans. Although carbon isotope data indicated C photosynthesis, aquatic leaves of all members of Orcuttia lacked Kranz anatomy, while aquatic leaves of Tuctoria and Neostapfia possessed Kranz anatomy. When considered in a phylogenetic context, these findings support previously proposed hypotheses suggesting that Orcuttieae are derived from a terrestrial ancestor and are now becoming more specialized to an aquatic environment.
41425598|Tree-ring data from Chamaecyparis lawsoniana (A. Murr.) Pari. (Port Orford cedar; Cupressaceae) were used to create a standardized chronology, assess the local, limiting factors on radial growth, and investigate the extent of a unique climatic event. We produced a 580-year tree-ring chronology (A.D. 1420 to 2000) from a large number of cedars (n = 1537) sampled in one 37 km area in the Siskiyou Mountains of southwestern Oregon and northern California. This chronology represents an area with few long-term climatic studies and a species with no dendrochronological data. We found radial growth to be positively correlated with year-round soil moisture conditions, specifically with cool, wet conditions in summer and warm, wet conditions in winter. The year 1739 stood out as a climatic pointer year with the smallest ring width index for the entire chronology and anatomically distinctive damage to the latewood of 1738 and earlywood of 1739. This pointer year was consistently identified across watersheds, topographic position (e.g., streamside, hillslope), and the range of the cedar, corresponding to an extreme, single-year drought occurring throughout the Pacific Northwest.
41425152|Romanzoffia thompsonii, a new species from Oregon is unique in the genus in its annual, bulbless habit, in having some lower leaves opposite, in always having some basal leaves entire and the distinct form of those that are lobed, and apparently in having throat spots or bands. This is also the smallest species of the genus in nearly every respect save seed size. Range and habitat, similarities to and differences from other members of this genus, and how this species modifies the concept of the genus are detailed.
41424752|Variation in effect of approximately 50% Quercus douglasii (blue oak) cover on herbaceous understory biomass and composition was studied along a rainfall gradient between five sites. Biomass and composition were compared between understory and adjacent open grassland at each site to evaluate changes in canopy effect along the gradient. Biomass was measured at the time of greatest standing biomass (PEAK) in 1986 and 1987. Composition was measured at PEAK 1986. Annual rainfall was above average in 19851986, and below average in 19861987. In both years PEAK biomass was greater in grassland than understory at sites with > 50 cm yr average rainfall, and no difference was apparent at sites with < 50 cm yr rainfall. Variation in species composition between grassland and understory was independent of rainfall gradient. Differences in individual species presence and abundance between grassland and understory were found at all sites. We conclude that variation in canopy effect on biomass resulted from changes in relative production between understory and open grassland, not from differences in relative composition.
41425178|Dudleya gnoma is endemic to a single California island. It appears most similar to a Channel Islands endemic, D. greenei, and the more widespread D. caespitosa. It differs from D. greenei and D. caespitosa chiefly by its smaller size, smaller rosettes, shorter leaves, narrower peduncles, shorter and less-branched inflorescences, earlier flowering season, and habitat. Glaucous forms of D. candelabrum Rose have now been found on two of the northern Channel Islands, but that species is not easily confused with D. gnoma. Dudleya gnoma is placed in subg. Dudleya based on its evergreen leaves with broad bases, broad rather than terete leaves, and erect or fairly erect petals.
41424886|Fennel (Foeniculum vulgare Mill.) was introduced to Santa Cruz Island in the 1850's, and is now present in 7.8% of the island grassland community. This study's goal was to determine the success of fennel invasion into chaparral and coastal sage communities bounding grassland infested by fennel, and whether fennel occurrence varied with physiognomic or disturbance parameters. Vegetation was sampled using line transects placed perpendicular to grassland/shrubland boundaries, in sites stratified by shrub community type, topographic position, and aspect. Results indicated that coastal sage was more susceptible than chaparral to invasion by fennel. Fennel cover in chaparral correlated positively with fennel cover in adjacent grassland, although fennel did not occur in chaparral past an average of 2-3 m. Where vegetation boundaries were most distinct, fennel was negatively correlated with shrub cover. Disturbance related to fennel occurrence only in grassland areas, and did not correspond to fennel invasion in shrub communities. With recent removal of grazers from the island, fennel expansion and natural vegetation recovery from grazing may be integrally related.
41426126|Quantitative study of two superficially similar stands of Joshua tree woodland showed much variation. One stand included Joshua trees and junipers in the tree layer. The other stand also included pin pine and desert scrub oak and had a different order of shrub importance values. Both stands contained shrubs characteristic of other plant associations. A list is presented of the annuals and biennials in flower in May, 1978.
41425478|Prunus eremophila (subgenus Emplectocladus Torr.) is described and illustrated from the southern Mojave Desert. It is closely related to P. havardii (W. Wight) S. C. Mason but differs from it in pubescence of leaves and larger size of floral parts and fruit.
41424668|Como resultado de la revisin del gnero Commelina, efectuada para el volumen III de la Flora Fanerogmica del Valle de Mxico, se reconoce la existencia de 7 especies, de las cuales 4 (C. coelestis Willd., C. dianthifolia DC, C. diffusa Burm. f.y C. erecta L.) se aceptan en la circunscripcin y nomenclatura usualmente empleadas.En cuanto a las 3 restantes: el nombre C. orchioides Booth ex Lindl. substituye por prioridad a C. alpestris Standl. & Steyerm.; el de C. pallida Willd. es necesario restituir para las plantas de la regin generalmente identificadas como C. texcocana Matuda y Phaeosphaerion leiocarpum (Benth.) Hassk.; el de C. tuberosa L., en cambio, se aplica a las determinadas como C. coelestis var. bourgeaui Clarke. In the treatment of the genus Commelina for the "Flora Fanerogmica del Valle de Mxico" seven species are recognized, four of which (C coelestis Willd., C. dianthifolia DC., C. diffusa Burm. f. and C. erecta L.) are accepted in their usual circumscription and nomenclature. As to the remaining three: the name C. orchioides Booth ex Lindl., for reasons of priority, replaces C. alpestris Standl. & Steyerm.; the name C. pallida Willd. is rescued for local plants usually identified as C. texcocana Matuda and Phaeosphaerion leiocarpum (Benth.) Hassk.; and the name C. tuberosa L. applies to those determined as C. coelestis var. bourgeaui Clarke.
41424792|Vegetation structure, floristic composition, and several topographic and edaphic factors were measured in eighty old-growth coastal redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) stands in the Little Lost Man Creek Research Natural Area, Redwood National Park, CA. Multivariate classification techniques were used to classify the sample stands and characterize the forest associations in terms of structure and composition. The associations formed a toposequence presumably related to microclimatic, edaphic, and disturbance gradients in the natural area. Three associations were defined: the Sequoia sempervirens/Blechnum spicant association at lower elevations on concave lower slopes; the Sequoia sempervirens/Arbutus menziesii association at higher elevations on convex upper slopes and ridgetops; and the Sequoia sempervirens/Mahonia nervosa association at intermediate positions along the toposequence. Ecological relationships in the study area and throughout the coastal redwood forest are viewed in the context of a gap-association-watershed-region hierarchy. Vegetation pattern and process in the redwood region show a certain symmetry across scale characteristic of scaling fractals.
41424194|Two species of tuberous lomatiums are described. Lomatium quintuplex is found only on Umtanum Ridge, between Ellensburg and Yakima, Washington. Lomatium stebbinsii is restricted to the west slope of the Sierra Nevada in Tuolumne and Calaveras counties, California. Neither species is closely related to other tuberous lomatiums.
41425208|A taxonomy based primarily on phenetic evidence is proposed for the annual taxa of Malacothrix DC. endemic to the California Islands, California. Field studies, herbarium collections, and growth chamber progenies provided information about chromosome numbers, breeding systems, the presence or absence of isolating mechanisms between taxa, comparative morphology, and distributions. New taxa described are Malacothrix foliosa ssp. crispifolia (2n=14), M. f. ssp. philbrickii (2n=14), M. f. ssp. polycephala (2n=14), and M. junakii (2n=28). Kept at the species level are M. indecora (2n=14), M. insularis (2n=unknown), and M. squalida (2n=28). Also discussed are possible relationships between the insular endemics and Malacothrix coulteri (2n=14) and M. incana (2n=14), two species that occur both on the California Islands and on the mainland.
41426306|An increasingly dogmatic paradigm maintains that central California's pre-agricultural grasslands were once entirely dominated by the bunchgrass Nassella pulchra. Evidence from early records and current relict vegetation, however, indicates they were spatially diverse. In moderate precipitation areas Nassella pulchra frequently dominated grasslands in foothills and occasionally also on sandy valley floors/but grassland on heavier soils in valleys and on many hillslopes was dominated by the rhizomatous graminoids Leymus triticoides, Carex barbarae, and C. praegracilis. Dominance shifted to spring-active annual forbs in low precipitation areas and probably to summer-active annual forbs (tarweeds) on infertile old terrace soils.
41425498|One hundred ninety species and one variety of moss are documented in Santa Cruz County, California representing 32% of the California moss flora. Several aquatic species expected to be found are absent. Fourteen species are new records for the central coast of California. One hundred five species are reported in Santa Cruz County for the first time. Two species, Fissidens taylorii C. Mll, and Archidium alternifolium (Hedw.) Schimp. are reported new for California.
41424702|Measurements of the cover and frequency of EFN-bearing plants in seven warm desert communities in California revealed some of the highest levels of abundance of EFN-bearing plants that have been recorded for the temperate zone. The desert wash communities of both deserts had the highest covers (28 and 24%) and frequencies (0.27, 0.27) of EFN-bearing plants, whereas the sand dune communities had the lowest levels of abundance of EFN-bearing plants with covers of 2 and 0.0% and frequencies of 0.01 and 0.0. Colorado Desert communities had higher covers, frequencies, and numbers of EFN-bearing plants than Mojave Desert communities. The EFN antiherbivore defense system is predicted to be also common in other warm-dry communities of the world because those environments have an abundance of ants and plant groups, such as mimosoid legumes and cacti, known to have many EFN-bearing species. The EFN defense system may be particularly well suited to plants growing in warm-dry zones.
41425491|Seven native and one naturalized species of Salix (Salicaceae) were grown from cuttings in a solar greenhouse to determine the effect of direct sun exposure and shading on leaf glaucescence. All species grown exposed to the sun (except one non-rooting species that died) developed their normal leaf glaucescence. Three of the species that were shaded from the sun developed leaf glaucescence but much less intense than that of the sun exposed plants. The remaining three rooting species of shaded plants did not develop their normal leaf glaucescence until after they were placed in the sun. The shade-produced leaves of one species did not develop glaucescence even after sun exposure although the new leaves that were exposed to the sun did develop glaucescence. Results suggest that leaf glaucescence in Salix is only partly genetically controlled and can be modified by environmental factors. Implications of using leaf glaucescence as a taxonomic characteristic are discussed.
41431658|A newly described local endemic species, Arctostaphylos ohloneana M. C. Vasey and V. T. Parker, is found scattered within populations of another geographically restricted manzanita species, Arctostaphylos glutinosa Schreiber, from the "Lockheed Chalks" area on siliceous shale ridges, northern Ben Lomond Mountain, western Santa Cruz County. This species is found in at least four scattered occurrences within the distribution of A. glutinosa on private property owned by the Lockeed Martin Corporation at the end of Empire Grade Road. Arctostaphylos ohloneana superficially resembles A. pungens and A. manzanita, but it presents distinctive characters that separate it from these two species. Unlike the tetraploid A. manzanita, A. ohloneana is diploid, and it lacks the distinctive nascent inflorescence of A. pungens. Since neither A. pungens nor A. manzanita occurs in the Santa Cruz Mountains, A. ohloneana is all the more remarkable by virtue of its distinctiveness compared to other nearby species.
41425360|Carex viridula Michaux subsp. viridula van viridula (Cyperaceae), the green sedge, occurs in wetland habitats distributed throughout northern and central North America. Its distribution also extends to the southern Rocky Mountain region in several disjunct sites, including alpine wetlands in Colorado, where it is rare. Populations of C. viridula from Colorado were investigated using starch gel electrophoresis of soluble enzymatic proteins coupled with substrate specific staining in order to describe genetic diversity and structure. The objective was to determine if Colorado populations exhibited the reduced genetic diversity expected of marginal populations when compared to other populations from North America and Europe. Genotypic data were collected for 15 enzyme systems encoded by 21 putative loci in 350 individuals from seven populations in Colorado and in 179 individuals from eight populations from elsewhere throughout the range in North America. Data from all North American populations were compared with data previously reported from European populations of this species by Bruederle and Jensen (1991). No variation, either within or among North American populations, was detected at any of the loci. However, North American populations were genetically differentiated from European populations, with significantly more diversity maintained by European populations. The surprising lack of genetic diversity in North American populations is probably the combined result of high levels of selfing and inbreeding, restricted ecological amplitude, and genetic drift. Genetic bottlenecks are presumed to have occurred as a result of climate changes associated with Pleistocene glaciation or founding events associated with colonization of North America by proposed ancestral European populations.
41424949|Danthonia annableae from Bolivia is described and illustrated. The new species is distinguished by possessing lemmas with acute or obtuse lateral lobes that are not prolonged into seta, few-flowered panicles with one or occasionally two spikelets, and the presence of cleistogamous and chasmogamous florets in the aerial spikelets. A tabular comparison with D. chilensis and D. cirrata is given. Danthonia annableae de Bolivia, se describe e ilustra. La nueva especie se distingue por poseer lemmas con lbulos laterales agudo u obtusos, no prolongados en setas, panojas pauciespiculadas con una o dos espiguillas, y la presencia de flores cleistgamas y casmogamas en espiguillas areas. Se presenta una tabla comparativa con D. chilensis y D. cirrata.
41424560|Torrey Lake Mire is typical of many small isolated wetlands in the predominantly forested central Oregon Cascade Range. Four mire communities, identified by floristic similarity analysis, exhibit distinct zonation with respect to a complex moisture gradient observed in the field and shown by detrended correspondence analysis ordination. In order of increasing moisture and soil saturation they are: Kalmia microphylla/Sphagnum Bog, Vaccinium occidentale/Trifolium longipes Thicket, Carex sitchensis Fen, and Carex rostrata Reedswamp. Montane mires are often regarded as having higher species diversity than surrounding forest because mire communities are packed into small areas in response to a fairly sharp environmental gradient. Forest communities, occupying more uniform environments, extend over broad areas. Because of a sharp hydrological gradient, Torrey Lake Mire embraces several closely packed plant communities. Based on the jackknife procedure, individual mire communities are shown to have similar species diversity to that of the surrounding Tsuga mertensiana forest community.
41425436|The name Yucca whipplei dates from 1861, not 1859. The names Hesperoyucca, Hesperoyucca whipplei, and Hesperoyucca whipplei var. graminifolia date from 1893.
41425180|The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of NaCl on growth of Grindelia accessions from coastal and inland habitats. Gas exchange, biomass and resin production, and cation accumulation were studied for two accessions of Grindelia stricta from coastal estuaries, one accession of G. camporum from the northern part of the Central Valley, and one accession of G. camporum from the South Coast Ranges. A greenhouse experiment was conducted in which these accessions were grown for 140 days in sand culture at 5, 125, 250, and 550 mM (~ sea water) NaCl. No major differences in salt tolerance were found between coastal and inland accessions both species used in this study were found to be miohalophytes. Survival at 550 mM was 10% or lower for three of the four accessions. Gas exchange (net CO 2 uptake and transpiration) was reduced at salinities above 125 mM, and biomass production was significantly affected by salinity. However, we observed moderate growth rates at salinities up to 250 mM. We also noted a trend toward increased surface resin with increased salinity, but more experiments are needed to thoroughly evaluate this response. Grindelia is a potential crop plant which is tolerant to high salinity but our results indicate that biomass production would be significantly reduced if Grindelia were cultivated in saline soils. Se evalu el efecto del NaCl sobre el crecimiento de cuatro entradas de Grindelia de ambientes costeros Y mediterrneos. Se estudi el intercambio de gases, la produccin de biomasa y resina, y la acumulacin de cationes para dos entradas de Grindelia stricta provenientes de estuarios costeros, una entrada de G. camporum de la parte norte del Central Valley, y una entrada de G. camporum del South Coast Ranges. Se realiz un ensayo de invernculo en el que se cultivaron estas entradas por 140 das en un medio de arena con 5, 125, 250, y 550 mM NaCl. No se encontraron diferencias significativas en cuanto a tolerancia a la salinidad entre entradas de la costa y tierra adentro ambas especies usadas en este estudio podran ser consideradas miohalfitas. Se observo supervivencia de 10% o menos en tres de las cuatro entradas a 550 mM NaCl. El intercambio de gases (absorcin neta de CO 2 y transpiracin) se redujo a niveles de salinidad superiores a 125 mM y la salinidad afect significativamente la produccin de biomasa. Sin embargo observamos un crecimiento moderado a salinidades de hasta 250 mM. Tambin observamos una tendencia a aumento de la resina superficial al aumentar la salinidad, aunque se necesitan ms experimentos para evaluar en profundidad esta respuesta. Grindelia es un cultivo potencial que es tolerante de altos niveles de salinidad, pero nuestros. resultados indican que la produccin de biomasa de Grindelia podra reducirse significativamente si se la cultiva en suelos salinos.
43289034|Polemonium eddyense Stubbs, sp. nov. (Polemoniaceae) is a localized endemic from Mt. Eddy in the Klamath Ranges of northern California. The new species resembles P. chartaceum H. Mason from the White and Sweetwater mountains. It is distinct from P. chartaceum in having round, rather than acuminate calyx lobes, heavier seeds, longer styles, and greater stigma exsertion. Polemonium pulcherrimum Hooker var. shastense (Eastw.) Stubbs, is a new combination from Mt. Shasta and Mt. Lassen. It differs from other varieties of P. pulcherrimum in corolla color, as well as geography, elevation, stature, and pubescence.
41425776|Two new roses are described from California and adjacent Oregon, with keys to distinguish each from the typical representative of their respective species. Rosa pisocarpa A. Gray subsp. ahartii Ertter & W. H. Lewis differs from typical R. pisocarpa by generally having fewer and larger leaflets, fewer flowers, and sepals that are most commonly eglandular, among other features. It is the characteristic member of the R. blanda Aiton complex in the northern Sierra Nevada and southern Cascade Range, where existing collections have been variously identified as R. pisocarpa, R. woodsii Lindi, subsp. ultramontana (S. Watson) Roy L. Taylor & MacBryde, R. californica Cham. & Schltdl., and R. bridgesii Crpin ex Rydb. The rank of subspecies is used to indicate a significant ecogeographic component of the species' range. In contrast, varietal rank is used for a localized expression of R. gymnocarpa Nutt. occurring on open ultramafic substrates in northwestern California and adjacent Oregon, described here as Rosa gymnocarpa var. serpentina Ertter & W. H. Lewis. Diagnostic characters include relatively short stature, fewer and blunter leaflets, and pedicels that are frequently eglandular.
43289029|We assessed the vulnerability to climate change of 156 rare plant species. The species were selected from the 1625 rare species in California to comprise eight rarity types, classified according to range size, population size, and habitat specificity. For each of the 156 species, we first assigned a climate change vulnerability score using life history attributes and species distribution models, as specified by the Climate Change Vulnerability Index (CCVI) of NatureServe. The resulting CCVI scores were extremely vulnerable (n = 2), highly vulnerable (n = 40), moderately vulnerable (n = 57), presumed stable (n = 32), increase likely (n = 16), and insufficient evidence (n = 9). Pipera yadonii Rand, Morgan & Ackerman and Mimulus purpureus A. L. Grant were the species scored as extremely vulnerable. There was no correlation of the CCVI scores with rarity type, suggesting that climate change vulnerability cannot be inferred by simple categorizations based on geographic range and habitat preference. Second, we conducted a follow-up species distribution model sensitivity analysis that showed that the modeling results were highly dependent upon both model algorithm and choice of predictor variables. However, 60 of the 156 species were predicted to have declines in climatic suitability, regardless of modeling technique. Third, as an independent assessment of vulnerability, we calculated the topographic complexity around known occurrences of each species. Species in topographically dissected landscapes may be less vulnerable to climate change because they can find suitable climates locally as climate changes. We found that topographic complexity varied substantially, even within a single CCVI score level, and therefore provides unique information on vulnerability. Our results can be used to guide monitoring, management, and conservation plans for rare plant species.
41426223|Stipa lemmonii (Vasey) Scribner is sometimes treated as comprising three varieties: var. jemmonii, var. jonesii, and var. pubescens. Morphological and distributional data obtained from over 300 specimens representing the geographic range of the species do not support recognition of these infraspecific taxa. The known range of the species is extended to include Nevada and Utah.
41424418|Precipitation, runoff, and drainage supplied about l.5 metric tons of NH-N, 4.1 metric tons of NO-N, and 0.09 metric tons of PO-P to Eagle Lake in 1976. Shoots of Typha glauca, Carex atherodes, Sparganium eurycarpum, and Scirpus validus had accumulated 18.0 metric tons of N and 1.8 metric tons of P at peak standing crop in late July. During decomposition, shoots of all four species lost organic matter faster than P, and lost P faster than N. Carex, Typha, and Scirpus litter were more effective in retaining or accumulating N and P than was Sparganium litter.
41425305|Metal hyperaccumulator plants can be defended from herbivore/pathogen attack by elevated tissue metal contents. We encountered the parasite Cuscuta californica Hook. & Arn. growing on a Ni hyperaccumulator {Streptanthus polygaloides A. Gray) and investigated this host/parasite relationship. Elemental levels in plant samples, and the Ni level in soil samples, were measured for two hosts: S. polygaloides and the nonhyperaccumulator Lessingia nemaclada E. Greene. Levels of 12 elements in parasitized and nonparasitized hosts, and corresponding C. californica samples, differed only for S. polygaloides, where significant differences were detected for six elements. Parasitized and nonparasitized S. polygaloides had similar amounts of Ni, K, P, Co and Pb, but parasitized plants had higher Ca than nonparasitized ones.Cuscuta californica had higher  and P, and lower Ni, Co and Pb than host S. polygaloides. Cuscuta californica parasitizing S. polygaloides contained 800 g Ni/g, whereas that from L. nemaclada contained only 11 g Ni/g. We concluded that hyperaccumulated Ni did not prevent attack of S. polygaloides by C. californica. We also tested the hypothesis that high-Ni C. californica was defended from generalist insect folivores. High-and low-Ni C. californica fed to neonate Spodoptera exigua larvae affected neither larval survival nor larval mass. We concluded that the elevated Ni content of C. californica parasitizing S. polygaloides did not benefit C. californica by defending it from a generalist herbivore.
41424549|Documentation is provided for the occurrence of 76 species of flowering plants not reported previously from San Luis Obispo County, California. Recent collections confirm the presence of three additional species that were reported from San Luis Obispo County but not included in The Vascular Plants of San Luis Obispo County, California (Hoover 1970). Of the addenda to the county's flora, 21 are native to California and 58 are introduced. The additions include members of 32 families, four of which were not represented previously in the county's flora: Basellaceae, Haloragaceae, Molluginaceae, and Hydrocharitaceae.
41425813|Streptanthus oblanceolatus T. W. Nelson and J. P. Nelson is here described and illustrated. It is endemic to steep meta volcanic bluffs along the gorge of the Trinity River above its confluence with the New River, where three voucher specimens have been obtained.
41424626|A new species of Claytonia (Portulacaceae) is described from the Sierra Nevada of California. Morphology, chromosome number, and distribution indicate a close relationship with C. sibirica.
41424611|Twenty-two additional species of Myxomyctes are reported from California. Nine of these, Comatricha ellae, C. longipila, C. penicillata, Didymium bahiense, D. verrucosporum, Licea lucens, Macbrideola argentea, Paradiacheopsis cribrata and P.microcarpa, appear to be new records for the United States.
41424724|Macromeria alba is described from Gomez Farias area in the Sierra Guatemala of west-central Tamaulipas. It is most closely related to M. notata from the high mountains of Coahuila and Nuevo Len to the north. Se describe Macromeria alba de la regin de Gomez Farias en la Sierra Guatemala en la oeste-central de Tamaulipas. La especie nueva parece tener afinidades estrechas con M. notata, la cual se encuentra en las montaas altas del norte de Coahuila y Nuevo Len.
41425058|Botany in California has already gone through several faces, and is changing still. The first face was the folk knowledge held by the original inhabitants, largely obliterated during subsequent periods. The first century of European exploration resulted in specimens being deposited in European herbaria, clearinghouses for Linnaeus and subsequent experts. This shifted in the mid-nineteenth century, when the United States annexed the western half of the continent. Specimens collected as part of armyassisted territorial and state surveys now flowed to Torrey and Gray in the eastern United States. By the turn of the century, however, resident botanists in California began to resist Eastern hegemony and to establish their own networks of collaborators. The continued inclusion of numerous amateurs in these networks helped to counter the growing tide of professionalization that was otherwise changing the Face of Academic Botany. Instead, "professional" and "academic" are no longer synonymous, such that there are now more botanists employed by government agencies than by academic institutions in California, primarily because of the increased interest in endangered species. The latest face of California Botany is therefore that of a developing partnership between academic botanists, non-academic professionals, and native plant enthusiasts.
41425546|Monotropa hypopithys is a non-photosynthetic myco-heterotrophic herb. Early-season forms tend to be wholly yellow and late-season forms often exhibit red pigmentation. Color variation often has been used to distinguish taxonomic segregates, and it has been proposed that yellow forms are genetically distinct from red forms. However, evidence from 26S large ribosomal subunit rRNA gene sequences suggests that red and yellow forms have not evolved along separate lines of descent.
41425904|Edaphic-endemic plant taxa are often interpreted as recently derived entities that evolved in situ, with genetic divergence driven by substrate specialization. However, little is known about the evolution of specific edaphic-endemic taxa, particularly the role that soil conditions may play in their initial divergence and continued persistence. Our study focuses on Ceanothus roderickii, a strict specialist on soils derived from a single outcrop of the geological material gabbro located in southwestern El Dorado County, California. In order to elucidate the evolutionary history of C. roderickii we sequenced the third intron of the low-copy nuclear gene nitrate reductase (NIA) for individuals representing four populations of C. roderickii and a wide taxonomic and geographic sampling of closely related plants, including 37 populations of Ceanothus cuneatus and a single representative from 16 other taxa. Analysis of NIA shows that C. roderickii is closely related to C. cuneatus var. cuneatus, a widely distributed taxon found on a diversity of soils. Ceanothus cuneatus var. cuneatus is paraphyletic and comprises two major geographic groups, one coastal and one interior, the latter containing C roderickii. Thirteen soil chemistry variables were assayed in 42 populations of C. cuneatus representing the wide geographic range of this species, and in 10 populations of C. roderickii. Analysis of these data indicates that evolution of C. roderickii was associated with specialization to nutrient-deficient forms of gabbro-derived soil. Soil chemistry associations of C. cuneatus var. cuneatus and C. roderickii are most divergent where the species come into close contact on gabbro, with C. cuneatus var. cuneatus occupying comparatively nutrient-rich forms of gabbro-derived soils, a result that is consistent with reinforcement.
41425362|Genetic diversity of Pinus ponderosa Laws., Purshia tridentata (Pursh) DC, and Festuca idahoensis Elmer at Black's Mountain Experimental Forest in northwest California was evaluated using isozymes. This tree, shrub, and grass are all common, outcrossing, long-lived perennials that dominate their respective layers of the same plant community. Genetic analyses were provided for diploid Pinus ponderosa and Purshia tridentata. A phenotypic analysis of isozyme band patterns was provided for tetraploid F. idahoensis and, for comparison, previous reports of fescue isozyme variation were reanalyzed using this method. Pinus ponderosa, Purshia tridentata, and Festuca idahoensis were highly genetically variable, with 75% to 92% polymorphic loci. For all three species, more than 90% of the genetic variation occurred within, rather than among, populations.
41425238|The purpose of this study was to 1) demographically monitor the only remaining natural population of the rare serpentinite annual plant Acanthomintha duttonii (Lamiaceae); 2) attempt to reintroduce a new, experimental population within historic range; and 3) evaluate the new population by comparing its demographic characteristics with those of the natural population. The natural population of A. duttonii at Edgewood Park significantly and progressively increased in abundance and density between 1990 and 1994, then began a decline that lasted through 1997. In general, high density and high yield (reproductive plants produced from previous year's nutlet production) were associated with average or below-average years of precipitation while low densities and yields were associated with above-average rainfall years. During the entire study period, survivorship to reproduction remained fairly high and consistent, indicating that population trends were due to variations in nutlet production and the influence of cryptic factors that operate in the seed bank. The experimental population at Pulgas Ridge differed in several critical respects from the natural population, including low germination, low and variable survivorship, low nutlet production and perhaps high nutlet mortality. These features reduced the potential for self-sustained growth in the experimental population, which is likely to be extirpated within the next few years. This failure to produce a self-sustaining population of A. duttonii emphasizes the urgent need for in situ preservation of self-sustaining natural populations of serpentinite species.
41425699|We describe a cycadeoid trunk from the Aptian Chickabally Member, Budden Canyon Formation in Ono, California. Our diagnosis of the specimen as a cycadeoid was initially based on the presence of mucilage canals in the pith and the structure of the secondary xylem. This determination was subsequently supported by recognition of the distinctive morphology of the surface of the primary body of eroded cycadeoid trunks. The latter may aid in the identification of otherwise enigmatic Mesozoic fossils. This specimen is the third cycadeoid to be reported from northern California and slightly extends the known geographic range of the group within the state.
41425917|The Mason Valley cholla, Cylindropuntia X fosbergii (C.B Wolf) Rebman, M. A. Baker & Pinkava, is the putative hybrid of C. bigelovii (Engelm.) F. M. Knuth and some other species of Cylindropuntia. We used AFLPs to screen chollas of the Anza-Borrego Desert in southern California to test this hypothesis of hybrid origin and identify the parental species involved. Other species scrutinized as potential parents include C. echinocarpa (Engelm. & J. M. Bigelow) F. M. Knuth,C. ganderi (C. B.Wolf) Rebman & Pinkava, C. californica var. parkeri (J. M. Coulter) Pinkava, and C. Wolfii (L. D.Benson) M. A. Baker. Patterns of band sharing clearly testify to the close relationship between C. X fosbergii and C. bigelovii. None of the other species screened came close to thet level of similarity. Moreover, the numbers of total loci and unique loci in C. Xfosbergii do not meet the expectations of a hybrid taxon. We propose the alternative hypothesis that C. xfosbergii is the sister species of C. bigelovii.
41426317|Insect herbivory can greatly decrease plant reproductive success. This experiment reduced insect herbivore damage to branches of the federally endangered Pine Hill flannel bush (Fremontodendron californicum subsp. decumbens) during two flowering seasons to explore interactions among factors that can limit reproductive output (e.g., resource limitation, pollen limitation, seed predation). Experimental treatments included insecticide and control (water spray) treatments in 1983, with these and an insecticide plus exclosure treatment in 1984. Exclosures were designed to decrease herbivory of fruits by rodents. Reproductive stages (flower buds, flowers, and fruits) were counted and examined periodically for damage, and mature fruits were collected and seeds counted. In both years, insecticide treatment greatly decreased insect herbivory, increasing survival of flower buds, flowers, and fruits so that seed production increased 14-to 27-fold. Pollination success was unaffected by treatments, but fruit abortion increased significantly on insecticide-treated branches. Rodent herbivory of fruits greatly impacted fruit production on insecticide-treated branches in 1983, an El Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) year, but was relatively unimportant in 1984 (a non-ENSO year). I concluded that: 1) seed output is limited by insect herbivores and can be greatly increased by insecticide treatment; 2) other limiting factors (resource limitation, rodent herbivory) increase in importance and partially compensate for increased fruit survival when insect herbivory is lessened by insecticide treatment; and 3) rodent fruit herbivory may be influenced by climate, being greater during years characterized by an ENSO event.
41426320|In the modern analog technique (MAT), climate characteristics associated with the vegetation producing modern reference pollen assemblages are used to reconstruct the paleoclimates that occurred in association with vegetation producing similar (i. e., analogous) fossil pollen assemblages, based on the assumption that similarity of vegetation implies similarity of climate and other ecological characteristics. Quantitative reconstruction of paleoclimate using the MAT requires attribution of climate values at the modern reference pollen sites. In this paper, climate assignments for temperature and precipitation are determined for forty-one modern reference pollen sites in the southern California cismontane region. Six temperature lapse rates and eleven linear and non-linear equations fitted to precipitation-elevation relationships are used, based on instrumental data from available reporting stations in the region. The climate assignments match well with existing, less spatially-explicit, regional climate analyses and show ability to capture relatively small-scale variations of the region's climate patterns. The quality of the MAT when employed with the combined surface sample/climate data set is examined by reconstructing the modern climate and elevation at the surface sample sites. The general results of this validation analysis show that highly accurate, relatively precise temperature and apparent elevation reconstructions are achievable, while accurate, but somewhat less precise reconstructions of precipitation can typically be expected. When analog selection is largely confined to samples from montane conifer-dominated forests, high quality reconstructions of all the climate and elevation variables can be achieved.
41424513|New chromosome counts are reported for Cercocarpus montanus Raf. var. montanus and C. ledifolius Nutt. (2 varieties), x = n = 9; Chamaebatia australis (Brandg.) Abrams and C. foliolosa Benth., x = n = 9; Chamaebatiaria millifolium (Torr.) Maxim., x = n = 9; Coleogyne ramosissima Torr., x = n = 8; Holodiscus dumosus (Nutt.) Heller, 2x = n = 18; Kelseya uniflora (Wats.) Rydb., x = n = 18; Peraphyllum ramosissimum Nutt., x = n = 17; and Petrophytum caespitosum (Nutt.) Rydb., x = n = 18. The counts are related to rosaceous subfamilial taxonomy. All taxa are relatively narrowly (geographically or ecotypically) distributed endemics. Cercocarpus and Holodiscus are the most wide ranging taxa.
41425548|Diversified germination behavior has been well documented for winter annuals in the Sonoran Desert but has been reported for few woody plants in the region. Despite a long-held assumption that seeds of the leguminous tree Parkinsonia microphylla (foothill paloverde) are impermeable to water until scarified by natural abrasion, a variable proportion can germinate shortly after dispersal without scarification. Seed crops thus comprise nondormant as well as dormant seeds and exhibit diversified germination behavior. Under controlled conditions (25C), germination of unscarified seed averaged 32%. Under natural rainfall regimes, germination of unscarified seed ranged from 4% to 49%. Laboratory experiments suggest that permeability of fresh seed is highest under warm temperatures and no more than a single cycle of wetting and drying. Diversified germination behavior has profound implications for population dynamics. In the case of P. microphylla, the mixture of dormant and nondormant seeds promotes multiple pulses of germination each summer and ensures coordination between cohort size and soil moisture levels. Diversificacin en comportamiento de germinacin ha sido bien documentado para anuales invernales pero poco para plantas leosas del Desierto Sonorense. A pesar de la suposicin que las semillas de Parkinsonia microphylla son impermeables antes de ser escarificadas, una proporcin variable de semillas pueden germinar sin escarificacin siguiente a dispersin. Por lo tanto la produccin anual de semillas incluye semillas aletargadas y no aletargadas cuales manifestan diversificacin en comportamiento de germinacin. Bajo condiciones controladas, un promedio de 32% de las semillas se germinaron a 25C. Con un rgimen natural de lluvia, se germinaron entre 4% y 48% de las semillas no escarificadas. Experimentos indican que la permeabilidad de semillas nuevas es mas alta con temperaturas clidas y no mas que un ciclo de humedad y sequa. Diversificacin en el comportamiento de germinacin tiene consecuencias profundas para la dinmica de poblaciones. En el caso de P. microphylla la mezcla de semillas aletargadas y no aletargadas promueve mltiple pulsos de germinacin cada verano y asegura la coordinacin entre el tamao del cohorte de semillas y el nivel de la humedad del suelo.
41425774|The dwarf mistletoes (Arceuthobium spp., Viscaceae) are an ecologically and economically important group of hemi-parasitic flowering plants that parasitize members of the Pinaceae in both the Old and New Worlds. There are two areas of maximum diversity for the dwarf mistletoes: northern California and Durango, Mexico. Here we provide additional information on the distribution of dwarf mistletoes in Durango based on field observations and herbarium collections. This information supplements data provided in a monograph on Arceuthobium published in 1996. Needed research on the dwarf mistletoes in Durango is also discussed. Los murdagos enanos (Arceuthobium spp., Viscaceae) son un grupo de plantas hemiparsitas ecolgica y econmicamente importantes que parasitan a miembros de la familia Pinaceae, tanto en el Viejo como en el Nuevo Mundo. Existen dos reas de mxima diversidad para los murdagos enanos: el norte de California y Durango, Mxico. En este trabajo se provee de informacin adicional sobre los murdagos enanos en Durango con base en observaciones de campo y datos de material de herbario. Esta informacin complementa los datos presentados en una monografa sobre Arceuthobium publicada en 1996. Se discute tambin la necesidad de ms investigacin sobre los murdagos enanos en Durango.
41426183|Pollen analysis indicates major vegetational changes near Wildcat Lake, Point Reyes National Seashore, California, in the last millennium. Changes in the relative proportions of grass and shrub pollen both before and after colonization imply that the proportions of grassland and scrub vegetation were not constant even before European colonization. Near the top of the sediment core the ratio of grass to shrub pollen increases. The simultaneous appearance of pollen of introduced plant species allows this level of the diagram to be dated historically at about 1850 A.D. Thus this increase in grasses may be correlated with increased grazing. A shift from abundant Alnus pollen to Myrica and Salix near the bottom of the core is interpreted as the result of a landslide that changed local drainage.
41425112|Carex hirtissima is a perennial sedge endemic to montane forests in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada and the Coast Ranges in central California. In a study of four natural populations and all known herbarium specimens from 63 herbaria, I investigated patterns of variation in allozymes, structural features and chromosome numbers. Seventeen putative enzyme-coding loci were assayed and five were found to be polymorphic. Deviations from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium and high positive fixation indices suggested that inbreeding is the dominant mating system. Cluster analysis of genetic distances calculated among populations showed that populations of C. hirtissima are quite similar and that this species is probably more closely related to C. gynodynama than to C. mendocinensis, two other species endemic to the California Floristic Province. Chromosome numbers were determined for C. hirtissima for the first time in this study and found to be n = 35 in one population and n - 36 in another. A new glabrous morph of C. hirtissima was found in one population, but both glabrous and pubescent morphs had the same chromosome number and similar allozyme frequencies.
41426215|The Sweetwater Mountains of Mono County, California, lie along the transition between Sierra Nevada and Great Basin floras. The alpine zone of the range, defined as the area above that dominated by shrubby Artemisia species of the section Tridentae, is 16 km . The zone includes persistent snowdrifts and streams, some frost-sorted soils, and four rock substrates: rhyolite, andesite, granite, and quartz monzonite. The alpine flora includes 173 species of vascular plants. Many taxa show considerable preference for a single substrate. Ninety-four percent of the Sweetwater alpine taxa are also found in the Sierra Nevada, 75% in the Great Basin, 52% in the southern Rocky Mountains, and 18% in the Arctic. A comparison of alpine floristics of four ranges along the western perimenter of the Great Basin (the Sweetwater, Wassuk, White, and Spring Mountains) indicates that the Sweetwater and Wassuk alpine zones are relatively less isolated than the other islands. The unusually large flora of the Sweetwaters may be related to the range's accessibility to both Great Basin and Sierra Nevada floras and to the presence of appropriate microsites for both Great Basin xerophytes and Sierran mesophytes.
41425463|We investigated genetic diversity and taxonomic status within Calamagrostis breweri Thurber s.l., a rare alpine grass species comprising two allopatric races apparently differing in chromosome number. We analyzed isozymes and morphology of both races. The two races differ in leaf width and involution, leaf vein number, certain morphometric characters of the inflorescence, and habitat. Isozyme band patterns also distinguished the northern and southern forms, and revealed little variation within populations. Because the northern and southern forms are genetically, ecologically, and morphologically distinct and apparently differ in chromosome number, they should be distinguished taxonomically as separate species. The southern form is here named C. muiriana sp. nov. in honor of John Muir, whose writings played in important role in the conservation of C. muiriana habitats. The name Calamagrostis breweri Thurber is retained for the northern form.
41425147|Monocotyledonous geophytes form one of the most showy elements of the California spring flora, particularly in open woodlands and grasslands, and post-fire chaparral slopes. There are 262 species of such geophytes in California, comprising 5.4% of the total flora of native vascular plants. Speciation has been particular active in the genera Allium and Calochortus, with 47 and 43 species, respectively. The majority of these species are endemic within California or the California Floristic Province in open woodland and shrubland habitats. These mediterranean-type communities are the typical habitats of 55% of California geophytes, and these species largely possess bulbs or corms as storage organs. Edaphic endemism has been an important component of speciation, with at least 35 species asssociated or obligately occurring on serpentine soils. Dry conifer forests and associated meadows are the characteristic habitats of 23% of the geophyte flora, followed by 13% in wet conifer forests and adjacent meadows. Forest understory geophytes commonly possess rhizomes or fleshy roots as storage organs. Only 8% of California geophytes are typical desert taxa, with the Mojave and Sonoran Desert regions particularly poor in species. Declining proportion of geophytes with increasing aridity is associated not just with the geophytes themselves, but with environmental conditions less favorable to the diversity of monocots broadly. More than one fourth of hese geophytes are currently listed as rare or endangered. The overall diversity of geophytes within California is comparable to their diversity in similar climate regimes in Chile and the western Mediterranean Basin. The mediterranean-type ecosystems of Western Australia and South Africa, however, contain a far richer diversity of geophytes.
41424975|The Mosquito Range of central Colorado contains a number of endemic and disjunct plant taxa. Among these is Eut rema penlandii (Brassicaceae), a species with arctic affinities known only from a few populations in the Mosquito Range. Previous studies predicted Eutrema was restricted to carbonate bedrock, but we found that an alkaline (carbonate) substrate is not a causative factor in the narrow endemism of this species. Critical environmental parameters include a continual supply of moisture from late snowbeds, and a cold microsite insulated by a bryophyte mat that retains moisture. These factors suggest that the species may be a Pleistocene relict with a currently limited amount of critical habitat. There is cause for concern about the future of this species in light of our climatic uncertainty.
41425120|Three consecutive years of monitoring Lupinas nanus bloom in central California demonstrates over an 11 fold difference in peak inflorescence numbers among years. Bloom duration was longest during those years that had the highest peak blooms. The level of peak annual bloom did not necessarily correlate with the total annual rainfall amount, but instead with the amount of rainfall during the period of January through March when seed induction and germination occur. High annual variation in the numbers of available flowers (during times when few other flower species are available) may have profound implications for early season bee fauna that utilize pollen of this species to complete their life cycle. These pollinator fluctuations might affect the pollination success of L. nanus and may ultimately produce the facultatively autogamous mating system observed in this species. In addition, the observed variation in flower abundance of this nitrogen-fixing species may have implications for nutrient availability within the ecosystem, thereby influencing the abundance and productivity of other plant species.
41424595|Opal phytoliths are produced by plants and persist in soils as microfossils with taxonomically distinct morphology. We found phytoliths produced by the original native perennial species in soil under an annual grassland, thus providing the first direct evidence that the Califomian grassland was formerly dominated by panicoid opal-producing grass. The most common panicoid-type opals were probably produced by Stipa pulchra. Frequencies of opal phytoliths from native grasses were greater at 10 cm depth than at the soil surface beneath the annual grassland. Comparison of opal phytolith frequencies from 10 cm deep at the annual site and an adjacent relict perennial grassland site suggested that the density of panicoid opal-producing native grasses on the annual site was once similar to the relict grassland.
41424254|Twelve species of Sonoran desert seeds are shown to be the preferred food of the desert harvester ant, Verotnessor pergandei (Mayr), at the Deep Canyon Desert Research Center, Riverside County, California. The nutrient and caloric content of these species are analyzed: step wise extraction of (1) surface lipid, (2) inner lipid, (3) protein, and (4) carbohydrate was followed by extraction by thin layer chromatography of monoterpenoids in the surface lipid fraction. Caloric content was estimated by nutrient content. Monthly records of nutrient intake per ant colony show that with some exceptions, lipid (excluding surface lipid) is taken in greatest proportion and carbohydrate in the smallest. The amount of surface lipid is highly correlated with the content of inner lipid, protein, and carbohydrate, and with the caloric content of the seeds. The amount of surface lipid, along with the monoterpenoids therein, is suggested as possible chemical cues that could be utilized by ants in the selection of seeds.
41425504|This study documents dominant woody species cover at 30 locales throughout the northern Sonoran Desert in order to observe distributional patterns and associations among taxa at the regional scale. Factor analysis revealed two main findings: first, although common taxa are broadly distributed over the same areas in the northern Sonoran Desert, species associations can be statistically distinguished locally; second, after factor analysis, Carnegiea gigantea density loaded highly (0.934) on the same factor with two of its common nurse species, Ambrosia deltoidea (0.843) and Olneya tesota (0.836), but not with Cercidium microphyllwn (0.139), also a common nurse. This suggests that available cover alone does not explain the observed Carnegiea gigantea patterns.
41425772|Rare, parasitic plants pose an interesting challenge to restoration practitioners. In addition to the problems associated with small population size, rare parasites may also be limited by their host requirements. We examined how the performance of a rare Pacific Northwest hemiparasite, Castillejo, levisecta, was affected by the availability of different host combinations in the greenhouse and in the field. Castillejo, levisecta individuals were grown with two individuals of the grass Festuca roemeri, individuals of the aster Eriophyllum lanatum, one individual of each of these species (a "mixed" treatment), or without any host. We did not find support for the complimentary diet hypothesis, which predicts that parasites grown with multiple host species perform better than individuals grown alone or with a single host. In the greenhouse, C. levisecta individuals grown in the mixed treatment had greater stem growth than those planted with F. roemeri, but did not differ from E. lanatum or nohost treatments. In the field, vole activity had indirect effects on levisecta survival mediated through host species: vole tunneling and levisecta mortality were strongly associated with host treatments including E. lanatum. Vole tunneling and C. levisecta mortality were strongly associated with host treatments including E. lanatum. Field survival of no-host and F. roemeri treatments were significantly higher than those grown with E. lanatum. Our results emphasize the importance of basing conservation decisions on experimental research conducted under conditions similar to those of the intended application, as greenhouse results were a poor predictor of field performance. For restoration of endangered hemiparasitic plants, we recommend planting with hosts that are not attractive to herbivores.
41426260|There are 29 taxa of native Salix and two species of naturalized tree willows in California. Notes on the taxonomy and distribution of these willows, made during the study of Salix for The Jepson Manual, are presented. The data included are synonymy, a statement of geographical distribution, comments on taxonomie problems and hybridization, and dot distribution maps. A key is presented to the naturalized species, hybrids, and cultivars. The greatest biodiversity of Salix is in the Sierra Nevada Region and the lowest in the Desert Region.
41424709|The tree form of Chrysolepis chrysophylla (giant chinquapin) is the most restricted and uncommon of the major sclerophyllous hardwoods in the Pseudotsuga-hardv/ood zone of the Klamath Mountains Geologic Province. The vegetation of three areas containing the species under different climatic conditions was examined to better understand its restriction. Chrysolepis chrysophylla was found to have the highest importance value of any hardwood tree averaged over all the sampling transects and was second in importance only to Pseudotsuga menziesii, the major canopy species. At all sites C. chrysophylla showed a distinct preference for mesic conditions with highest basal area cover occurring on northerly-facing slopes, or in mesic canyon bottoms. Seed-originated saplings were densest at the most mesic sites, whereas asexual sprouts were most prevalent at xeric sites. Areas of highest ground cover (> 52%) appeared to have lower densities of sexual reproduction. Lithocarpus densiflora the predominant hardwood associate with C. chrysophylla had higher importance values at relatively low elevations, becoming insignificant at elevations above ca. 1000 m, whereas C. chrysophylla continued as an important forest component to above 1400 m. Comparative research from other areas in the Klamath Province indicate C. chrysophylla requires mesic northerly-facing exposures and an annual rainfall of 1524 mm or greater to attain subdominance. Its architecture pre-adapts it for subdominance of the highest, snowiest portions of the Pseudotsuga-hardwood zone at the interface with the Abies concolor zone. In contrast to previous assumptions, C. chrysophylla is a climax, as well as a successional species in its small zone of occurrence in the Klamath Mountains.
41425447|A catalogue of 315 non-native vascular plant taxa documented as occurring spontaneously in California beyond those addressed in The Jepson Manual: Higher Plants of California is presented. The catalogue was compiled from new collections by the authors and others, previously existing herbarium specimens, formal publications, other printed reports, and direct communications with field botanists. Only reports backed by herbarium vouchers are accepted as adequately documented. Of the 315 species, 58 are fully or sparingly naturalized in relatively undisturbed wildland habitats, 53 are naturalized in disturbed areas, 34 are tenuously established or locally persisting, 13 are non-escaped weeds of greenhouse or similarly cultivated environments, 43 are presumed to be non-persisting casuals (waifs), for 110 there is no current information or observations available, and 4 have likely been extirpated. In addition, 13 reported taxa are here specifically excluded as based on erroneous information. Taxa highlighted as already being fully naturalized or potential pests are Amaranthus rudis, Brassica fruticulosa, Boehmeria cylindrica, Calystegia silvtica subsp. disjuncta, Cabomba caroliniana, Cotoneaster lacteus, Crataegus monogyna, Dittrichia graveolens, Fumaria capreolata, Geranium purpureum, Geranium rotundifolium, Heder canariensis, Limnobium laevigatum, Maytenus boaria, Pyracantha crenatoserrata, Salvinia molesta, Trifolium tomentosum, and Verbascum olympicum.
41424923|Opuntia densispina (Cactaceae) a new species in the series clavatae from Texas is described and illustrated. The new species has close affinity to O. emoryi of the Opuntia schottii complex in Texas. Morphological, chromosomal and phenological characters which distinguish this species from other taxa in the Opuntia schottii complex are provided.
41425846|Chenopodium littoreum is described as new. It had been incorrectly cited in the past as C. carnosulum Moq. var. patagonicum (Phil.) Wahl, a variety of the South American C. carnosulum. However, C. littoreum differs from the C. carnosulum complex in having narrowly elliptic to lanceolate and mostly unlobed leaves, consistently five stamens per flower, and seeds that are invariably horizontal. Chenopodium littoreum is similar to another South American taxon, C. patagonicum Phil. (= C. philippianum Aellen), but the latter differs in having basally lobed leaves, sepals fused above the middle, and generally one or two (rarely five) stamens. Chenopodium littoreum has a range currently known only from coastal dunes of San Luis Obispo Co. and Santa Barbara Co. of the Central Coast of California, plus a single historic collection from Los Angeles Co. of the South Coast of California.
41425311|This paper presents an analysis of variation in morphology and phenology in the California winter annual, Clarkia xantiana A. Gray (Onagraceae), along with an analysis of its geographic distribution. A set of characters associated with breeding system and flowering time clearly separate C. xantiana populations into two distinct sets: one large-flowered, late-flowering, highly protandrous, and having stigmas exserted several mm beyond anthers; and the other small-flowered, early-flowering, and exhibiting little or no protandry or anther-stigma separation. The latter set corresponds to the previously recognized C. xantiana subsp. parviflora (Eastw.). Harlan Lewis, although published key characters alone would not reliably distinguish these populations from C. xantiana subsp. xantiana. Surveys did not substantially extend the known limits of C. xantiana's range (from the southern Sierra Nevada and Greenhorn Mountains south to the San Gabriel Mountains, with the greatest concentration in the lower Kern River drainage). The surveys did, however, reveal that subsp. parviflora is much more abundant and widespread than reported previously. In certain arid sections of the range, all populations resemble subsp. parviflora. Thus, there is an association of autogamy with dry environments. In a central zone the subspecies coexist, often occurring at the same sites, but with flowering times displaced several weeks. Pink-and whiteflowered forms of subsp. parviflora are both common and widespread. Except for flower pigmentation, they are not clearly distinguishable by the characters measured here. This study will facilitate further investigation of the evolution of breeding systems and life history in C. xantiana.
41426303|Maritime chaparral stands on California's central coast are dominated by a number of endemic Arctostaphylos species and are the habitat for several other species of concern. Although chaparral is a fireadapted vegetation type, maritime chaparral occurs in densely populated regions where fire suppression prevents most stands from burning. In 2000, we re-sampled vegetation at six locations in north Monterey County's Prunedale sandhills that were sampled in 1975-1976 by Griffin (1978); this allowed us to document changes in community composition, canopy cover, and seedling abundance over a 25-year interval after more than 70 years of fire exclusion. Although species richness in the tree and shrub layers changed little between 1975-1976 and 2000, combined tree and shrub cover increased from 86 to 99%. Cover of Arctostaphylos pajaroensis J. Adams increased from 58 to 82%. Cover of Quercus agrifolia Nee and Heteromeles arbutifolia (Lindley) Roemer also increased significantly, whereas percent cover for most shrub species decreased, often dramatically. Species richness in the herb layer was markedly lower in the 2000 survey. Seedlings were rare under the dense canopy, although seedling abundance for Q. agrifolia and Mimulus aurantiacus Curtis increased. These results suggest that the long absence of fire in maritime chaparral stands may lead to dominance by one or two species and a gradual transition from chaparral to oak woodland. Land managers should consider the reintroduction of wildfire, or practices that mimic the effects of fire, to assure the long-term survival of maritime chaparral vegetation communities.
41424827|A new self-pollinating subspecies, Clarkia concinna subsp. raichei, is described from the California coast north of San Francisco Bay. It is interfertile with the other subspecies, C. concinna subsp. concinna and subsp. automixa, but differs in having less deeply lobed petals, more completely united sepals, shorter stature, and earlier flowering time.
41425844|We investigated the reproductive biology of the rare and endangered plant, Dudleya multicaulis at five separate sites, three natural and two mitigation sites. We employed dawn to dusk observations to determine the spectrum of pollinators visiting D. multicaulis, took pollen samples from visitors to determine floral constancy, sampled nectar to determine volume produced per flower, examined the number of flowers per inflorescence, the number of those flowers that produced seed, and total seed set to determine reproductive output, completed seed germination tests to determine viability, and transplanted germinated seedlings from Petri dishes to soil to determine how well seedlings survive transplanting. Dudleya multicaulis was visited by flower beetles, native and European honey bees, flies, and a variety of other insects. Nectar production per flower averaged 0.12 l. Bees averaged 99% floral constancy to D. multicaulis. Reproductive output measured by flower production and fruit/seed set were not significantly different among sites. Among all populations, the average fruit set ranged from 86.9 to 94.4%. The large fruit set coupled with the diversity of floral visitors suggests that D. multicaaulis is not pollinator limited. Data suggest that D. multicaulis is capable of self-pollination in absence of vectors. Seed germination and transplanted seedling survival did not differ significantly among sites. Results suggest that sowing seed may be better for plant establishment rather than transplanting when mitigation is necessitated.
41424420|Mimulus hymenophyllus, a new perennial species recently discovered growing on canyon walls in eastern Wallowa County, Oregon is described and illustrated. The new taxon appears morphologically and ecologically closest to M. jungermannioides, an allopatric species occurring to the west in the Columbia Basin. Mimulus hymenophyllus also shows affinities to M. moschatus, M. floribundus, and M. arenarius through similarities in the nature of the specialized glandular pubescence and the distinctive calyx structure. Based on these characters it is placed with this species group in the sect. Paradanthus.
41424799|Chromosome counts of n=15 were obtained for 5 populations of Mimulus glabratus subsp. fremontii from southern Canada, central United States and northern Mexico. A count of n=15 was obtained for M. glabratus subsp. michiganensis, a taxon in Category 2 on the Endangered Species list. Counts of n=31 were obtained for 5 populations of M. g. subsp. glabratus from Colombia. A count of n=46 was obtained for 1 population of M. andicolus from northern Argentina. Counts of n=46 were obtained for 9 populations from the eastern slopes of the Andes and 1 population from the western slopeall belonging to M. pilosiusculus. The results filled in geographic gaps in the M. glabratus complex's north-to-south, mixoploid chromosome series of n=15  n=30  n=31  n=46. Recuentos de cromosomas de n=15 se obtuvieron de 5 poblaciones de Mimulus glabratus subsp. fremontii del sur de Canad, el centro de los E. E. U. U., y el norte de Mxico. Un recuento de n=15 se obtuvo de M. glabratus subsp. michiganensis, un taxn en la Categora 2 de la lista de Especies Peligradas. Recuentos de n=31 se obtuvieron de 5 poblaciones de M. g. subsp. glabratus de Colombia. Un recuento de n=46 se obtuvo de un poblacin de M. andicolus del norte de Argentina. Recuentos de n=46 se obtuvieron de 9 poblaciones de las laderas orientales de los Andes y 1 poblacin de la ladera occidentaltodas ellas perteneciendo a M. pilosiusculus. Los resultados rellenan los vacos geogrficos del complejo de norte a sur en la serie mixoploide de cromosomas de n=15  n=30  n=31  n=46.
41424369|Vegetation on 19 plots in crownfire-killed pine stands was studied. After three seasons pine seedling density ranged from 7/ha to 1685/ha in four Pinus coulteri stands. Pine seedling density was 188/ha in a P. ponderosa stand. In a stand dominated by P. lambertiana before the fire, pine seedlings numbered 3178/ha; but P. coulteri outnumbered P. lambertiana 7: 1. Shrub layers of Ceanothus spp. seedlings and hardwood tree sprouts ranged from 16 percent to 68 percent cover in these stands. Species richness was low in the P. lambertiana stand, averaging 20 species/0.1 ha plot with only one important herb species. Species richness was higher in the P. coulteri stands with one stand averaging 74 species/0.1 ha plot. By the second season Lolium multiflorum dominated the herb layer in all P. coulteri stands, and the native herbs had low density and biomass. Low Pinus and Ceanothus seedling survival in two P. coulteri stands may have been related to Lolium competition.
41424795|Within Iris series Californicae, experimental hybrids between species are readily produced and natural hybrids have been reported as common. Iris thompsonii from the northwestern slopes of the Klamath Mountains has been described as a natural hybrid between I. douglasiana and I. innominata. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationships of these three species and in particular to determine the status of I. thompsonii. Methods used were discriminant and cluster analyses of morphological characters and a chemotaxonomic analysis of flavonoid pigments using thin layer chromatography. The thirteen populations studied were found to represent three species: I douglasiana, I. innominata, and I. thompsonii. This study does not support the current taxonomy for I. thompsonii that places this taxon within I. innominata as a color form or occasional hybrid between I. innominata and I. douglasiana.
41424608|Terminal inflorescences and axillary flowers have been reported in recent revisions of Eucnide (Loasaceae). Developmental studies show, however, that axillary flowers are not present. All flowers are terminal: the initial shoot axis terminates in a flower, and lateral branches that terminate in flowers after producing only one or two leaves arise from the distal nodes of each initial and renewal axis. The branching pattern in the inflorescence region of each axis is complicated by the apparent displacement of subtending leaves outward onto lateral floral branches during their extension.Renewal axes that first arise in the nodes subjacent to lateral floral axes reiterate the pattern of the initial axis.
41425002|Gilia heterostyla occurs in deep alluvial sands on floors and lower slopes of northsouth valleys of northern Nye County in central Nevada. It is morphologically similar to G. nyensis, G. subacaulis, and G. hutchinsifolia differing from these species by its distylous flowers, as well as several floral and leaf features. It is the first member of the Polemoniaceae found to be heterostylous.
41424961|Allozyme data were used to evaluate the genetic variation, relationships, and population genetic structure of three endemic grasses: Bealia mexicana, Muhlenbergia argntea, and M. lucida. Electrophoretic examination of 20 putative enzyme loci in 14 populations revealed that all three species have high genetic variability (H ranging from 0.19 to 0.26; F ranging from 0.073 to-1.000) indicative of mixed mating and outcrossing plants, this variation being sequestered within populations in B. mexicana and M. lucida and among populations in M. argentea. The highest allozymic similarity occurred between B. mexicana and M. argentea (I = 0.83) rather than between M. lucida and M. argentea (I = 0.59). At present, populations of the geographically restricted B. mexicana and M. argentea are not threatened due to lack of genetic variation and their survival depends on the maintenance of critical habitat. Mediante el anlisis de alozimas se evalu la variacin gentica, relaciones y estructura gentico de tres gramneas endmicas: Bealia mexicana, Muhlenbergia argntea y M. lucida. El examen electrofortico de 20 loci putativo enzimaticos en 14 poblaciones revel que las tres especies tienen una alta variabilidad gentica (H vara de 0.19 a 0.26; F vara de 0.073 a - 1.000), indicadora de aparejamiento variado y polinizacin cruzada, estando esta variacin dividida dentro de las poblaciones en B. mexicana and M. lucida y entre poblaciones en M. argntea. Se encontr mayor similitud alozimica entre B. mexicana y M. argntea (I = 0.83) que entre M. lucida y M. argntea (I = 0.59). Actualmente poblaciones de las geogrficamente restringidas B. mexicana y M. argntea no se encuentran en amenaza debido a falta de variacin gentica y su supervivencia depende de que se mantenga su habitat crtico.
41425798|The Second International Phytogeographical Excursion of 1913 was initiated by University of Chicago's Henry Cowles and represented the first international party of plant geographers to visit the United States. Among the twelve Europeans who participated were Cambridge University's Alfred Tansley, first president of the British Ecological Society (and later to coin the word "ecosystem"), and Adolf Engler, taxonomist and biogeographer of Berlin's Royal Botanical Gardens. Arriving in New York City at the end of July, the excursionists (nicknamed the "Phyto-jogs" by Willis Jepson) traveled by train to the West Coast, with stops in a variety of ecosystems. After arriving at San Francisco Bay from the Pacific Northwest in early September, the Phyto-jogs, guided by University of California's Jepson, proceeded to Yosemite National Park for field trips and a famous group photograph among Mariposa Grove's Giant Sequoias. On September 12 in Oakland, several of the European scientists presented major lectures at the California Botanical Society's first annual banquet. The following days included visits to sites of local interest, including Burbank's experimental garden, Mount Tamalpais and Muir Woods with Alice Eastwood, and the Carnegie Institution's Coastal Laboratory at Carmel. The last two days covered the California desert, including the Salton Sea, and Tucson's Carnegie Desert Laboratory within the Sonoran Desert. A year later Professor Tansley, reflecting on the phytogeographical diversity of America and the varied researches of its many energetic ecologists, wrote: "In that vast field of ecology America has secured a commanding position."
41426222|Snow Mountain (2152 m), on the Lake-Colusa-Glenn tricounty boundary in northwestern California, is the southernmost peak of the North Coast Ranges to exceed 1900 m. A quarter (128 spp.) of its known flora above 1500 m is at a margin of range there. For 126 of these, Snow Mt. is essentially the southernmost Coast Range locality and, of these 105 are of Sierran affinity. These 128 species are listed, with estimates of numerical importance and summaries of known ranges in California. Distribution patterns and geologic history of montane northern California suggest that many of these species entered the North Coast Ranges from the Klamath Ranges about as early as they occupied the Sierra Nevada and are not necessarily of Sierra Nevadan origin. The small number of Coast Range endemic taxa probably originated in situ from Klamath Region stocks and are now essentially relictual.
41425631|Prior molecular work using ITS and chloroplast sequence data revealed that the endemic Lithophragma trifoliatum and the broad-ranging L. parviflorum form a tight clade with a third species, L. affine. We used AFLPs to assess the fine scale relationship of these three species from populations where their distributions overlap in northern California. Our results revealed two groups of L. trifoliatum, one nested within a group of L. affine and L. parviflorum and the other grouped with other populations of L. parviflorum, contrary to predictions based on plant morphology alone. The morphological pattern was not supported by the molecular data, suggesting that pink flowers evolved more than once, concurrently with other floral traits such as size and nectary length. It is also possible that this pattern is due to recent evolution or gene flow between the two color morphs. The possible ecological importance of these differences in floral traits (e.g., for pollination) warrants further study, as well as the extent to which these populations are reproductively isolated.
41424548|A floristic survey of 20 stabilized and unstabilized sand dunes in the Great Basin and Mojave deserts was conducted over a 9-year period. Plants were tallied as present only if they were observed growing on deep, windblown accumulations of sand. A total of 166 taxa was documented, representing 88 genera and 27 families of vascular plants. Relative to other desert areas in Nevada and California, the dune flora was enriched with members of Asteraceae, Fabaceae, Chenopodiaceae, and Polemoniaceae and somewhat deficient in Poaceae. Approximately 95% of the taxa were indigenous. In comparison with Death Valley and eastern California, the dunes were overrepresented with annuals and geophytes and underrepresented with hemicryptophytes, chamaephytes, and stem succulents. Only a third of the taxa can be considered as strictly psammophytic and one-sixth as halophytic. Five taxa are endemic to one or a few dunes; 12 are sand-restricted but less limited geographically than the endemics.
41426292|The taxonomy of the Leptosiphon androsaceus Benth. complex has been troublesome because of remarkable morphological similarity among species. During the past 160 years, members of this complex have been classified in 4 different genera, and numerous specific and infraspecific names have been applied. Despite numerous treatments written by early taxonomists, analytical studies were not performed on these species until recently. We examined morphometric relationships among 1264 individuals from 51 populations, from the Central and South Coast Ranges. We focused on populations from San Francisco to Santa Barbara County because much of the variability in flower color occurs in this region, and color has been used by previous authors to distinguish species and subspecies. We investigated morphological variation using an array of multivariate analyses, including cluster analysis, principal components analysis, and discriminant analysis. Our analyses show six species of the L. androsaceus complex occur in this region of California: L. acicularis (Greene) Jeps., L. androsaceus, L. bicolor Nutt., L. croceus (Eastw.) J. M. Porter & L. A. Johnson, L. parviflorus Benth., and L. rosaceus. Leptosiphon croceus and L. rosaceus were described nearly 100 years ago, but have not been included in recent treatments. Our results offer strong support for recognition of L. croceus and L. rosaceus at the species level.
41425042|Erigeron bistiensis Nesom & Hevron is described and illustrated. It is presently known from a single population in San Juan County, New Mexico. The new species is a member of the E. compactus group of sect. Wyomingia and is very similar to E.untermannii from northeastern Utah. The concept of E. untermannii is broadened to include E. carringtoniae.
41424687|Few trends in species presence and frequency due to different timber harvest treatments were apparent 40 years after logging in the pine type of northeastern California. Ceanothus prostratus was generally absent from units where all trees larger than 29.5 cm dbh had been removed 40 years ago. Calocedrus decurrens was more frequent in uncut control plots. Species richness was constant across the area. Differences in species frequencies among experimental blocks located at five elevations suggested at least two major plant communities within the forested zone, with elevation a major environmental influence. A list of common plant species and their frequencies are provided for the Blacks Mountain Experimental Forest in northeastern California.
41425014|Linanthus latisectus, a newly recognized species from the southern portion of the California North Coast Ranges, is most similar to L. androsaceus and L. parviflorus but is morphologically distinct from those species in having orbicular cotyledons, an inflorescence of few bracts, an intermediate-sized corolla that remains open after initial anthesis, a densely glandular-pubescent calyx with lobes connivent around the corolla tube, and leaves positioned at a 90 angle to the stem, with broad, recurved lobes that are commonly rounded at the apex.
41425045|Navarretia myersii and N. prostrata of sect. Navarretia have a reduced habit, are nearly acaulescent, and have a terminal inflorescence. Mature floral heads bear sessile flowers and bracts on a common receptacle, surrounded by involucral leaves and bracts. This combination of features occurs also in a related, but new and rare plant described here as N. myersii subsp. deminuta. The three taxa are members of the N.leucocephala group, all of which are restricted to vernal pool habitats.
41425768|We present Part II of a catalogue documenting nonnative vascular plant taxa occurring spontaneously in California beyond those addressed in The Jepson Manual: Higher Plants of California (Hickman 1993). Here we document an additional 117 taxa occurring spontaneously in California that were not accounted for in Part I (Hrusa et al. 2002) or in The Jepson Manual. The catalogue was compiled from new collections by the authors and others, previously existing herbarium specimens, peer-reviewed publications, other printed reports, and direct communications with field botanists. Only reports backed by herbarium vouchers are accepted as adequately documented. Of the 117 taxa, 42 are fully or sparingly naturalized in relatively undisturbed wildland habitats, 14 are naturalized in non-wildlands (roadsides, fallow fields, croplands, other disturbed areas), 13 are tenuously established or locally persisting, 22 are weeds of greenhouse or other horticultural environments, 7 are presumed to be non-persisting casuals (waifs), and for 19 there is no current information. Taxa recorded as already being widely naturalized and/or potentially significant pests include Brachypodium sylvatcum, Cuscuta japnica, Danthonia decumbens, Glyceria declinata, Juncus usitatus, Melaleuca viminalis, Rytidosperma penicillatum, Verbena incompta and Zostera japonica.
41431653|We investigated the phylogenetic relationships and taxonomic status of the castaneoid component (Lithocarpus and Chrysolepis) of the family Fagaceae that is endemic to the California Floristic Province (CA-FP). Over 7800 basepairs of nuclear and chloroplast DNA were analyzed in 17 taxa representing the breadth of phylogenetic diversity in the family. The genus Lithocarpus, as currently defined, is clearly polyphyletic due to the inclusion of L. densiflorus. Here, we designate this taxon as a new genus, Notholithocarpus, which can be recognized morphologically by its relatively small, subprolate pollen. Notholithocarpus is more closely related to Quercus, Castanea, and Castanopsis; Chrysolepis was resolved as the sister group to Lithocarpus sensu stricto. These results indicate that Notholithocarpus does not possess true ' flower cupules,' which define Lithocarpus sensu stricto, but like the oaks, the single flower per cupule is derived through the abortion of lateral flowers within each cupule. Further study is required to confirm this characteristic. A formal taxonomic treatment is presented with new combinations.
41425268|Discovery of distinct bands of winter annual vegetation on dry playas in the Mojave Desert caused us to investigate the relationships between edaphic factors and plant distribution. We established three transects across the band of vegetation in Deadman Dry Lake and measured soil and plant characteristics.Monolepis nuttalliana, (Schultes) E. Greene Oligomeris linifolia, (M. Vahl) J. F. Macbr. and Schismus barbatus, (L.) Thell., all psuedohalophytic winter annuals, were encountered within the band. Soil texture and salinity appeared to be the primary determinants of the presence of vegetation. Distribution of winter annual vegetation within Deadman Playa appeared to be constrained by low soil moisture towards the outer edge, and high soil salinity towards the inner edge of the vegetation band.
41424256|Astragalus lentiginosus var. nigricalycis Jones is a leguminous, drought-evading hemicryptophyte endemic to the San Joaquin Valley of California. Germination in the growth chamber was 0-13 percent by day 20 over a wide range of temperatures (from constant 3C to alternating 35/2OC) and photoperiods (8-14 hr, 225 W/m). In a Temblor Range plot, we obtained 7.5 percent establishment with 115 mm precipitation. Eighteen hr light and 21  4C provided optimal conditions for vegetative growth. Davis, CA, field conditions led to flowering by early March. Seed vernalization was not effective in bringing this variety into flowering. Summer dormancy was moisture-dependent. Onset of wilting occurred at -3.8 MPa xylem pressure potential.
41426121|Four local populations of Bromus tectorum L. in eastern Washington display significant phenotypic differences for 71 characters as evaluated with the mean and standard deviation of the dissimilarity matrix. Analysis of change in sample size showed that ten individuals per population is sufficient to produce replicable results. Within-population variation in vegetative characters may correlate with habitat heterogeneity. Two contiguous populations differ in inflorescence characters that are not as readily altered by habitat heterogeneity. This differentiation may be the result of breeding system flexibility in Bromus tectorum.
41425759|Euphorbia terracina L., also known as terracina spurge, is a Mediterranean Basin perennial that has recently become invasive in southern California and is actively spreading at a virtually exponential rate along coastal areas in Los Angeles County. The National Park Service (NPS) is undertaking measures to treat and control further spread of current populations, but little is known about the plant's ecology and impact on native plant communities. This study reviewed the existing information on E. terracina and investigated populations established in Solstice Canyon in coastal Los Angeles County. Populations of E. terracina were compared in two different habitats in Solstice Canyon: in an open site along an old road and a shaded riparian site subject to past disturbance. Both opendisturbed and shaded sites had high aboveground biomass densities, with the highest density in the open, disturbed site. Sites differed in biomass allocation and specific leaf area (SLA) between sites, with plants at the open site having significantly lower specific leaf area than those at the shaded site. Open site plants also had high SLA compared to native coastal sage scrub species. Euphorbia terracina produces large quantities of seeds that do not show dormancy. Seeds germinated well under low light intensities without mechanical or chemical treatment. Euphorbia terracina possesses numerous traits  success in disturbed sites, phenotypic plasticity, high SLA compared to native species, high reproductive output, and seeds lacking dormancy  that have been associated with invasive ?species and likely contribute to both its success and the difficulty in treatment and control of established populations.
41425638|Silene salmonacea T.W. Nelson, J. P. Nelson and S.A. Erwin is here described as new and illustrated; endemic to the Klamath Mountains of Shasta-Trinity National Forest west of Clair Engle Lake. Silene salmonacea is compared with Silene hookeri Nutt. and Silene bolanderi A. Gray. A key to the three members of the S. hookeri complex is included.
41426209|Table Mountain, a basalt-capped mesa north of Oroville, supports an island of grassland and vernal pool vegetation in the northern Sierra Nevada foothills. This mesa is considered a valuable botanical resource because its flora represents a diverse remnant of the once extensive Sacramento Valley grasslands. No bunchgrass stands are present, but 224 of its taxa are natives, including several endangered, rare, or uncommon species. Table Mountain's herbaceous flora is diverse compared with other areas supporting a grassland-vernal pool mosaic in the valley. Three factors strongly influence this high diversity: 1) Habitat destruction is minimal; seasonal grazing is the only significant impact; 2) Species typically confined to the valley floor and others characteristic of higher elevations mix here with taxa expected in the grassy openings and understory of the oak woodland and chaparral vegetation normally present at this elevation (270481 m); 3) The mesa's diversity of habitats include intermittent streams, vernal pools, hog wallows, and 11 soil-related types. The later represent various stages in the mechanical decomposition of the bedrock and subsequent accumulation and development of soil. In the present study 287 species (66.6% annuals, 21.9% non-natives) from 175 genera and 58 families are reported.
41426184|Sympatric populations of Cirsium californicum (series Neomexicana) and Cirsium occidentale (series Occidentalia) were studied. The populations occurred as a set of colonies along Happy Canyon Road, Santa Barbara County, California. Morphological data, pollen fertilities, and controlled crosses all support the conclusion that the two taxonomic species studied are one biological species at the Happy Canyon site, that no sterility barriers exist to prevent gene recombination, and that hybrid and recombinant forms compose almost the entire Happy Canyon Cirsium population. However, microgeographic differentiation of recombinant morphological types was observed to be correlated to ecological habitats. Protein electrophoretic data support the conclusion that habitat-correlated electrophoretic and morphological phenotypes have a genetic basis rather than having been environmentally induced. The data suggest that the two species have hybridized in the studied population and that differentiation may be occurring along new lines.
41425893|Packera franciscana (Greene) W. A. Weber and A. Love is endemic to treeline and alpine habitats of the San Francisco Peaks, Arizona, USA and was listed as a threatened species under the Endangered Species Act in 1983. Species abundance data are limited in scope, yet are critical for recovery of the species, especially in light of predictions of its future extinction due to climate change. This study defined baseline population densities along two transects which will allow the detection of future population trends. Packera franciscana ranged from 3529 to 3722 m elevation along the outer slope transect and densities were 4.18 and 2.74 ramets m- in 2008 and 2009, respectively. The overall P. franciscana 2009 density estimate for both transects was 4.36 ramets m- within its elevational range of occurrence, 3471-3722 m. The inner basin density was higher, 5.62 ramets m-, than the estimate for outer slopes, 2.89 ramets m-.The elevation of the 2009 population centroid for both transects was at 3586 ( 10 SE) m with the inner basin centroid significantly lower than the outer slopes centroid: 3547 ( 7 SE) m vs. 3638 ( 7 SE) m, respectively. In mid-September, 69% of the P. franciscana ramets were flowering and/or fruiting in 2008-2009. These results and our estimate of > 36,000 P. franciscana ramets in <2% of its range would suggest that the species is locally abundant, persisting and reproducing.
41425437|Molecular and morphological data support an extended distribution of Eremalche exilis into the southern San Joaqun Valley and southern Inner South Coast Ranges of California, within the range of the morphologically similar, rare, and endangered E. kernensis. Nuclear rDNA sequences for plants from Kern County that were morphologically indistinguishable from E. exilis were identical at all non-polymorphic sites to sequences of undisputed E. exilis from the Mojave Desert and Sonoran Desert, but differed from sequences of E. kernensis by seven sequence mutations. Morphologically, E. exilis can be distinguished from E. kernensis by anther positionin flowers of E. exilis, the anthers are held at the same level as the stigmas; in bisexual flowers of E. kernensis, the anthers are situated well below the stigmas. Based on limited rDNA data, we found no evidence of gene flow between sympatric populations of E. exilis and E. kernensis.
41425263|The Arctostaphylos hookeri G. Don complex is composed of five subspecies whose classification has been problematic. We investigated the monophyly of A. hookeri using sequence data from the ITS and 26S regions of nuclear rDNA. Several of the individual plants sequenced contained ITS sequence polymorphism. An investigation of 34 Arctostaphylos taxa, using RFLP data, demonstrated that polymorphism in the ITS region exists in several members of the genus. Collectively, our results indicate 1) the subspecies of A. hookeri are not monophyletic, 2) the current understanding of many species relationships within the genus and the circumscription of subgenera and sections need to be further investigated, and 3) a complex pattern of ITS sequence evolution is suggestive of either hybridization or sorting of ancestral polymorphism.
41425064|The primary threat to the California flora posed by wildfires is through human intervention with the natural fire cycle. Fires at frequent intervals, e.g., less than 5 years, can have devastating impacts on the survival of fire-adapted species. Aerial seeding of burned habitats poses another significant threat, as seeded species are capable of competitively displacing natives as well as creating conditions conducive to repeat fires.
41425165|Treeless summits and ridges in the otherwise densely forested mountains of northern Idaho have a distinctive flora compared with surrounding areas. Although small in size, these subalpine parks add greatly to the biotic diversity of the regional landscape and are habitats for several plant species considered rare in Idaho. I conducted a floristic inventory of 32 parks in the mountains of the Coeur d'Alene River drainage and adjacent portions of the St. Joe drainage. The subalpine park flora contains 151 taxa representing 97 genera in 34 families. Car ex species are surprisingly depauperate in terms of both number and cover as is the alien flora with only four species. I discovered populations of five rare plants, including Carex xerantica, which is here reported for Idaho for the first time. The other species considered rare in the state are Astragalus bourgovii, Carex californica, Ivesia tweedyi, and Romanzoffia sitchensis.Stevens Peak (2084 m) is the highest summit and is phytogeographically unique. It contains habitat for six species occurring nowhere else in the study area, all having high-elevation cordilleran or circumboreal affinities.
41426244|Chaboissaea includes four species, three occurring in Mexico and one in Argentina and Bolivia. Allozyme data were used to evaluate the genetic diversity within and among populations of Chaboissaea atacamensis, c. decumbens, c. ligulata, and C.subbiflora. Electrophoretic examination of 23 putative enzyme loci in 22 populations revealed that the diploid species (C. atacamensis, C. ligulata, C. subbiflora) are highly variable genetically (P. ranging from 0.56 to 0.71; H ranging from 0.44 to 0.46) and show high levels of genetic diversity (F ranging from 0.30 to 0.70). These values are frequently encountered in outcrossing plants, where genetic variation is sequestered primarily within populations. The highest conspecific allozymic similarity occurred between C. atacamensis and C. subbiflora (I = 0.81). It seems likely that these two species are the most derived diploid members of the genus and that the migration of the progenitor of C. atacamensis to South America has occurred recently. The annual habit found in the three species, appears to have arisen as a single event. Chaboissaea comprende cuatro especies, de las cuales tres se encuentran en Mxico y una en la Argentina y Bolivia. Mediante el anlisis de alozimas se evalu la diversidad gentica dentro y entre poblaciones de Chaboissaea atacamensis, C.decumbens, C. ligulata, y C. subbiflora. El examen electrofortico de 23 loci putativo enzimaticos en 22 poblaciones revel que las especies diploides (C. atacamensis, C. ligulata, y C. subbiflora) tienen una alta variabilidad gentica (P vara de 0.56 a 0.71; H vara de 0.44 a 0.46; F vara de 0.30 a 0.70), indicativa de la existencia de polinizacin cruzada. Esta variacin se encuentra principalmente dentro de las poblaciones. Se encontr mayor similitud alozimica entre C. atacamensis y C.subbiflora (I= 0.81). Probablemente estas dos especies diploides sean derivadas de un ancestro comn y la migracin de C. atacamensis a Sudamrica ha sido reciente. El hbito anual, comn a las tres especies, muestra que probablemente se originaron al mismo tiempo.
41424847|We describe three cases of hybridization between species of Ribes in the Klamath Mountains of northern California and southern Oregon. Based on their intermediacy and reduced pollen viability, we identified putative hybrids between R. lobbii and R. roezlii var. cruentum, R. binominatum and R. marshallii, and R. binominatum and R. lobbii. The hybrids live in recently cleared forests, where logging created extensive areas suitable for seedling establishment. Even though they are partially fertile, backcrossing and interbreeding have not generated an extensive array of recombinant types. Judging from field observations and surveys of herbarium specimens, hybridization between these species of Ribes appears to be uncommon, and there is little evidence that introgression is blurring the distinctions between them.
41426332|A descriptive plant survey was conducted of Golden and Silver Falls State Natural Area in the Coast Range northeast of Coos Bay in Coos County, Oregon, during 1988, 1990, and 1997. The 63.6 ha natural area was established in 1936 to preserve an old-growth stand of Pseudotsuga menziesii surrounding the area of two scenic waterfalls. Vascular flora consisted of 241 specific and infraspecific taxa in 162 genera from 61 families, of which 70 taxa (29 %) were exotics. The five plant habitats were steep coniferous mountain slopes (Pseudotsuga menziesii-Tsuga heterophylla/Acer circinatum/Polystichum munitum association) and (Pseudotsuga menziesii-Tsuga heterophylla/Gaultheria shallon/Polystichum munitum association), sandstone cliff escarpments, lowland valley hardwoods (Acer macrophyllum-Umbellularia californica/Polystichum munitum association), ruderal, and riparian floodplain (Alnus rubra/Rubus spectabilis/Oxalis oregana association).
41425808|Alkali meadow habitata groundwater dependent ecosystemis rare in California, and its response to fire has not been documented. We sampled vegetation in this habitat across a pumpinginduced depth-to-water (DTW) gradient immediately before, then eight weeks after, a summer wildfire. After the fire in the burned area, we documented vigorous re-growth of native perennial grasses in areas of shallow groundwater but no re-growth of shrubs. The dominant grass Sporobolus airoides flowered in the shallow end of the DTW gradient but never advanced beyond vegetative phenology (leaves) in the drawn-down end. DTW explained 77% of the grass cover variance in the post-fire burned area, and 87% and 94% of the grass cover variance in the pre-fire and post-fire unburned (control) areas, respectively. This suggests that post-fire re-growth was re-establishing a cover-DTW relationship already present before the fire. The principal short-term fire effect was the elimination of shrub cover due to apparent shrub mortality. Our study shows fire may be an effective management tool for regenerating alkali meadow in areas of shallow groundwater. However, in areas subject to long-term water table drawdowns we found negligible grass re-growth and increased vulnerability to erosion, suggesting fire may accelerate the process of type-conversion from meadow to xeric shrubland.
41424704|From principal components analyses, patterns of morphological variation were determined in and among three populations of Cerastium arvense and one population of C. beeringianum, under both field (natural) and garden conditions. The three populations of C. arvense occurred at near sea level, mid-montane and alpine elevations, respectively. The C. beeringianum population was also alpine and occurred on a serpentine substrate, as did the mid-montane population of C. arvense. The analyses showed considerable phenotypic plasticity in non-serpentine populations, much less in serpentine populations. There appeared to be little genetic differentiation in C. arvense along the elevational gradient, except for a more or less persistent cushion habit in the alpine population. The two closely related species overlapped morphologically but could be separated by variables used, especially when grown under garden conditions.
41424485|Detrended correspondence analysis, an indirect ordination technique, and two-way indicator species analysis, a classification method, were employed to analyze tree cover data from mixed conifer and mixed evergreen forests on the north slope of Pine Mountain in the western Transverse Ranges. The first and second axes of the indirect ordination were correlated with elevation and topography, respectively. The distributions of seven tree species are presented in two-dimensional population nomograms along gradients of elevation and topography. Five species, Abies concolor, Calocedrus decurrens, Pinus lambertiana, P. ponderosa and Pseudotsuga macrocarpa attain maximum importance on more north-facing exposures on the topographic gradient, although at different elevations; whereas, P. jeffreyi and Quercus chrysolepis are best represented on more south-facing exposures at higher and lower elevations, respectively. Sixteen forest types were identified within the montane forest. The types are described and their positions arrayed in a mosaic diagram in the same two-dimensional gradient framework.
41426299|A new perennial grass species, Poa bajaensis, is described from Baja California, Mexico. It is compared to P. strictiramea Hitchc, and the type of P. orcuttiana Vasey. The species has long been known by the latter name in herbaria. It may be distinguished from these by its short upper leaf blades, more closed sheaths, and abaxially smoother leaves and smoother panicle branches. It is endemic and fairly frequent in the upper elevations of the Sierra San Pedro Mrtir. The new species is tentatively considered to be related to P. strictiramea, and to be near to P. sect. Homalopoa Dumort. Se discribe una nueva gramnea perenne, Poa bajaensis, de Baja California, Mexico. Se compara con P. strictiramea Hitchc. y el tipo de P. orcuttiana Vasey. Este especies, por mucha tiempo se denomin P. orcuttiana en los herbarios. Se puede distinguir de las otras dos, por las cortas hojas de caulinares de la parte superior, por las vainas mas cercanas, y por las hojas abaxialmente mas lisas y las ramas de panculas mas lisas. Es aparantemente endmica, y mas o menos frquente en las elevaciones superiores de da Sierra San Pedro Mrtir. La nueva especie tentativemente esta relacionada con P. strictiramea, y parece estar cercana a P. sect. Homalpoa Dumort.
41426265|Populations of Hastingsia bracteosa s.l., including H. atropurprea, were examined for macro-morphological differences, pollen size, viability and surface features, isozyme markers, phenology and color constancy in flowers and capsules. No discontinuity in morphological characters was found. Sympatric, intermediate and interfertile plants suggest the two taxa are too close to maintain as full species, and we propose reducing H. atropurprea to a variety of the earlier name H. bracteosa.
41424405|The taxonomic position of Pellaea bridgesii has been questioned because of its distinctive soriation and lack of strongly reflexed segment margin. In these characters, P. bridgesii differs from its presumed congeners only in degree. Furthermore, its peculiar glands appear no different from those of other pellaeas. The discovery of hybrids between this species and P. mucronata var. mucronata, a "typical" member of the genus, suggests an unexpectedly close relationship between P. bridgesii and other species of Pellaea sect. Pellaea, particularly the P. mucronata group in western North America. This hybrid, here named P. glaciogena, shows morphological intermediacy in nearly all characters between the putative parents, 58 univalents at meiosis, and mostly malformed spores or abortive sporangia. It is known from several localities at middle elevations in the central Sierra Nevada of California.
41425349|Picea A. Dietr. (spruce) is an essentially boreal genus, but three endemic taxa occur in Mxico. Coordinates were determined for all known stands to accurately map their range and stimulate their protection, conservation, and study. Thirty-nine stands of Picea chihuahuana Martnez (Chihuahua spruce) in the Sierra Madre Occidental were found in three clusters, each separated by 2 to 2.5  of latitude. The southernmost stands occur just south of the Tropic of Cancer. The entire north-south range is 687 km. Mean elevation of southern and central clusters was 2675 m, but stands in the northern cluster averaged over 350 m lower in elevation. Picea chihuahuana was associated with steep-sided arroyos or at the base of barrancas (cliffs or gorges). Picea martinezii T. F. Patterson (Martinez spruce) was found in six stands in the Sierra Madre Oriental, at an elevation of about 2250 to 2650 m and all within 147 km of each other. Picea mexicana Martnez (Mexican spruce) occurred on two of the highest ridges in the Sierra Madre Oriental, about 5 km apart and at an elevation of about 3500 m, and on the highest point (3185 m) in Chihuahua in the Sierra Madre Occidental, 676 km to the west. It is probable that P. mexicana will be found on one or two other high ridges in the Sierra Madre Oriental. Every P. chihuahuana over 0.3 m in height was counted, measured, and scored for mistletoe infection, fire damage, and crown dieback from unknown cause(s) in 21 stands. Similar observations were made for another 18 stands by Narvaz et al. (1983) about 15 years earlier. The combined count was 42,610 P. chihuahuana, which includes 24,221 trees and saplings over 2 m tall and 18,389 seedlings under 2 m but over 0  3 m in height. The distribution of diameter classes in our sample of 21 stands was a reverse-J, suggesting that the species is reproducing. However, the ratio of seedlings to saplings and trees was less than 1.0 in all except four of the 39 stands, indicating that the species may actually be in jeopardy. Based on ring counts from increment cores and stumps, P. chihuahuana can reach 272 years of age.This is a relatively short life span compared to other North American spruces. The largest trees were 51 m tall and 125 to 150 cm in diameter-breast-high, and size was about average compared to its congeners in the United States and Canada. Many trees were in poor condition or damaged from cutting, mistletoe, top dieback, and fire. Contrary to expectations, the southern stands were in no poorer condition than the northern, and in fact, the incidence of mistletoe was highest in the north; this seems to be the first report of mistletoe on P. chihuahuana. Trees in southern stands were larger and older, and the ratio of seedlings to saplings and trees was highest in the southern and central stands and lowest in the north. Los abetos (Picea A. Dietr.) son un gnero esencialmente boreal. A pesar de lo anterior, tres taxa endmicos ocurren en Mxico. Las coordenadas geogrficas fueron determinadas para todos los rodales conocidos con el propsito de ubicar de una manera precisa su rea de distribucin en un mapa y promover su proteccin, conservacin y estudio. Treinta y nueve rodales de Picea chihuahuana localizados en la Sierra Madre Occidental estuvieron agrupados en tres clusters, cada uno separado por 2 a 2.5 de latitud. Los rodales ms sureos ocurrieron justamente al sur del Trpico de Cncer. El rea entera de distribucin de norte a sur fue de 687 km. El promedio de elevacin de los clusters del sur al centro fue de 2675 m, sin embargo, en los rodales pertenecientes a los clusters del norte, estos promediaron 350 m ms bajos en elevacin. Picea chihuahuana estuvo asociada con arroyos en pendientes pronunciadas y barrancas.Picea martinezii fue encontrada en seis rodales en la Sierra Madre Oriental, a una elevacin de cerca de 2250 m a 2650 m y localizados todos a una separacin de 147 km uno del otro. Picea mexicana ocurri en dos de los puntos ms altos en la Sierra Madre Oriental separados 5 km uno del otro a una elevacin cerca de 3500 m, y sobre uno de los puntos ms altos (3185 m) en Chihuahua en la Sierra Madre Occidental, 676 km al oeste. Es posible que Picea mexicana pudiera ser encontrada sobre uno u otros dos de los puntos mas elevados en la Sierra Madre Oriental. Cada una de las plntulas de Picea chihuahuana arriba de 0.3 m de altura fue contada, medida, y registrada por presencia de infestacin de murdago, dao por incendio, y muerte por despunte de la copa debido a causas desconocidas en 21 rodales. Observaciones similares fueron hechas para otros 18 rodales por Narvaz et al. (1983) con 15 aos de anterioridad. La contabilizacin combinada fue de 42 610 plantas de Picea chihuahuana, la cual incluy 24 221 rboles adultos y jvenes fustales arriba de 2 m de alto y 18 389 plntulas abajo de 2 m. La distribucin de clases de dimetro en nuestra muestra de 21 rodales tuvo una distribucin de una jota invertida, sugiriendo que la especie se esta reproduciendo. Sin embargo, la proporcin de plntulas a jvenes fustales y arboles adultos fue menos de 1.0 en tados, excepto en cuatro de los 39 rodales, indicando que la especie podra realmente estar en peligro de extincin. Sobre la base del conte de los anillos de crecimiento en virutas de madera y tocones, Picea chihuahuana puede alcanzar hasta 272 aos de edad. Esto es un ciclo de vida corto comparado con otras piceas norteamericanas. Los rboles ms grandes tuvieron 51 m de alto y de 125 cm a 150 cm de dimetro a la altura del pecho y su tamao estuvo cerca del promedio comparado con sus congneres en los Estados Unidos y Canad. Muchos rboles presentaron una condicin pobre o estuvieron daados por corta, murdago, despunte de copa por causas indeterminadas, y fuego. Los datos pueden ser utilizados para monitorar la especie para cambios futuros. La evidencia de fsiles indica que el rea de distribucin de Picea chihuahuana estuvo confinada hacia el norte durante el Holoceno, y nosotros especulamos que los rodales localizados ms hacia el sur podran estar en una condicin mas pobre que aquellos localizados hacia el norte. Contrario a las expectaciones, los rodales localizados hacia el sur no estuvieron en una condicin muy pobre comparados con aquellos localizados hacia el norte, y de hecho, la incidencia de infestacin por murdago fue ms alta en el norte. Los arboles en los rodales del sur fueron ms grandes y viejos, y la proporcin de plntulas a jvenes fustales y rboles adultos fue ms alta en los rodales del sur y del centro, y ms baja en el norte.
41424714|A total of 53 names in Arctostaphylos are reviewed, 16 being synonyms. Of the remaining 37, designated hybrids account for 13 names: A  benitoensis Roof, A.  bracteata T. J. Howell, A.  cinrea T. J. Howell, A.  coloradensis Rollins, A.  hellen Eastw., A.  jepsonii Eastw., A.  laxiflora Heller, A.  oblongifolia T. J.Howell, A.  pacifica Roof, A.  parvifolia T. J. Howell, A.  strigosa T. J. Howell (and also A.  campbellae Eastw. and A x media Greene that had earlier achieved this status). Reductions from species to subspecies include 3 names: A. sonomensis Eastw., A. montaraensis Roof, and A. knightii Gankin & Hildreth; reductions from species to form comprise 5 names: A. acutifolia Eastw., A. adenotricha Lve, Lve & Kapoor, A. candidissima Eastw., A. setosissima Eastw., and A. tracyi Eastw.; and the remaining 16 names are downward shifts in infraspecific rank, mainly from variety to form.
43288991|Cryptantha wigginsii I.M. Johnston (Boraginaceae) had previously been known from a single collection made in April 1931, at a locality 18 miles south of Tijuana, Baja California, Mexico. This species is distinctive and unique in the genus in having nutlets with a surface that is smooth and glossy near the base and densely tuberculate at the apex. Because of the absence of subsequent collections, the species was presumed extinct. However, a population of C. wigginsii was recently discovered in Carlsbad, San Diego Co., California, constituting a new county, state, and country plant species record. Subsequent field investigations and study of (mis-identified) Cryptantha specimens at several California herbaria has turned up additional documented populations of this species in the USA and coastal northwestern Baja California, Mexico. In addition to the three adjacent Carlsbad populations and the type locality in Baja California, populations known to date include: 1) five from Santa Catalina Island, Los Angeles Co.; 2) one from Riverside Co.; and 3) three from northwestern Baja California. Cryptantha wigginsii is commonly found in, but apparently not restricted to, clay soil. Although additional populations may be found now that the taxon has been rediscovered, it is rare enough to warrant future listing as a sensitive and rare plant. Appropriate measures should be taken to preserve existing populations, some of which may be in danger of extirpation. The identification of vouchers of this species from existing herbarium collections highlights the need for depositories of plant collections and for their continued study by taxonomists and systematists.
41424311|Calypso bulbosa var. occidentalis is a western North American terrestrial orchid. In the northern California populations studied, these plants are allogamous and pollinated by Bombus queens and Psithyrus females. Bee visitation, however, is infrequent. Calypso bulbosa var. occidentalis is a generalized food-flower mimic and must rely on exploratory visits of naive bees for pollination. Abrupt rises in the number of flowers pollinated corresponds with sudden increases in available pollinators. Fruit is set low (11-34 percent), and is comparable to that mentioned in reports of other temperate food-deceptive orchids.
41425585|Phylogenetic studies of Lessingia Cham, show that different corolla coloration (pink/white vs. yellow) diagnoses the two major clades of Lessingia sensu stricto. There are no taxonomic changes in the "pink/white group" but two taxa within the "yellow group," recognized by Lane (1993) as L. glandulifera A. Gray and L. lemmonii A. Gray, are not monophyletic and have therefore been realigned to reflect natural lineages. The circumscription of L. lemmonii sensu Lane (1993) has been expanded and now includes the type specimen of L. glandulifera, a name that has priority over L. lemmonii. Plants included in a narrowed circumscription of L. glandulifera sensu Lane (1993) will now be recognized as L. pectinata Greene. Lessingia glandulifera A. Gray van peirsonii (J. T. Howell) Markos and L. pectinata Greene van tenuipes (J. T. Howell) Markos are new combinations.
41425914|Olea europaea (European olive) is invasive in Australia and widely planted in California.Vertebrates, particularly birds, mediate Olea seed dispersal. Fruits are large, but their sizes range widely. We measured fruit widths from 12 study stands in California and constructed esophageal probes in diameters spanning the resulting size range. We then obtained whole-bird frugivorous bird carcasses and used the probes to determine the fruit sizes that each bird species would be anatomically capable of swallowing. This allowed us to develop lists of potential dispersers for each study stand. Even stands with the largest measured fruits had several potential disperser species, but the list of species expanded greatly as fruit sizes decreased. Feral Olea stands with remarkably small fruits have been observed in California and Australia. An increase in the incidence of such stands might augment the regional spread rate for the species.
41702410|Ptychostomum pacificum J. R. Spence & Shevock, a new and highly distinctive species restricted to fen habitats within coniferous forests in California, Oregon, and extreme western Nevada is described and illustrated. This species appears to be related to P. turbinatum (Hedw.) J. R. Spence but is easily distinguished by a combination of features including large size, percurrent yellowish-brown costa with numerous incrassate cells at the leaf tip, strongly recurved leaf margins, and elongate cylindrical to narrowly pyriform capsules.
41425550|Seasonal changes of water potential, leaf pubescence and foliage area were compared between two groups of Encelia farinosa (brittlebush) growing under field conditions: one group was partial defoliated, the other was left in tact. Partial defoliation at the start of seasonal drought induced compensatory foliage growth with no evidence of ecophysiological compensation, including the expected departure from leaf pubescence values of control plants. The compensatory foliage growth occurred within the first month of drought, but allocation to these additional leaves did not appear to have a pronounced effect on overall plant growth for the season. Leaf pubescence is crucial for maintaining favorable energy and water balance in this species, and it is suggested that the lack of physiological compensation may result from constraints imposed by this character, particularly its important interaction with plant water status during the hot and arid growing season in the Mojave Desert.
41424793|We describe the forest habitat types of the South Warner Mountains in northeastern California using floristic composition and associated environmental variables from 261 relevs. Floristic data were analyzed with an agglomerative polythetic hierarchical cluster analysis. Results indicate four series (Cercocarpus ledifolius, Populus tremu loides, Abies concolor, and Pinus albicaulis), containing nine habitat types and two phases. Environmental variables (elevation, aspect, slope, surface rock cover, and topographical position) were ordinated with principal component analysis and a moisture equivalency index. These results indicate that forest habitat types occur along a complex elevation/soil/moisture gradient. The elevation, aspect, and topographic position were the best predictors of general pattern. Only distribution of Cercocarpus ledifolius and Populus tremuloides series appear to be edaphically controlled.
41425643|Keys are provided to 54 genera, 142 species, 6 infraspecific taxa, and 3 undescribed species of California liverworts and hornworts within 33 families. In addition, 3 genera and 16 species previously reported have been excluded from the California bryoflora. The keys emphasize gametophytic characters. Annotated comments for each species focus on what to look for and how to separate it from species with similar morphology. The worldwide and California distribution of each species is provided.
41425067|At the Jepson Symposium, a workshop entitled "The Future of California Floristics and Systematics: Collecting Guidelines and Documentation Techniques" was convened on 4 June 1994, to prepare and approve by consensus a series of findings and recommendations that can be used to improve substantially the documentation of the environmental review process and scientific methodology so that preparation and preservation of botanical voucher specimens will become a professional standard. The workshop was attended by fifty-one participants who approved the findings and 14 recommendations in four major areas of concern: (1) documentation of environmental analyses with herbarium voucher specimens; (2) documentation of experimental research with herbarium voucher specimens; (3) presentation of hierarchical data on specimen labels; and (4) what will the future hold for documentation of California's botanical heritage?
41425323|The adult sex ratio of Phoradendron juniperinum A. Gray (juniper mistletoe) was determined on ten severely infected Juniperus monosperma (Engelm.) Sarg, (one-seeded junipers) near Flagstaff, AZ. The adult sex ratio of P. juniperinum has previously been reported to be male-biased. Although two trees did have a male-biased sex ratio, two trees had a female-biased sex ratio, and the overall sex ratio of this population of P. juniperinum was essentially 1:1. The sex ratio of adult P. juniperinum was also examined on the south, east, west, and north sides (quadrants) of each tree. There was a large amount of variation in the sex ratio by quadrant among individual trees. However, the overall sex ratio was not significantly different from a 1: 1 ratio in the south, east, and north quadrant, while the west quadrant had a femalebiased sex ratio. The sex ratio of adult P. juniperinum also varied by height when the data were pooled for all trees. Our results also indicate that the total number of P. juniperinum (adults and non-reproductive plants combined) was usually greater on the south sides of trees with fewer on the north sides. The reasons for the distribution of P. juniperinum within the crowns of host trees are discussed in relation to how this parasitic plant is disseminated.
41425564|The pattern of genetic variation within and among 13 natural populations (294 individuals) representing the four varieties of Isomeris arbrea (Capparaceae) throughout its range in California was investigated with allozyme electrophoresis. Thirty enzyme loci were examined. Low genetic diversity within populations (A = 1.18, P = 0.139, H<sub>E</sub> = 0.051 and H<sub>o</sub> = 0.051) and significant genetic differentiation among populations (F<sub>ST</sub> = 0.462) were found. A relatively large number of private aleles (9) were detected as well as several unique aleles confined to single varieties. We found a relatively high proportion of total genetic diversity (45%) among varieties and a significant correlation (P < 0.001) between F<sub>ST</sub> and geographic distance. Multiple regression analyses demonstrated clines in genetic diversity measures, from East to West and South to North. Multiple Correspondence Analysis (MCA) clearly demonstrated division into a minimum of two groups. The above observations together with low gene flow estimates suggest genetic drift by isolation may have been critical to the current genetic structure of the species. We tentatively argue, based on our results, that variety globosa may be deserving of subspecies status.
41425299|Eryngium pendletonensis (Apiacae) is a new species from Camp Pendleton Marine Corps Base, San Diego County, CA. It occurs in seasonally moist grasslands, swales, and vernal pools on coastal slopes and mesas and is distinguished from other species of Eryngium sect. Armata in having a combination of flower bracts with thickened margins, pinnately divided leaves, and short, central primary stem axes.
41702545|We measured biomass and frequency of herbaceous species before and 12 years after removal of feral sheep from a grassland on Santa Cruz Island, California. Native grasses, especially Stipa spp., increased dramatically following sheep removal whereas all exotic grasses except Avena spp. decreased, probably reflecting the competitive ability of native grasses as well as differential vulnerabiHty to grazing. Native forbs showed a mixed response, with some species increasing but many decreasing, perhaps because some native forbs benefit from grazing. Almost all exotic forbs decreased, likely because these species benefit from herbivores and their activities. Our results provide encouraging evidence that an island grassland dominated by exotic species has the potential for recovery from severe overgrazing.
41424623|Establishment dates of basal sprouts of Sequoia sempervirens were found to be reliable estimates of known fires in Redwood National Park and Prairie Creek State Park in Humboldt Co., California. Fire history of an old-growth S. sempervirens forest in the Bull Creek watershed in Humboldt Redwoods State Park, northwestern California, was determined by analyzing S. sempervirens basal sprouts, fire scars, and dates of establishment of Pseudotsuga menziesii and Abies grandis. Fire frequency was estimated for watershed zones, for a clearcut area having fire scars, and for the entire study area. Conservative and liberal estimates of the fire cycle were made. Presettlement fire intervals were: 24.6 yr for watershed zones, 31 yr for the area with fire scars, and 13.3 yr for the entire study area. The conservative estimate of the fire cycle was 51.6 yr and the liberal estimate was 26.2 yr. Settlement fire intervals were: 15.6 yr for watershed zones and 7.5 yr for the entire study area. The conservative and liberal estimates of the fire cycle were 16 and 10 yr. Post-settlement fire intervals were: 7.8 yr for the watershed zones, 14 yr for the area with fire scars, and 4.5 yr for the entire study area. The conservative and liberal estimates of the fire cycle were 16 yr and 9.5 yr. Statistically significant differences (p < 0.05) were found between the fire interval means for all three settlement periods. No statistically significant differences (p > 0.05) were found between settlement period and fire size. Fire size was not correlated with fire frequency.
41424954|Stefan Vogel proposed that flowers of Asarum s.l. mimic the fruiting bodies of fungi and are pollinated by flies whose larvae feed on mushrooms. Contrary to this view, the flowers of A. hartwegii are predominantly autogamous in the Klamath Mountains of northern California. Seed set of bagged flowers in one large population was equivalent to that of unmanipulated controls while emasculated flowers set only about 3% as many seeds as controls. Circumstantial evidence suggests, however, that the vectors responsible for the limited amount of allogamy are mycophagous flies lured by deception. We found fly eggs in 38% of more than 1100 flowers inspected over a four year period. The eggs belonged to 8 species in at least 4 families. The most abundant were laid by Suillia thompsoni (Heleomyzidae), whose larvae are obligately mycophagous. Two of the other three flies we identified, Docosia sp. (Mycetophylidae) and Scaptomyza pallida (Drosophilidae), also have mycophagous larvae while the larvae of the third species, Hylemyafugax (Anthomyiidae), normally feed on decaying plant material. Hatched eggs were common in the flowers, but we rarely saw larvae, implying that floral tissue is not a suitable larval substrate and that ovipositing females are attracted by deception. Evidence that the flies are pollinators comes from studies of emasculated flowers: those with eggs were more than three times as likely to set fruit as those without eggs.
41425711|Native perennial bunchgrasses have undergone steep declines across much of California but persist in sizable populations along the northern coast. The longer rainy season and less severe summer drought in this region are thought to facilitate bunchgrass persistence in the face of extensive invasion by exotic annual species. Changes in the seasonality and intensity of precipitation that accompany global climate change could critically influence efforts to conserve and restore these plants in California grasslands. We established a large-scale manipulation of rainfall in a protected Mendocino County grassland to investigate how predicted shifts in precipitation affect the performance of three native perennial bunchgrass species in exotic-dominated stands. We added seeds, plugs, and mature tussocks of Danthonia californica, Elymus glaucus, and Elymus multisetus into replicate plots of exotic annual grassland and subjected the plots to one of three experimental precipitation regimes: increased winter rainfall, increased spring rainfall, and ambient rainfall. Responses to rainfall addition varied widely by age class and species and depended heavily on seasonal timing of the increase. Establishment from seed was rare for all three species and showed little response to water addition, likely due to concomitant changes in the surrounding communities. Production of exotic annual grasses rose markedly following repeated extensions of the rainy season, and while established bunchgrasses benefited despite this change, new plants could not establish into thickening stands of exotic vegetation. In contrast, survival was high for transplanted plugs and tussocks of all three species across all three rainfall treatments, suggesting that plugs and tussocks can survive a wide range of climatic conditions and high local densities of exotic annual grasses. Restoration approaches focused on these life stages may be most robust to changing climate. Transplanted individuals can provide a continual source of propagules to surrounding areas that then recruit during years in which conditions in the physical and biological environment are amenable to seedling establishment.
41424286|The hybrid combination Cowania mexicana var. stansburiana x Purshia glandulosa has been observed at two locations in Inyo Co., California. Morphological intermediacy, reduced fertility, and the addition of species-specific flavonoids document hybridization in the narrow altitudinal zone of the species' overlap at these localities. A unique aspect of this study is that leaf flavonoid complements of the two species and hybrids are the same whereas petal flavonoid complements are different subsets of the leaf flavonoid constituents. The discovery of this hybrid documents the third possible hybrid combination among three taxa (including P. tridentata) that are currently classified within two genera and magnifies the question of the logic of this classification.
41426263|Regeneration of oaks on California's 3.0 million hectares of hardwood rangelands has been identified as a critical factor affecting the sustainability of this important source of biological diversity in the state. A survey of oak seedling and sapling regeneration was carried out in the southern Sierra Nevada region of the state on 192 sample plots. Logit regression analysis was carried out on vegetation and site factors to predict the probability of finding any seedling (trees less than 0.3 m in height) or sapling (trees between 0.3 and 3.0 m in height) oak regeneration on sample plots. Oak regeneration probability relationships were derived for Quercus douglasii Hook. & Arn. (blue oak), Q. wislizeni A. DC. (interior live oak) and Q. crysolepis Liebm. (canyon live oak), and Q. kelloggii Newb. (black oak). Tree cover was found to be positively correlated with the probability of seedling and sapling regeneration for all three species groups. Grazing was negatively correlated with Q. douglasii seedling probability, and nonsignificant with Q. douglasii saplings or the other species evaluated. Solar radiation levels derived from site slope and aspect were significant factors for Q. kelloggii, Q. wislizeni, and Q. crysolepis seedlings. Elevation was positively related to the probability of finding Q. douglasii seedlings. These relationships can be used by managers of hardwood rangelands to prioritize restoration efforts, grazing management, and other site treatments to ensure the long-term sustainability of the hardwood rangeland resource.
41424407|Three local, polyploid taxa of Eryngium, E. constancei, E. mathiasiae, and E. aristulatum var. hooveri, are described from California.
41425665|Although widespread throughout the interior foothills of central and northern California, Pinus sabiniana Dougl. has a disjunct distribution in the southern Sierra Nevada, where it is abundant in the Kern River and Tule River watersheds, but is absent from the Kaweah River watershed between 36 and 37 N. This gap in the pine's distribution has long intrigued botanists and ecologists and has elicited a number of hypotheses for this anomalous biogeographical pattern. Here we propose a new hypothesis that couples unique features of the southern Sierra Nevada topography with unique features of P. sabiniana's response to fire. This low elevation pine is widely distributed in grassland and chaparral, and where it occurs with the latter vegetation, it is extremely vulnerable to high intensity wildfires. Under these conditions, meta-populations persist over time in refugia in riparian areas and during fire-free intervals expand outwards re-colonizing shrubland dominated slopes. The lack of such refugia in the very steep and narrow Kaweah drainage is hypothesized to explain the absence of this pine in that area. To test this hypothesis, we studied the age-structure of P. sabiniana in the area of the 2002 McNally Fire in the Kern drainage to compare age distributions of trees and tree skeletons along a gradient up slope away from riparian zones. Maximum age declined significantly with distance from riparian areas, suggesting that past fires have eliminated P. sabiniana from the slopes and that the pines have re-colonized during fire-free intervals. The relationship was strongest when our data were restricted to areas that had a previously recorded fire. We also found that the riparian areas in the Kern drainage were significantly wider than those in Kaweah drainage, suggesting that fewer such fire refugia exist in the latter watershed, and providing an explanation for the lack of P. sabiniana between 36 and 37.
43288625|The geographic range of tanoak, Notholithocarpus denstflorus (Hook. & Arn.) Manos, Cannon & S. H. Oh (Fagaceae), encompasses tremendous physiographic variability, diverse plant communities, and complex disturbance regimes (e.g., development, timber harvest, and wildfire) that now also include serious threats posed by the invasive forest pathogen Phytophthora ramorum S. Werres, A.W.A.M. de Cock. Knowing where these disturbance factors interact is critical for developing comprehensive strategies for conserving the abundance, structure, and function of at-risk tanoak communities. In this study, we present a rule-based spatial model of the range-wide threat to tanoak populations from four disturbance factors that were parameterized to encode their additive effects and two-way interactions. Within a GIS, we mapped threats posed by silvicultural activities; disease caused by P. ramorum; human development; and altered fire regimes across the geographic range of tanoak, and we integrated spatially coinciding disturbances to quantify and map the additive and interacting threats to tanoak. We classified the majority of tanoak's range at low risk (3.7 million ha) from disturbance interactions, with smaller areas at intermediate (222,795 ha), and high (10,905 ha) risk. Elevated risk levels resulted from the interaction of disease and silviculture factors over small extents in northern California and southwest Oregon that included parts of Hoopa and Yurok tribal lands. Our results illustrate tanoak populations at risk from these interacting disturbances based on one set of hypothesized relationships. The model can be extended to other species affected by these factors, used as a guide for future research, and is a point of departure for developing a comprehensive understanding of threats to tanoak populations. Identifying the geographic location of disturbance interactions and risks to foundation species such as tanoak is critical for prioritizing and targeting conservation treatments with limited resources.
41425855|Frasera fastigiata and F. umpquaensis are large, long-lived, perennial herbs with hollow stems, whorled leaves, large nectaries hidden by fringed hoods, and synchronized flowering. They differ in flower color and their ranges are disjunct. Some authors have treated them as conspecific due to their overall morphological similarity. The taxa can be distinguished by isozyme band patterns and by morphological traits including corolla color, relative lengths of corolla and calyx, and calyx lobe shape. Both isozyme differences and morphological differences are not completely fixed, but plants with one atypical feature can be identified by their combination of traits. The taxa should be recognized as distinct species.
41424636|Composition and structure are determined for stands of bald hills Quercus garryana (Oregon white oak) woodland in Redwood National Park, California. Seven distinct plant community types are found. Distribution of the three most widespread types is related to moisture, slope position, and fire history: 1) Quercus/Cynosurus (xeric woodlands); 2) Quercus/Dactylis (mesic woodlands); and 3) Quercus/Symphoricarpos (dense, young mesic stands). Four types occupy specific habitats within the park: 4) Ribes/Phacelia (rock outcrops); 5) Arrhenatherum/Sherardia (glades); 6) Quercus/Delphinium (seasonally moist areas within xeric woodlands); and 7) Philadelphus/Cystopteris (stream channels).
41425351|Nickel hyperaccumulation may be associated with increased Ni tolerance for some plant species that grow on serpentine soils. We contrasted the Ni tolerance of three species: a Ni hyperaccumulator (Streptanthus polygaloides A. Gray) endemic to serpentine soil, a congeneric non-hyperaccumulator also endemic to serpentine soil (S. breweri A. Gray), and a species from the same family but not adapted to serpentine soil (Brassica oleracea L.). We assessed Ni tolerance by measuring germination and radicle elongation in test solutions varying in Ni content. By both approaches, Ni tolerance was greatest for the hyperaccumulator, intermediate for the non-hyperaccumulator, and least for the unadapted species. A soil-based test of root elongation, using S. polygaloides and B. oleracea with two serpentine soils and one non-serpentine soil, showed a significant species-by-soil interaction. Root elongation of B. oleracea was inhibited in serpentine soil, whereas S. polygaloides showed reduced root elongation in non-serpentine soil. We concluded that these results are consistent with the hypothesis that Ni hyperaccumulation is a metal tolerance mechanism adopted by some species native to serpentine soils. These results also are consistent with other ecological functions of Ni hyperaccumulation, such as the elemental allelopathy or microsite tolerance hypotheses.
41424797|Amblyolepis, a taxon of Texas and northeastern Mexico, is recognized as a monotypic genus in subtribe Gaillardiinae, possibly most closely related to Hymenoxys. Although chromosome numbers of 2n = 18II, 18II + 1I, 19II, 19II + 1I, and 20II are reported, only one infrageneric taxon (A. seligera) is recognized, because there are no distinguishing morphologic characters that correlate with chromosome number. This taxonomic treatment takes into account all known morphologic, chemical, and cytologie data. Amblyolepis, un taxn que se encuentra de Tejas y en el nordeste de Mxico, es reconocido como un gnero monotpico en la subtribu Gaillardiinae, que est posiblemente relacionada con Hymenoxys. Aunque los nmeros de cromosomas de 2n= 18II, 18II+ 1I, 19II, 19II + 1I, y 20II son reportados, solamente un taxn intragenrico (A. setigera) es reconocido yaque no hay caractersticas morfolgicas que se correlacionen con el nmero de cromosomas. Este tratamiento taxonmico toma en cuenta todos los datos morfolgicos, qumicos y citolgicos conocidos.
41425516|University of Idaho botanist, Louis E Henderson, surveyed central and eastern Idaho in 1895 under the auspices of the U. S. National Herbarium. His unpublished report, plant lists and journals are archived at the Smithsonian Institution, Washington DC, and his collected specimens are in the U. S. National Herbarium (US). Many of his collections, including a number of types, are labeled "Lost River Mts.," and "Salmon River Mts." A close study of his trip itinerary reveals that a number of these collections were made in today's Lemhi Range. Students of Idaho floristics are here made aware of these errors and the circumstances that led to them.
41426298|Ipomopsis longiflora subsp. neomexicana, a new subspecies, is distinguished from subsp. longiflora (Torr.) V. E. Grant and subsp. australis R. A. Fletcher and W. L. Wagner by its annual habit, ovaries with a modal number of 30 ovules, minutely winged seeds, and ellipsoid capsules that are about twice the length of the calyces. Subspecies neomexicana occurs in parts of the Great Basin and Chihuahuan Desert, ranging from southeastern Utah and southern Colorado through eastern Arizona and New Mexico into northern Mexico. The 3 subspecies are self-compatible, strongly self-pollinating, but have flowers that attract hawkmoths.
41425609|The floral biology of Fouquieria splendens (Fouquieriaceae), a drought-deciduous shrub with wandlike branches, was studied in the northern Sonoran Desert. Two different measures of plant size, number of branches long enough to flower (1 m in length) and actual number of reproductive branches, were used to examine the effect of plant size on reproductive output and floral display. Number of flowers and fruits increased with either measure of plant size. Annual flower production ranged from 190 to 6465 per plant and averaged 2553. Annual fruit production ranged from 9 to 1760 per plant and averaged 390. Because some branches long enough to flower did not do so, number of reproductive branches was a stronger predictor of flower production than number of branches  1 m long. Inflorescence size (mean number of flowers per panicle) was not significantly related to plant size (number of flowering branches) in 2002 or 2003; in fact, the range in inflorescence size on certain individual plants was about as wide as the range for the entire sample. Interannual variation in floral parameters was examined by monitoring the same set of branches in two years, one unusually dry, one with nearly normal rain. In 2002, the dry year, panicles were numerous and sparsely flowered; in 2003, the wetter year, panicles were relatively few and much more densely flowered. Although flowers appeared normally abundant in the wetter year, mean number of flowers per branch was in fact 39% lower than in the dry year. Percent fruit set per panicle in 2003 (36%) was more than twice that in 2002 (16%). Even so, average number of fruits per branch did not differ between 2002 and 2003. Evidently flower production on a per-branch basis was high enough in 2002 to compensate for poor fruit set in that year, resulting in about as many fruits as in 2003. La biologa de las flores de Fouquieria splendens (Fouquieriaceas), un arbusto tolerante de sequa con ramas como varitas, fue estudiada en parte norte del desierto sonorense. Dos medidas diferentes del tamao de la planta, el numero de ramas suficiente largas para producir flor ( 1 m del largo) y el numero de las ramas en realidad con flores, fueron usadas para examinar el efecto del tamao de la planta en la produccin reproductora y la exposicin de las flores. El numero de las flores y las frutas aumentaron con ambas medidas del tamao de la planta. La produccin anual de las flores fue entre 190 y 6465 por planta con un promedio de 2553. La produccin anual de las frutas fue entre 9 y 1760 por planta con un promedio de 390. Porque algunas ramas suficiente largas para producir flores no florecieron, el numero de las ramas en realidad con flores fue mejor que el numero de las ramas ms largas de un metro para predecir la produccin total de flores. El tamao de la inflorencia (el numero promedio de las flores por pancula) no fue correlacionado significantemente con el tamao de la planta (como el numero de las ramas con flores) en 2002 o 2003; en realidad, la variedad en el tamao de la inflorencia en ciertas plantas fue ms o menos lo mismo que la de todos de las plantas medidas. La variacin entre aos en los parmetros de las flores fue estudiado por observar el grupo mismo de ramas en dos aos, un ao muy seco, el otro con lluvia casi normal. En 2002, el ao seco, hubo muchas panculas con pocas flores; en 2003, el ao con ms lluvia, hubo menos panculas pero con muchas ms flores por pancula. Aunque las flores parecieron normalmente abundantes en el ao con ms lluvia, el numero promedio de flores por rama en realidad fue 39% menos que en el ao seco. El porcentaje de frutas producidas por pancula en 2003 (36 %) fue ms que doble lo del 2002 (16 %). Sin embargo, el numero promedio de frutas por rama fue diferente entre 2002 y 2003. Obviamente la produccin de flores en la base por rama fue suficiente en 2002 para compensar por la peor produccin de frutas en ese ao, lo que resultar en casi el mismo numero de frutas como en 2003.
41424681|Morphological study of herbarium and living specimens of Leptodactylon from the Pacific Northwest and northern Great Basin indicates that the little-known species Leptodactylon hazeliae Peck is more appropriately treated as a subspecies of L. pungens (Torr.) Rydb. This rare taxon occurs only in the Snake River Canyon of Oregon and Idaho, where it inhabits sheer rock outcrops in Poa-Agropyron-Purshia communities. The relationship of subsp. hazeliae to other species of Leptodactylon is not clear. The subspecies is morphologically intermediate between L. pungens and L. watsonii (A. Gray) Greene, a trait it shares with the recently described L. glabrum Patterson and Yoder-Williams, an epilithic species of northern Nevada and adjacent Idaho. It is speculated that L. glabrum and subsp. hazeliae may have originated from past hybridization events involving L. pungens and L. watsonii.
41424503|Four taxa of Mexican Delphinium are described. A new subsection and two new series are characterized. Also described is a previously unrecognized subspecies of D. bicornutum Hemsley.
41425635|Frond growth and development of Pentagramma triangularis subsp. triangular is was examined in canyon populations in Ventura County, California during the winter growing season of 2003. Fronds developed from emerging croziers to full size within 35 days and reached sexual maturity by 70 days. Frond growth occured in two stages with stipe elongation nearly complete when the crozier began to unfurl, about a week before full maturation of the entire frond. Discernable developmental stages are described as well as their respective ages. Fern growth occurred both prior to and after the study frond monitoring period, indicating multiple growth flushes throughout the growing season, possibly related to rain events. Based on these preliminary results, suggestions are offered for further study.
41425487|The taxonomic status of the western Oregon taxon, Iris tenax var. gormanii (Piper) Foster (Iridaceae), has been in dispute since soon after its description in 1927. It has been considered a distinct species, a variety of I. tenax Wats, and since the 1950's a color form of I. tenax. The status of the taxon was confounded by the extirpation of the only known population in the 1970's. During this study, fieldwork verified a remnant population of I. t. var. gormanii near the original site. A comparative, morphological phenetic study was undertaken of individuals at this site and three I. t. var. tenax sites. Interfertility of the two varieties was tested with in situ intervarietal hand pollination. Morphological data confirmed that I. tenax var. gormanii is distinct from I. t. var. tenax. Intervarictal crossing data found that interfertility between I. t. var. tenax and I. t. var. gormanii is lower than intrafertility indicating that partial reproductive barriers are present. Reproductive barriers are especially strong when I. t. var. gormanii functions as the female indicating that gene flow would be more likely from I. t. var. gormanii into the gene pool of I. t. var. tenax than in the reverse direction.
41424191|Corollas of the subfamily Eschscholzioideae strongly absorb long-wave ultraviolet radiation, which likely makes them attractive as a source of food reward to foraging pollinators. Filled anthers are also absorptive, but they become reflective as they are emptied of pollen. The epidermis of both the corolla and the anthers is composed of elongated prismatic cells that may have a function in ultraviolet absorption.
41426361|We report on growth and survivorship of two cohorts of blue oaks Quercus douglasii Hook. & Arn. (Fagaceae) monitored at Hastings Reservation in Monterey County, California, the first growing in an unprotected old field and measured as seedlings in 1965 and the second planted as acorns in 1985 in several sites differing in their degree of protection from grazing. Growth of all individuals was extremely slow: among those surviving in the first cohort, mean ( SD) height in 2006 was only 76.7  45.0 cm for an average growth rate of 1.8 cm yr, and only one of the original 73 oaks had grown taller than 1.5 m while one was still a seedling 28 cm in height 41 yr after being first marked. Of the second cohort, mean height 21 yr after planting was 54.3  31.4 cm. None of these latter individuals had grown out of the sapling stage while 25% were still seedlings < 30 cm in height. Growth of this second cohort was significantly greater when protected from grazing and when growing in the open rather than in the shade. Although growth was slow, survivorship of oaks first measured in 1965 was high, indicting that individuals can live for decades despite significant grazing pressure. Our results confirm the difficulties of inferring age from size of blue oaks, since individuals just achieving the height at which they are typically cored may be 50 or more years old. They also indicate that regeneration, although very slow, can occur in open oak savannas in California despite significant grazing pressure. Whether the observed amount of regeneration is sufficient for long-term sustainability will require continued monitoring and modeling of oak demography.
41426285|A previously unpublished manuscript written by Willis Linn Jepson in 1938 describes the preparation and value of vegetation mapping as a field exercise in a forest botany course at the University of California at Berkeley. The resultant maps, of different sites in the Oakland-Berkeley hills, not only represent an invaluable baseline for charting vegetation changes since the early 20th century, but also provided the initial impetus for A. E. Wieslander's Vegetation Type Mapping Project of California.
41426250|Tres asociaciones vegetales de clima templado semi-seco del estado de Durango, Mxico, fueron estudiadas con el fin de conocer su estructura y tendencias sucesionales. En cada asociacin se analizaron tres clases de tamao de las especies leosas, determinndose los valores de densidad, frecuencia y cobertura, asi como los ndices de diversidad y equitatividad. Mediante la comparacin entre los valores de cada estrato se aprecian algunas tendencias de cambio en la vegetacin. Aunque los patrones de regeneracin y de mortalidad de las especies estudiadas no son an conocidos, la presente regeneracin de rboles parece insuficiente para reemplazar las poblaciones existentes en dos de las comunidades estudiadas. El bosque de Pinus-Quercus tiende a ser desplazado por matorral de manzanita (Arctostaphylos pungens), mientras que el de Quercus eduardii, ms seco, est siendo substituido por matorral de Dodonaea viscosa. Lo anterior se confirma por la presencia de matorrales adyacentes con escasos relictos de bosque. El incremento de arbustivas est ligado a un avanzado estado de deterioro provocado por tala, sobrepastoreo e incendios. This study was carried out in order to know the structure and to obtain a preliminary understanding of successional trends of three plant associations of temperate semidry climate in the state of Durango, Mexico. Three size classes in each association were sampled. Absolute and relative densities, aerial coverages and frequencies were determined, as well as diversity and equitability. Comparison of the values between each size class provided a projection of the current population trends. Natural patterns of regeneration and mortality of the studied species are still unknown, but the present regeneration and recruitment of trees in two of the communities seem to be insufficient to maintain the woodlands. The Pinus-Quercus woodland is being replaced by manzanita scrub (Arctostaphylos pungens),whereas the drier Quercus eduardii woodland is being replaced by Dodonaea viscosa scrub. Presence of adjacent scrubland with scarce tree relicts confirm the results. Increases of invader shrubs reflects an advanced deterioration due to logging, overgrazing and fires.
41424698|Observations in permanent plots after a 1982 controlled fire in chaparral vegetation in coastal Santa Barbara County, California demonstrate that Carpobrotus edulis, the common introduced ice plant, increased substantially along with other native plants capable of invading disturbed sites such as Salix lasiolepis. Although fire is a natural disturbance, it can favor the spread of invasive exotics when a seed source is available. Controlled burning programs must consider the possibility and risks of invasion by exotics.
41424195|Continued taxonomic and ethnobotanical field work in Chihuahua, Mexico, has enabled the senior author to add three species to the list of Umbelliferae (Apiaceae) known to occur in that state, as compiled by the authors in 1976. One of these, Tauschia allioides, remarkable for its "rachis-leaves," is described. Differential use of the local Tauschia species by the Tarahumara Indians is described.
41424651|Ipomoea wolcottiana is an hermaphroditic tree of the tropical deciduous forest of Mxico. It flowers after leaf drop, but may be highly asynchronous among trees if interrupted by rainfall early in the dry season. Anthesis is nocturnal and nectar secretion is constant until after midday. Insect visitors include sphingid moths and 21 species of bees; few of these have characteristics of effective cross-pollinators. The fragrant flowers present abundant pollen, but the sucrose-rich nectar differs between trees by as much as a factor of three. Significant individual variation also occurs in stamen and style length, and flower weight, but only the latter two are correlated. Pollination experiments show self-incompatibility and some female-sterile trees; the latter result is supported by records of up to four years from marked trees, and is unrelated to floral morphology or nectar volume.
41425757|Plant communities in the southern Coast Range of California form a mosaic with discrete to gradual transitions between multiple vegetation types. To accurately portray this pattern and to quantify the areal coverage of ecotonal space, a new method of mapping vegetation was developed. Vegetation stands were classified and mapped in separate GIS layers to the full extent of their respective suite of indicator species. Since all stands were mapped in this way, the overlap of different communities in the GIS represents ecotonal space. Vegetation mapping was entirely ground-based using a GPS receiver. Vegetation classification followed the Holland and Keil scheme. Eleven plant communities were identified within the 92.6 ha study area. This mapping method revealed that 32% of the total area was ecotonal and that the majority of plant communities exhibited a greater portion of their total area as ecotone than as discrete space. This finding suggests that typical vegetation maps depicting discrete boundaries between all vegetation types may misrepresent a nontrivial proportion of the area mapped. In addition, because ecotones are ecologically significant and important to conservation, the portrayal of transitional space between communities is worth consideration in the future creation of vegetation maps within California.
41424920|Fire intervals were derived from analysis of fire scars on samples taken from 14 redwood (Sequoia sempervirens D. Don (Endl.)) stumps throughout Annadel State Park, California. Samples were obtained from small redwood groves that are isolated within other forest types. Dating before the mid-1800's, mean fire intervals between 6.2 and 23.0 years were found on individual stumps, with single intervals as low as 2 years. Although the sources of these fires are uncertain, fire usage by Native Americans is a plausible explanation given the archeological evidence at Annadel and sparse lightning activity in areas like Annadel near the coast.
41425588|Thirty-four mosses and two liverworts are reported new for the state of Nevada. The moss family Scouleriaceae is new for the state. Genera new for Nevada include: Blindia, Dichodontium, Eucladium, Molendoa, Orthodicranum, Porotrichum, Pterigynandrum, Rhizomniwn, Roellia and Scouleria.
41425694|The patterns of vegetation and soils were documented in an approximately 20 km area of fluvial terraces adjacent to the Santa Ana River in southwestern San Bernardino County, California. Within this area there are three terraces of differing elevations that were last disturbed during major flood events. The oldest terrace surfaces probably were last disturbed during the Agua Mansa flood of 1862, which disturbed or created many current geomorphic features of the Santa Ana River basin. The most recent disturbance of two other terraces was identified based on photographs of flooding events in 1938 and 1969. Principal component analysis identified three assemblages of species whose distribution corresponded to the three terraces that differed in elevation, soil texture, and age since last disturbance by flooding. Canonical correspondence analysis showed that the assemblages identified by PCA were highly correlated with changes in soil texture and organic matter. The most reliable indicator species were Heterotheca sessiltflora and Lepidospartum squamatum for the first assemblage (associated with the lowest terrace, and corresponding to early successional assemblages identified by other researchers); Salvia apiana and Senecio flaccidus for the second assemblage (associated with the intermediate terrace); and Artemisia californica, Opuntia parryi, and Stephanomeria pauciflora for the third assemblage (associated with the highest terrace). Eriastrum densifolium subsp. sanctorum, the rare Santa Ana River Woolly Star, was associated with the earlier phases of succession. The most important soil factor distinguishing these assemblages was the silt/clay content of the soil.
41426155|Polygala rimulicola Steyermark var. mescalerorum Wendt and Todsen (Polygalaceae) is described from the San Andres Mountains in Doa Ana County, New Mexico.
41425345|Using a method that combines information on tree size with growth rates determined from relatively short increment cores, I estimated the ages of several of the largest living Sequoiadendron giganteum (Lindley) Buchholz. Compared to the longest-lived S. giganteum known, which was at least 3266 years old, most of the large sequoias analyzed here were relatively young, with estimated ages of only 1650 to 2150 years. Thus, contrary to common supposition, the largest S. giganteum generally owe their great size to rapid growth, not to exceptional age. However, two of the largest S. giganteum were substantially older, with estimated ages of 2850 and 2890 years. There is a high probability that some S. giganteum living today are older than the oldest S. giganteum yet discovered.
41424758|Encelia densifolia is a desert shrub endemic to a single mountain range in the central western portion of the Baja California peninsula. When dry, its pubescent leaves reflect about as much light as other pubescent Encelia species, such as E. actoni and E. palmed, although not as much as the densely tomentose E. farinosa. When the leaves are wet, their trichomes absorb water, and reflectively is decreased to a level comparable to nearly glabrous Encelia species, such as E. californica and E. frutescens. This response to wetting is likely to be advantageous to the plants; they inhabit a region of summer fogs, where light intensity and air temperature are reduced and relative humidity is increased by the same conditions that reduce leaf reflectance. Encelia densifolia es un arbusto del desierto, endmico a una sola sierra en la comarca occidental del centro de la peninsula de Baja California. Cuando secas, sus hojas pubescentes reflejan casi tanto como otras especies pubescentes de Encelia, tal como E. actoni y E. palmeri, aunque no tanto como la muy tomentosa E. farinosa. Cuando las hojas son mojadas, sus tricomas absorben el agua, y la reflectividad disminue a un nivel anlogo a especies pelonas, tal como E. californica y E. frutescens. Esta respuesta a lo mojando es probable que ser ventajosa a las plantas. Habitan una comarca de nieblas estivales, dnde la intensidad de la luz y la temperatura del aire se reducen y la humedad relativa se aumenta por las mismas condiciones que reducen la reflectividad de las hojas.
41424796|Evolvulus alsinoides and E. arizonicus have historically been difficult to distinguish. Most specimens of these two taxa may be identified by corolla size; all specimens in this region by sepal size. Typification of E. arizonicus is discussed, and a lectotype chosen. The name Ipomoea hirsutula has been a mixed concept applied to two species in publications for a number of years. Proper names of these species (Ipomoea hederacea and I. purpurea), their traits, and ways of distinguishing them are discussed. Evolvulus alsinoides y E. arizonicus historicamente han sido difciles de separar. La mayora de las muestras de herbario de estas dos especies pueden distinguirse por el tamao de la corola. Todas las muestras del sudoueste de los Estados Unidos pueden distinguirse por el tamao de los spalos. Tipificacin de E. arizonicus se discute, y se selecciona un lectotipo. El nombre Ipomoea hirsutula ha sido un concepto mixto que fue aplicado a dos especies en las publicaciones en el pasado. Los nombres correctos para estas dos especies son Ipomoea hederacea y I. purpurea. Se presentan sus caractersticas y los modos de distinguirlas.
41425228|I grew cultures of 14 diverse populations representative of the Mimulus wiensii complex of the Sierra Madre of western Mexico and compared them morphologically, cytologically, and as to their ability to hybridize one with another and with a set of six reference populations to which they might be related. The morphological comparisons indicated that M. wiensii Vickery was more polymorphic and widespread than previously thought. In addition, the comparisons revealed two morphologically clearly distinct, new species. The cytological studies showed M. wiensii to be diploid with n = 16 chromosomes, and the new species to be polyploid with n = 32 chromosomes for the first species and n = 32, 32  , 48  , and 64  chromosomes for the second. The experimental hybridizations demonstrated that the various populations of M. wiensii cross readily with each other but do not cross with the other reference populations or with either of the new species. The two new species do not cross with each other or with any of the reference populations. The first new species is named M. yecorensis sp. nov. for its region of occurrence and the second, M. minutiflorus sp. nov. for its most prominent characteristic. Poblaciones del complejo Mimulus wiensii fueron comparadas con respecto a sus caractersticas morfolgicas, citolgicas, y a sus capacidades de formar hbridos. Las poblaciones de la especie M. wiensii se encontraron tener n = 16 cromosomas y formar hbridos frtiles entre ellos pero non con las otras poblaciones referencia o con M. yecorensis y M. minutiflorus. Las poblaciones de M. wiensii son fenotipicamente ms variables y tienen un rango ms extenso que originalmente supuesto. Mimulus yecorensis sp. nov. se encontr entapetes densos y bajos. Ella posee n = 32 cromosomas y casi nunca form hbridos con otras poblaciones del complejo. Mimulus minutiflorus sp. nov. tiene tallos erguidos, delicados, y tiesos con flores muy pequeas. Ella posee n = 32, 32 , 48 , 64  cromosomas y form solo un hbrido quando cruzado con otras poblaciones del complejo.
41426156|A southern California endemic, Pseudotsuga macrocarpa, has been reported by many authors to occur in the Sierra, San Pedro Mrtir of northwest Baja California. This report started with Sud worth, who perhaps confused the San Felipe Valley east of the Sierra San Pedro Mrtir with that east of the type locality in San Diego County. Despite review of old records, study of aerial photographs, and visits to most likely sites, no authentic records are known. In fact, although the higher mountains south of the International Border are quite mesic, habitats suitable for Pseudotsuga macrocarpa appear to be wanting.
41424621|Stands of Pinus contorta var. murrayana (lodgepole pine) at the edge of many meadows have a tiered appearance due to bands of trees of increasing size class. Factors that might contribute to these waves of encroachment are seed availability and seedling establishment. Seed fall and distribution were monitored on two meadows in Yosemite National Park, California. Approximately 10,000-135,000 seeds/ha were distributed annually across the meadows. This probably represents 2-13% of seeds that fall commonly within lodgepole pine stands. First-year seedlings were estimated to be 550-10,000/ha annually. None of the naturally-established seedlings in the sample plots survived through the third growing season. Thus, waves of encroachment are more likely the result of success in establishment than of inadequate numbers of seeds or short dispersal distance. Nine 26-40 m transects from the meadow edge into the adjacent forest showed distinct periods of encroachment. On the wetter meadow these were 1950-1962 and 1918-1936. A comparison with records of precipitation available since 1907 shows that the two most recent periods of encroachment are associated broadly with periods of lesser precipitation. On the drier meadow, periods of encroachment were less distinct, but occurred during 1948-1973 and 1905-1931. Drier meadows are more conducive to pine establishment and encroachment is influenced less by patterns of precipitation.
41425489|Prosopis glandulosa (Mesquite), an arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) species, is the dominant tree of the Apacherian savanna of southeast Arizona and is characterized by a very deep root system. A corn bioassay was used to examine the mycorrhizal inoculum potential (MIP), or the amount of AM propagules, at 10 cm depth intervals in 1 m deep soil pits adjacent to mesquite trees across two seasons. MIP was found to be lowest in the caliche layer of the soil, increasing above and below this depth. AM spore densities showed a trend of decreasing with depth but there was no discernable trend in AM colonization of mesquite roots. Both MIP and spore densities were higher in the fall than in the spring.
41425830|Todsen's pennyroyal (Hedeoma todsenii R. S. Irving, Lamiaceae) is a federally endangered species from the mountains of south central New Mexico that rarely produces seed. In vitro propagation methods were developed to provide material for cryostorage and for reintroduction, if that becomes necessary. Cultures were initiated from shoot tips taken from the ex situ collection at The Arboretum at Flagstaff, resulting in 12 genetic lines that were maintained on MS medium with 0.1 mg/L BAP and 0.01 mg/L NAA. Tests with other media commonly in use in CREW's Endangered Plant Propagation Program indicated that MS medium with 0.5 mg/L BAP increased shoot production and MS medium with 0.5 mg/L IBA increased root production over the maintenance medium. Other concentrations of IBA tested did not improve rooting, and a pulse of IBA followed by culture on charcoal-containing medium did not increase rooting significantly above the control. Approximately half of the plants moved to soil survived acclimatization, regardless of previous treatments. Survival through cryopreservation averaged 35% with no significant difference between the encapsulation dehydration and encapsulation vitrification procedures, and shoot tips from all 12 lines have been banked in liquid nitrogen for long-term storage. RAPD analyses indicated that there was less diversity among plants that exist in close proximity in situ than among genotypes that are separated by more distance. These propagation, cryopreservation, and genetic analysis protocols are all methods that can be used as tools to provide support for the long-term conservation of this species.
41425639|Lepechinia rossii (Lamiaceae) is described as a new species narrowly endemic to the western Transverse Ranges of southern California. It is a member of section Calycinae, which includes four additional species endemic to California and adjacent Baja California, MexicoL. calycina, L. cardiophylla, L. fragrans, L. ganderiand L. mexicana, an anomalous, and probably unrelated, species from central Mexico. Lepechinia rossii is most readily distinguished from other members of section Calycinae by geniculate inflorescence axes, bent at 6090 angles relative to the subtending stems, and by large, foliaceous inflorescence bracts which are generally equaling or exceeding their adjacent flowers in length, and little reduced distally. At present, two populations are documented, one in the Liebre Mountains (Los Angeles County) and one in the Topatopa Mountains (Ventura County), both occurring in chaparral, on public lands administered by the U. S. Forest Service. Conservation concerns include habitat degradation by off-highway vehicle activity, power line maintenance, petroleum exploration and extraction, and anthropogenic changes in fire frequency. Lepechinia rossii (Lamiaceae) es descrita como una nueva especie con endemismo limitado a la cadena Transverse Ranges (occidental) del Sur de California. Esta especie es un miembro de la seccin Calycinae, la cual incluye cuatro especies adicionales endmicas a California y zonas adyacentes a California en Baja California, MexicoL. calycina, L. cardiophylla, L. fragrans, L. ganderiy L. mexicana, anmalos y probablemente no relacionadas, especies de Mexico central y sur-central. Lepechinia rossii es facilmente diferenciado de los otros miembros de la seccin Calycinae porque sus ejes de la inflorescencia son curvados en un ngulo de 6090 con respecto al tallo y porque las brcteas de la inflorescencia son largas y foliaceas, las cuales son generalmente iguales o exceden en longitud a sus flores adyacentes y porque el tamao de las brcteas a lo largo del eje de la inflorescencia apenas se reduce en longitud. En la actualidad, dos poblaciones son documentadas, una en la Liebre Mountains (Condado de Los Angeles) y la otra en la Topatopa Mountains (Condado de Ventura), ambas se encuentran en chaparrales, sobre terrenos publicos administrados por el Servicio Forestal de los Estados Unidos. Problemas de conservacin incluye degradacin del habitat por actividad todoterrenos, mantenimiento de lineas de electricidad, exploracin y extraccin de petrleo, y cambios antropognicos en la frecuencia de incendios.
41425678|We examined the effect of removing the staminode of the rare Blowout penstemon, Penstemon haydenii, on female reproductive success in a south-central Wyoming population. We found no significant difference in fruit set or in seeds per fruit between flowers with and without staminodes. The most frequent flower visitor, the megachilid bee, Osmia brevis, modified its behavior when visiting flowers without staminodes. In intact flowers, O. brevis collected pollen by straddling the staminode and rubbing its head and thorax across the anthers. In flowers without staminodes, O. brevis, appeared to compensate for the increased distance to the anthers from the corolla floor by simply stretching its legs to make contact with the anthers. The smaller, native generalist sweat bee (Dialictus pruinosus), which commonly collected pollen in intact flowers, appeared disoriented in flowers without staminodes, and frequently left without collecting pollen. Other taxa (e.g., bumblebees, Bombus spp., the masarid wasp Pseudomasaris vespoides), appeared unaffected and plied the flowers without incident. We speculate that the staminode of Blowout penstemon is intermittently vestigial: where O. brevis, bumblebees, and P. vespoides are common, the staminode is of little consequence; where D. pruinosus is the primary pollinator, the staminode is essential to sexual reproduction by the plant.
41425342|The purpose of this study is to list the vascular flora present in Tsegi Canyon, Arizona, and to describe any change in flora that may have happened during the past hundred years. Plants were collected during the years 1994-1997. Three hundred and ten species representing seventy three families are reported to occur within the Tsegi drainage. Three percent of these species are endemic to the Colorado Plateau and twelve percent of the species found are non-native. A change in floristic composition is found to have occurred in the last century, correlated with a shift in habitat types in the canyon. The canyon of the late 1800' s had a slowly moving stream and marshes along a continuous alluvium. The present canyon has a faster moving stream that has eroded much of the alluvium to bedrock. One species, Cymopterus beckii is a new report for Arizona and also is listed as a candidate for rare and endangered species status.
41702395|Mount Washburn, the principal peak in the volcanic Washburn Range, is an important site for both tourism and research in Yellowstone National Park. This paper provides: 1) descriptions of plant community types on Mt. Washburn, 2) biogeographic comparisons of species diversity for several ranges in the North-Central Rockies, and 3) an annotated species list of the alpine vascular flora, including summaries of constancy, local abundance, and preferred habitats. The alpine flora consists of one hundred and twenty-six vascular plant species from seventy-five genera and twenty-eight families. Biogeographic analyses suggest that the flora is depauperate for the region, with relatively low rates of colonization. These results agree with the predictions of the theory of island biogeography for small isolated ecosystems, and emphasize the vulnerability of Washburn to sub-alpine encroachment as the result of climate change.
41424973|Browallia eludens is a new short-lived summer annual species from the Canelo Hills, Santa Cruz County, Arizona, and west-central Chihuahua and southeastern Sonora, Mexico. It belongs in Section Browallia with three of the four other Central and South American species. They share a small corolla with rounded lobes and an uninflated calyx. Browallia eludens is distinguished by its narrow, subsessile leaves, consistently whitish flowers, oversized calyx and larger, distinctively shaped seeds. It occurs primarily in riparian habitats in Madrean Evergreen Woodland in southern Arizona and the northern Sierra Madre Occidental. This is the first report for an indigenous species of the genus Browallia from the United States. Se describe Browallia eludens, sp. nov., anual con ciclo corto en verano, de Canelo Hills, Santa Cruz County, Arizona, y del centro-occidente de Chihuahua y sureste de Sonora, Mxico. Pertenece a la seccin Browallia junto con otras tres de las cuatro especies de Centro y Sudamrica. Comparten una pequea corola con lbulos redondeados y cliz no inflado. Browallia eludens se distingue por sus hojas estrechas, subssiles, flores consistentemente blanquecinas, cliz agrandado y semillas ms grandes con forma distinta. Habita principalmente habitats riparios del bosque de pino y pino-encino del sureste de Arizona y del norte de la Sierra Madre Occidental. Este es el reporte primero del genero Browallia, de los Estados Unidos.
41424882|Chaboissaea is a New World genus of open, marshy meadows that includes four species, three ranging from northwestern Chihuahua to Distrito Federal, Mexico, and one endemic to Jujuy and Salta, Argentina. It is characterized by gray to grayishyellow spikelets with one, two, or occasionally three florets per spikelet, the lower floret perfect and the upper pedicelled floret often staminate or sterile; and a base chromosome number of x = 8. The revision includes a key, descriptions of morphology and anatomy, a hypothesized phylogeny, distribution maps, and illustrations for each species. Chaboissaea atacamensis represents a transfer from Muhlenbergia. A key distinguishing Bealia, Blepharoneuron, Chaboissaea, Muhlenbergia, and Sporobolus is presented. Chaboissaea es un gnero del Nuevo Mundo, de praderas cenagosas, con especies, de las cuales tres se encuentran en Mxico, en la regin del nordeste de Chihuahua hasta el Distrito Federal y una es endmica de Jujuy y Salta, Argentina. El gnero se caracteriza por la presencia de espiguillas grisceas o amarillo cenizo, con uno, dos y ocasionalmente tres flsculos por espiguilla; los flsculos bsales son perfectos y los distales generalmente estaminados o estriles; el gnero tiene un nmero cromosmico bsico x = 8. Esta revisin incluye una clave, descripciones morfolgicas y anatmicas, mapas de distribucin, ilustra cada una de las especies y postula una hiptesis filogentica. Chaboissaea atacamensis es transferida del gnero Muhlenbergia. El presente artculo provee una clave para los gneros Bealia, Blepharoneuron, Chaboissaea, Muhlenbergia y Sporobolus.
41425034|A study of 35 colonies of Cordylanthus maritimus subsp. palustris in salt marshes of Tomales Bay, California, revealed habitat relationships, including patterns of cooccurrence and cover values of associated species, and examined the possible effects of spatial distibution on the occasional failure of annual colonies to appear. The presence of hemiparasitic C. m. subsp. palustris was strongly associated with the presence of Triglochin concinna and Limonium californicum. Covariance of cover values within a large colony of subsp. palustris corroborated the survey results for T. concinna, but was inconclusive for L. californicum. Increased species richness and decreased vegetation height were also valuable predictors of greater subsp. palustris cover. A three-year investigation of biogeographic relationships suggested that annual probability of a colony to appear was influenced predominantly by patch size and C. m. subsp. palustris density rather than by sizes or distances of other nearby colonies or populations. We speculate that this reflects very low probabilities of seed dispersal among C. m. subsp. palustris colonies.
41426261|Arctostaphylos incognita Keeley, Massihi, Delgadillo & Hirales is a new diploid, burl-forming manzanita endemic to rhyolitic soils in the northern coast range of Baja California. The intensely glaucous and glabrous foliage, coupled with highly reduced bracts on nascent panicles, bears remarkable resemblance to that of another Baja California manzanita, A. peninsulares, which is restricted to granitic soils in the interior ranges of the Sierra San Pedro Mrtir and Sierra Jurez. The extreme differences in fruit structure, however, readily distinguish these two species. Unlike the round fruits with leathery pericarp and solid endocarp stones of A. peninsularis, the new A. incognita has depressed fruits with mealy pericarp and separable nutlets, indistinguishable from those of A. glandulosa. Principal components analysis based on 57 phenetic characters showed that the widespread A. glandulosa and A. glauca were clearly separable from the five species endemic to Baja California; A. incognita, A. peninsularis, A. australis, A. bolensis, and A. moranii. Principal components analysis on the endemic species alone showed that A. incognita was closest to A. peninsularis and further analysis showed that A. australis and A. moranii overlapped a great deal in their morphology. Also we report here chromosome numbers for A. incognita (n=13), for the first time for A. australis (n=13), and A. moranii (n=26). Arctostaphylos incognita Keeley, Massihi, Delgadillo & Hirales, es una nueva especie de manzanita diploide que forma nudos y es endmica de las cordilleras costeras del norte de Baja California. Su follje intensamente glauco y glabro, con brcteas reducidas en panculas nacientes, tienen una notable semejanza a A. peninsularis, una especie restringida a las cordilleras interiores de Sierra Jurez y Sierra San Pedro Mrtir. La estructura del fruto en A. incognita es muy diferente a las de A. peninsularis, en cambio frutos depresos y aplanados con pericarpo granuloso y nuecesillas separables son indistinguibles en A. glandulosa. Un anlisis de componentes principales basado en 57 caractres fenticos, nostr claramente una separacin de mayormente endmicas a Baja California; A. incognita, A. peninsularis, A. australis, A. bolensis y A. moranii. Por otra parte, el anlisis de componentes principales de slo las especies endmicas mostraron que A. incognita esta prxima a A. insularis, y A. australis y A. moranii al traslaparse una gran parte de sus caractersticas morfolgicas. Tambin, se reporta el nmero cromosmico de A. incognita (n= 13), A. australis (n= 13), y A. moranii (n = 26).
41425503|New information on the distribution and host range of several mistletoes that commonly parasitize pines (Pinus spp., Pinaceae) in southern Mexico and northern Central America is summarized from field observations and specimen collections made from 19972002. The discovery of a disjunct population of Arceuthobium hawksworthii in Honduras nearly 350 km from the Mountain Pine Ridge of Belize indicates it is probably more widespread than previously believed. In Chiapas, Mexico, A. hondurense does not parasitize Pinus pseudostrobus, even when this pine is growing close to severely infected P. tecunumanii. We found that P. oocarpa is not a principal host of A. aureum subsp. aureum in Guatemala. We are the first to report A. aureum subsp. petersonii on P. maximinoi. Additional populations of A. guatemalense were discovered in western Guatemala and southwestern Chiapas, Mexico. We report A. globosum subsp. randicaule in Chiapas on P. pseudostrobus. We have observed Psittacanthus angustifolius on P. oocarpa in northwestern El Salvador but have not yet observed Psittacanthus schiedeanus on pines in Central America or southern Mexico. Struthanthus deppeanus is uncommon in Honduras and Guatemala but is common in central Chiapas, Mexico where it parasitizes several pine species.
41424894|This report includes: Trifolium buckwestiorum, sp. nov., and taxonomic discussion about California Lathyrus lanszwertii, L. nevadensis, and L. vestitus. Nomenclatural transactions include the combinations: L. lanszwertii var. tracyi, and L. vestitus vars.ochropetalus and alefeldii.
41425438|Mutualistic interactions between natives and non-natives, and between different introduced species, can play an important role in the invasion process. The facilitation of a new introduced species by a previous invader could either accelerate an invasion or exacerbate its impact, providing a positive feedback loop in heavily invaded ecosystems. Open grasslands in Marin County, CA, are being invaded by two closely related, introduced legumes, Cytisus scoparius (Scotch broom) and Genista monspessulana (French broom). These non-clonal shrubs have been shown to be non-autogamous and pollen limited, underscoring the potential importance of pollinators to their fecundity and spread. The flowers of both are fused shut and require forced "tripping" by a pollinator. We measured floral characters and pollen production to make predictions about which species would be most attractive, and most accessible, to bee visitors. Cytisus flowers were an order of magnitude larger and produced four times as many pollen grains, suggesting that they should be more attractive and rewarding than Genista flowers. However, Cytisus flowers also required significantly more force to open, suggesting that less powerful pollinator species might be excluded from visiting. We tested these predictions by quantifying visitation rates and directly observing pollinators at two sites where the invaders co-occur. Consistent with the mechanical assay, pollinators were more successful at accessing flowers of the small-flowered Genista than the large-flowered Cytisus; however, Cytisus was more frequently visited than Genista, suggesting that pollinators preferred the larger and more rewarding species. We did not find evidence to support the prediction that the small-flowered Genista was accessible to a greater diversity of pollinator species. Although introduced from the same native range as the two plant invaders, honey bees (Apis mellifera) were not "better" pollinators than native bumble bees (Bombus vosnesenskii) in terms of effectiveness at tripping flowers or the number of flowers visited per plant. However, Apis was the numerically dominant pollinator at both sites, underscoring the potential conservation implications of local Apis introduction for the spread of noxious weeds in natural ecosystems.
41426169|The contributions of Jack Major and his students to plant ecological research in the Sierra Nevada of California is reviewed.
41424527|Donald Jackson and Mary Lee Spence (1970) proposed that the cannon John Charles Frmont abandoned on 29 January 1844 is to be sought in the Mill Creek Canyon area of the Sierra Nevada, while Ernest Allen Lewis (1981) suggests the site was on an unnamed peak ("Mt. 8422") above West Walker River in the Sweetwater Mountains of northern Mono Co., California. Both suggestions fail to account fully for the descriptive details given in Frmont's 1845 report, especially as they relate to geological, ecological, topographic and vegetational features. We propose that Fremont's men abandoned his twelve-pound howtizer in a cache near the base of a steep hill a short distance north of Cottonwood Meadow along Cottonwood Creek in northwest quarter of Sec. 23, T. 7N., R. 23E. This site is on the western edge of the Sweetwater Mountains in the Toiyabe National Forest.
41426321|Modern pollen assemblages from forty-one sites in the southern California cismontane region are described, which serve as a modern analog reference set for developing Holocene paleoenvironmental reconstructions from fossil pollen sites in the mountains east of Los Angeles and San Diego. The reference assemblages are derived from soil surface samples. The pollen characteristics of the samples are described in detail, organized according to the major vegetation types occurring in the southern California mountains and nearby cismontane foothill regions. The characteristics of the samples in terms of their patterns in multivariate taxon space (using the squared chord distance, SCD) are also described, which demonstrate that that the major vegetation types can be successfully distinguished by their pollen using the SCD, with some overlap across types that share dominant plant taxa. Threshold values of pollen representation and ratios of the pollen proportions of important taxa are shown to be useful refinements to the SCD information to help distinguish between samples from overlapping vegetation types. The overall quality of the sample set is found to be well-suited for the purpose of paleo-reconstruction of past climate and vegetation at regional montane fossil sites.
41424711|Chromosome numbers were obtained from field-collected microsporocytes and root-tip preparations from greenhouse-grown specimens for 25 species of annual Muhlenbergia sensu lato. Nine of these counts are first reports: M. annua (2n=20), M. biloba (n=8), M. eludens (n=20), M. fragilis (n=10), M. pectinata (n=10), M. schmitzii (n=20), M. shepherdii (n=8), M. sinuosa (n=10, 12), and M. tenuissima (n=10). Besides sharing a haploid number of n=8, M. biloba and M. shepherdii also have large chromosomes unlike those of the other species. Both appear to be misplaced in Muhlenbergia: M. biloba is better treated as Bealia mexicana and M. shepherdii probably should be transferred to Blepharoneuron. El nmero de cromosomas de 25 especies de Muhlenbergia sensu lato se obtuvieron de muestras obtenidas de esporcitos recogidos en el campo o de preparaciones de pices de la races de ejemplares cultivados en invernaderos. Se reporta por primera ves el nmero de cromosomas de 9 especies diferentes. Estas son las siguientes: M. annua (2n=20), M. biloba (n=8), M. eludens (2n=20), M. fragilis (n=10), M. pectinata (n=10), M. schmitzii (2n=20), M. shepherdii (n=8), M. sinuosa (n=10, 12), y M. tenuissima (n=10). Muhlenbergia biloba y M. shepherdii se destacan de otras especies al tener un nmero haplode de 8 cromosomas y al tener cromosomas de tamao mayor. Parece ser que ninguna de estas dos ltimas especies pertenecen en el gnero Muhlenbergia'. M. biloba se debe condiderar como Bealia mexicana y M. shepherdii se debe transferir al gnero Blepharoneuron.
41424684|Lomatium shevockii, a low, tufted, acaulescent species, is described from the southern Sierra Nevada, Kern County, California. Although the growth habit is reminiscent of some species of Oreonana and Cymopterus, the new species is clearly a Lomatium, based on morphology and ecology. It appears closely related to Lomatium rigidum, but differs strikingly by its flower color, subcapitate inflorescence, nearly prostrate peduncles, smaller leaves, and subsessile fruit.
41425907|The species Mentzelia thompsonii Glad was published in 1976 based solely on herbarium material, and it is the only species in Mentzelia section Trachyphytum that has not been examined cytogenetically. Here we report that M. thompsonii is diploid (2n = 18), making it the easternmost diploid species in section Trachyphytum and the only one that does not occur in California. The diploid status and edaphic specialization of M. thompsonii suggest that it is a paleoendemic isolated from other diploids in Trachyphytum by specialization during Pleistocene climate change. Our investigations have also uncovered confusion in the literature and herbaria regarding the taxonomy of M. thompsonii and its overall place within Mentzelia. Mentzelia thompsonii has been synonymized with Mentzelia humilis (Urb. & Gilg) J. Darl. (a member of section Bartonid) in several prominent databases and herbaria. To the contrary, our studies reveal that M. thompsonii is distinct from M. humilis; furthermore, as a unique component of Colorado Plateau diversity, it is critical for inferences of biogeographic evolution in section Trachyphytum.
41425448|Given the key role played by biogenic volatile organic compounds (BVOCs) in photochemical smog formation and atmospheric chemistry, it is critical to generate accurate BVOC emission inventories. Assembling such inventories requires reliable characterization of the areal coverage of plant species to quantify the leaf mass of BVOC-emitting vegetation. A recent GIS-based description of vegetation coverage in the natural areas of California is provided by the Gap Analysis Program (GAP) database. We conducted an assessment of this database in Central California through ground-based vegetation surveys to evaluate the use of GAP for developing a BVOC emission inventory for Central California. A modified stratified randomized sampling design was used to select and assess 18 GAP polygons. Quantitative vegetation surveys were conducted along belt transects in polygons dominated by trees and along line transects in polygons dominated by shrubs to determine percent cover of plant species for comparison to GAP data. The species listed by GAP accounted for a range of 088% of the relative cover in the polygons, with a mean of 43%. Of the 76 species listed by GAP for primary, secondary and tertiary assemblages for which data were collected (those species above the survey height), 33 were found to be correctly listed within their respective assemblages, 13 were found to be listed for the wrong assemblage, and 30 were below percentages of co-dominants of any assemblage. In the 18 polygons, a total of 51 additional species not listed by GAP were found to be present in amounts sufficient to consider them as potential co-dominants. Summed over all 18 polygons, BVOC emission indices based on field data were 20% less than those based on GAP, but for individual polygons differences ranged from 100% to more than + 100%.
41425290|Fires have become more frequent in the Mojave Desert since the 1970's, threatening native plants and animals. This study describes how different annual plants facilitate the spread of fire during summer when weather conditions are optimal for fire. Eight annual plant taxa were evaluated: the alien grasses Bromus (B. madritensis L. subsp. rubens (L.) Husnot, B. tectorum L., B. trinii Desv.) and Schismus (S. arabicus Nes, S. barbatus (L.) Thell.), the alien forb Erodium cicutarium (L.) L'Hr, the native grass Vulpia (V. microstachys (Nutt.) Munro, V. octoflora (Walter) Rydb.), the native forbs Amsinckia tessellata A. Gray, Descurainia pinnata (Walter) Britton, and Phacelia tanacetifolia Benth., and other native forbs (119 species combined). Frequency and cover of dead annual plants were measured to describe the composition of fine fuels in summer (7 to 14 July), and compared to measurements of live annual plants in spring (12 April to 11 May) to determine their persistence as fuels after they senesced (summer : spring ratio). These data were collected during 1995 at 34 sites in the central, southern, and western Mojave Desert. Also described were the effects of each annual plant group in facilitating the spread of three 2.25 ha experimental fires conducted in August, 1995. Absolute frequency and cover and summer : spring ratios were highest for Bromus and Schismus, and lowest for native forbs. Alien annual grasses contributed most to the continuity and amount of dead annual plants and to the spread of summer fires. Fire spread rapidly (12 m/min) and continuously across interspaces with Bromus and slowly (1 m/min) and discontinuously with Schismus. No other annual plant group produced sufficient continuous biomass to carry fire across interspaces. Fire management must include the control of alien annual grasses in the Mojave Desert.
41424424|Acacia pacensis Rudd & Carter is described as new from Mxico. It is known thus far only from the vicinity of La Paz, Baja California Sur and the adjacent islands in the Gulf of California, Isla Espritu Santo and Isla Partida Sur.
41425785|We used electrophoretic analysis of isozymes to investigate genetic structure of the Mojave Desert endemic, Yucca brevifolia. To test the hypothesis that, because of geographic isolation, most variation in alele frequencies would be between populations we sampled three subpopulations in each of five distinct populations: Arizona, Joshua Tree, Mojave, Western Mojave, and Utah. Two of nine proteins had isozymes that resolved adequately. One of these, Superoxide dismutase (SOD) was monomorphic. For the other, glucose-6-phosphate isomerase (GPI), five aleles were identified, and the three most common aleles were present in all populations sampled. For GPI, alele frequencies differed significantly between all five populations, as well as between subpopulations in both the Joshua Tree and Arizona populations. We also tested the hypothesis that there would be strong localized genetic structure due to the high proportion of recruitment attributed to vegetative reproduction. Based on GPI data from an intensively sampled 1 ha plot, genotypes were randomly distributed, and thus sexual reproduction through outcrossing may be the principal mode of recruitment in Y. brevifolia at this site. This study describes genetic structure within populations of Y. brevifolia based on protein variation at a single locus. Future research, using additional markers (nuclear, cytoplasmic, or both) is necessary to understand the dynamics of gene flow, genetic variation, and recruitment within the species Y brevifolia
41426211|The Muddy Mountains are located 42 km northeast of Las Vegas, Nevada. In this study, the area covered is nearly 1684 km and includes Muddy Mountain, North Muddy Mountain and several small rural communities. The elevation range is from 365 m to 1646 m. A flora of 435 species in 266 genera and 68 families is present in the range. Seventy-six non-indigenous species were collected in rural areas, comprising 17.6% of the total flora. There were no endemic species.
41424834|Native chaparral flora showed a response to late fall prescribed burning similar to the expected effects of a summer or early fall wildfire but with some important differences. Shrub cover was temporarily reduced by burning, but Adenostoma fasciculatum reached preburn cover within three growing seasons. Non-sprouting shrubs recovered more slowly, and repeated prescribed fires would favor A. fasciculatum.Native fire-following herb response to this prescribed fire had similar cover to that expected following wildfire, but species diversity was lower than reported from wildfires.
41425677|Experimental burns involving rare plants can provide important information for managers of those species. This study examined the response to prescribed fire of Ceanothus roderickii, a federally endangered chaparral species endemic to gabbro soils of the Pine Hill Formation in western El Dorado County, California. I conducted a laboratory study of germination cues, a field comparison of germination and survival on burned and unburned plots, and a comparison of seedling survival in burned plot subplots that were protected from vertebrate herbivores by wire exclosures. Seed germination was stimulated by heat (70 or 100 C) followed by a cold treatment. Burned plots contained 22-fold more seedlings than unburned plots, and seedling survival was significantly greater on burned plots. Exclosures significantly increased seedling survival on burned plots by 2 yr postfire. Plants on burned plots began to bloom and to branch layer (root at the nodes) by the sixth year postfire, with larger plants producing more fruits and being more likely to branch layer. I concluded that C. roderickii was similar to other species in the subgenus Cerastes in its obligate-seeding response to fire. However, its ability to branch layer enabled C. roderickii to increase plant density in burned plots, and thus continue postfire population recovery, long after fire-stimulated seedling establishment ceased. Branch layering by C. roderickii allows a postfire recovery pathway that is unique among species of obligate seeding Ceanothus studied to date.
41425046|Gap Analysis is a method of conservation risk assessment that evaluates the protection status of plant communities, animal species and vertebrate species richness by overlay of biological distribution data on a map of existing biological reserves.The National Biological Service has undertaken a national Gap Analysis that is being conducted by individual states but that will eventually produce regional and national assessments. Given California's size and complexity, we are conducting separate Gap Analyses for each of the state's 10 ecological regions, as delineated in The Jepson Manual Here we summarize our findings on the distribution of plant communities and dominant plant species in the Southwestern Region of California, exclusive of the Channel Islands. We tabulate and discuss regional distribution patterns, management status and patterns of land ownership for 76 dominant woody species and 62 natural communities. Nineteen of 62 mapped communities appear to be at risk, as determined by their poor representation in existing reserves, parks or wilderness areas. Communities restricted largely to the lower elevations, such as non-native grasslands and coastal sage scrub types, are clearly at considerable risk. A majority of the lands at these elevations have already been converted to agricultural or urban uses and most of the remaining lands are threatened with future urbanization. Areas that appear to be of highest priority for conservation action based on agreement between our analysis and a recent assessment by The Nature Conservancy include the Santa Margarita River, San Mateo Creek, Miramar Mesa, Santa Clara floodplain near Fillmore, Sespe and Piru Canyons, and Tejon Pass.
41424217|Wildfires burned stands of Pinus coulteri on Mt. Diablo, in west-central California, in 1931 and 1977. Trees in woodland vegetation survived the earlier burn but were largely destroyed by the more recent fire, perhaps because of fuel accumulations associated with fire suppression. Coulter pine in brush vegetation suffered mortality in both years. Reproduction of the trees was high after each burn, and little seeding occurred in brush environments except during years following the fires. Policies of fire suppression that lead to high intensity burns in both woodlands and chaparral seem detrimental to the species.
41425781|The genus Kochia and Bassia with which it has been combined, of Chenopodiaceae tribe Camphorosmeae, were at one time considered to include plants native to Eurasia, Australia, and North America, and included species of both C and C photosynthetic types. This aggregate has been reduced in size by removal of a large group of C Australian genera and species. Because of their intercontinental disjunction, the presence of root sprouting, and the results of recent phylogenetic studies, it appears that the two North American species Kochia americana and K. californica, of C photosynthetic type, should be removed as well, and we designate Neokochia as a new genus for them. In agreement with a study by other authors, comparison of pubescence characters and ploidy levels within K. americana did not give support recognition of the segregate K. vestita.
41425328|Boerhavia traubae (Nyctaginaceae: Nyctagineae; Nyctagininae) is described as a new species from Municipio de Ycora, Sonora, Mexico, in the immediate vicinity of the village of Ycora. It is restricted to mudflow deposits probably of late Miocene age. This delicate annual is distingushed from other species of Boerhavia by its small size, its persistent small bracts that are glabrous except for minute marginal trichomes, its few-flowered subumbellate inflorescences, and by its smooth clvate fruit with sharply acute ridges. It is estimated to be most closely related to B. purpurascens A. Gray and B. wrightii A. Gray. Boerhavia traubae (Nyctaginaceae: Nyctagineae; Nyctagininae) es descrita como una especie nueva de Sonora, Mxico. Esta especie se encuentra en el municipio de Ycora, en los alrededores del pueblo de Ycora. Se encuentra restringida a los depsitos de lodolita del Mioceno o mas tarde. Esta anual delicada se distingue de otras especies de Boerhavia por su tamao pequeo, sus brcteas pequeas, persistentes y glabras excepto por tricomas diminutos en los mrgenes, sus inflorescencias subumbeladas con pocas flores y por sus frutos clavados y lisos, con costillas prominentes agudas. Se estima que los relativos ms cercanos de esta especie son B. purpurascens A. Gray y B. wrightii A. Gray.
41425138|Ant-mediated seed dispersal is unusual for California chaparral shrubs. This study documents dispersal of the elaiosome-bearing seeds of Fremontodendron decumbens by the harvester ant Messor (= Veromessor) andrei. Seeds were released from capsules over a period of ca. 2 mo during the summer, but the timing of release varied between years. Ants were strongly attracted to the elaiosome portion of diaspores rather than the seed portion, and carried elaiosome-bearing seeds up to 12 m from F. decumbens shrubs. Because ant nests never occurred under shrub canopies, seeds were transported from beneath parent shrubs to nests located in gaps in the existing shrub cover. Some seeds (at least 5%) that were taken into ant nests were apparently consumed by ants, 45% were ejected intact and left on nest middens within 65 cm of nest entrances, and the remainder were not found and may have remained within the nests. The seed coat of F. decumbens was greatly (3-fold) thickened near the elaiosome, suggesting an adaptation to discourage ants from consuming seeds. Elaiosomes contained little moisture but significant amounts of fat, protein, and carbohydrates. Each elaiosome contained 8.8% of the total energy content of a diaspore. In energetic terms, the cost to F. decumbens of building elaiosomes was relatively small (an 8% reduction in seed output). Elaiosomes also were consumed by small invertebrates and decomposers, so that elaiosomes were absent from diaspores after 2 mo in the litter layer.
41424683|Croton nubigenus, a new species of cloud forests in northern Nicaragua, belongs to sect. Tiglium and appears most closely related to Mexican species such as C. adspersus, C. tremulifolius, and C. ynesae, as well as C. wilsonii of Jamaica. Croton nubigenus, una nueva especie de los bosques nublados del norte de Nicaragua, pertence a la secc. Tiglium y parece tener afinidades estrechas con algumas especies Mexicanas como C. adspersus, C. tremulifolius, y C. ynesae, incluyendo a C. wilsonii de Jamaica.
41424685|Saxfraga tischii, a new species from the Olympic Mountains of Washington, and Vancouver Island, British Columbia, is described and illustrated. Distinctive features include its dwarf size, persistent chlorophyllous petals, and leaves with relatively aporous spongy mesophyll.
41425226|Meiotic analysis shows that in Eriophyllum nevinii 2n = 19 II, a new base number for the genus, which now has at least six haploid numbers. The haploid numbers are explainable by either descending basic dysploidy accompanied by dysploid increase and decrease at the polyploid level, or descending basic dysploidy only.
41425829|Soil moisture is a key limiting resource in arid and semi-arid environments for woody shrub species. We assessed if three arid communities differed in their level of dry season soil moisture content and if the dominant species in these communities differed in their ability to use soil moisture. Water potential of all of the dominant woody plant species occurring in chaparral, coastal sage, and Mojave Desert communities and soil moisture content of these sites were measured seasonally. Species occurring in the Mojave Desert exhibited the most negative water potentials while the coastal sage community displayed the least negative water potentials. Dry season volumetric soil moisture content of the Mojave Desert site was lowest (7%), the chaparral site was intermediate (10%), and the coastal sage scrub site had the moistest dry season soil (20%). These moisture differences developed even though the coastal sage and chaparral communities both received the same annual rainfall and had similar soil characteristics. Of the three communities, the coastal sage community may be particularly susceptible to invasion by woody shrub species because its soil moisture content would allow for germination and persistence of a wider range of potential invaders. Current differences among sites in numbers of nonnative woody species are consistent with predicted differences in susceptibility to non-native species based on community water use and dry seasonal soil moisture.
41424575|Secondary (old field) succession in Mojave Desert scrub vegetation was studied in 20 abandoned homestead fields in the uplands of the eastern Mojave Desert, California.The fields, which were last plowed between 1913 and 1930, were stratified equally in three vegetation types: creosote bush scrub (1100 m elevation), Joshua tree grassland (1280 and 1430 m), and sagebrush/juniper scrub (1615 m). Cattle grazing has been the only widespread disturbance since the fields were abandoned. Our investigation of cover and size of perennial plants indicated that secondary succession in creosote bush scrub is approaching climax (off-field conditions) within approximately 65 years, but that succession in vegetation at higher elevations may require many more years.
41426333|We present a summary of a database documenting levels of affinity to ultramafic ("serpentine") substrates for taxa in the California flora, USA. We constructed our database through an extensive literature search, expert opinion, field observations, and intensive use of accession records at key herbaria. We developed a semi-quantitative methodology for determining levels of serpentine affinity (strictly endemic, broadly endemic, strong "indicator", etc.) in the California flora. In this contribution, we provide a list of taxa having high affinity to ultramafic/serpentine substrates in California, and present information on rarity, geographic distribution, taxonomy, and lifeform. Of species endemic to California, 12.5% are restricted to ultramafic substrates. Most of these taxa come from a half-dozen plant families, and from only one or two genera within each family. The North Coast and Klamath Ranges support more serpentine endemics than the rest of the State combined. 15% of all plant taxa listed as threatened or endangered in California show some degree of association with ultramafic substrates. Information in our database should prove valuable to efforts in ecology, floristics, biosystematics, conservation, and land management.
41426188|A sharp boundary between mature stands of Ceanothus chaparral and coastal sage scrub was found in the Santa Monica Mountains in coastal southern California. The presence of numerous dead coastal sage scrub species in the understory of the chaparral suggests that the chaparral has been progressively invading the coastal sage scrub during the last several fire cycles.
41425236|Stand age patterns of pinyon woodlands along the lower montane treeline ecotone (LMTE) in eastern California suggest that prior to European settlement, woodlands were very open (41 trees/ha) and were mostly restricted to xeric topographic settings with shallow, coarse-textured soils. Since European settlement in about 1861, pinyon woodlands have rapidly increased in density, expanded downslope, and invaded more mesic topographic sites.
41424807|Erigeron wilkenii (section Spathifolium), a new species from Dinosaur National Monument in western Colorado, is morphologically similar, and probably related, to E. tener A. Gray and E. cronquistii Maguire. In regional floras the species might also key to the somewhat similar E. matophyllus or to the distantly related E.kachinensis and E. eatonii.
41425063|Non-native invasive plant species continue to threaten the persistence of native plant species and communities in California. Progress toward the control of non-native invasive species can only be made through the combined consideration of ecological and political solutions. These solutions require greater cooperative effort between the academic and lay botanical communities toward understanding the specific impacts and habitat requirements of invaders on a per species basis. Only thorough ecological understanding will lead to the effective implementation of habitat management plans that discourage invaders and encourage the proliferation of native species. Although these recommendations are long-standing, applied and theoretical research on invasive plant species, their habitat requirements and ecological impacts, remains low. Until more data can be gathered and disseminated, the interim solution of local invasive species removal is essential in controlling nascent and potentially aggressive populations. Effective control measures must be combined with the continued education of governmental agencies, horticultural organizations, lobbying groups, and the gardening public regarding the importance of discouraging the use of invasive exotic species for horticultural or land management purposes.
41424216|A new species, O. purpurascens, is described from California. A chromosome number of n = 11 is reported for each of the three species of the genus. Observations are recorded on the adaptation of the life cycle to conditions of heavy snowfall and the unique mode of seed dispersal. Comments on generic relationship and a key to the species conclude the paper.
41425386|The Eschscholzia californica Cham, growing in the Ben Lomond sand hills in the Santa Cruz mountains appears different from other populations in the surrounding areas. To quantify these differences, populations in coastal, sand hills, and serpentine soils were compared. Phenotypic data were collected from the field in 1998 and 1999. A common garden experiment was also performed. Differences in torus rim width, flower color, flower number, and leaf coloration were examined in both the field and the common garden. The sand hills population was different from both the coastal and the serpentine populations for leaf coloration. Population differentiation occurred among all three sites for at least some of the floral characters examined. The common garden experiment indicates that some of the differences among the populations are phenotypically stable.
41425278|We used allozymes to compare the population genetic structure of Taraxacum californicum Munz & I. M. Johnston, an outcrossing endemic of the San Bernardino Mountains of California, to that of its widespread weedy relative, T. officinale Wigg. (sensu lato), an obligate apomict. The average number of allozyme phenotypes per population of the endemic was six times that of the widespread species. The endemic had about twice as much genotypic diversity (estimated by D) per population than the widespread species, and that diversity was distributed much more evenly per population than in the widespread species. Both species had about the same level of average interpopulation differentiation. For this pair of related species, breeding system apparently plays a more important role than endemism in determining population genetic structure.
41425166|Pinyon-juniper woodlands (Pinus monophylla, Juniperus californica, J. occidentalis) of the San Bernardino Mountains were examined for modern and historical fire patterns, post-fire succession, and changes in mature woodlands under 20th century fire suppression management. Thirty-eight burns consisting mostly of high intensity canopy fires were identified, giving an estimated fire rotation period of 480 years.Burns were primarily colonized by Great Basin sage-scrub (Purshia tridentata, Artemisia tridentata, Chrysothamnus nauseosus) at higher elevations (>2000 m), and a mix of California desert chaparral (Ceanothus greggii, Fremontodendron californicum) and Great Basin sage-scrub at lower elevations (<2000 m). Chronosequence sampling shows that conifer species were absent on all burns 18 years. Shrubs increased in cover and density for 3050 years, and were joined by P. monophylla recruits 2540 years after fire. Mature shrubs acting as nurse plants appear to aid in the re-establishment of P. monophylla by providing a favorable microclimate for seedling survival and early growth. After 50 years, pinyon-juniper woodland development was phased with a declining shrub layer, ultimately leading to the return of a mature woodland at 100150 years. Replication of the 19291935 California Vegetation Type Map survey shows only minor changes in this forest type under 20th century fire suppression management.
41425365|Seed germination requirements in the California chaparral have been described mainly from freshly collected seed. However, uncertainties remain because the behavior of seeds in the soil can differ. I studied germination of the seed bank in long-unburned stands of maritime chaparral in central coastal California. I quantified seedlings emerging from soil samples provided with appropriate temperature and moisture conditions following 1) no other treatment, 2) a heat treatment to optimize germination of heat-stimulated species, 3) the same heat with the addition of charred wood, and 4) the burning of chaparral stands prior to collection of samples. I compared germination in these treatments with seedling emergence in the field following fire. I also collected and divided samples into 0-2.5 and 2.5-7.5 cm depth fractions to evaluate abundance of seed at the surface and depth before and after fire. Seed of one annual had reduced germination following the heat treatment. Seeds of all other species common enough to evaluate statistically were heat tolerant. However, because seeds were found to be mostly near the surface, there was considerable mortality with fire. Moreover, seedling populations in the field only accounted for a fraction of the seed bank that survived fire, and seventeen species that germinated in samples did not germinate and/or emerge in the field. Most species' germination and emergence was influenced in some way by heat and/or charate. Germination of two Ceanothus was dependent on heat. Adenostoma fasciculatum Hook. & Arn., Arctostaphylos purissima P. Wells, and two annuals had germination that was enhanced by heat and enhanced further when charate was added. Despite the importance of fire effects, there were no short-lived species having entirely fire-dependent germination. Germination and/or emergence of 3 species was negatively affected by charate. These germinated sparingly or not at all after fire.
43288620|Invasive plant pathogens are often recognized as serious threats to the maintenance of biodiversity affecting both structure and function of ecosystems. Here, we investigate the potential impact of the invasive pathogen Phytophthora ramorum Werres, de Cock & Man in't Veld by using physical girdling of tanoak, Notholithocarpus densiflorus (Hook. & Arn.) Manos, Cannon & S. H. Oh (Fagaceae), as a surrogate for the disease and to test for changes on the hyphal abundance of ectomycorrhizal fungi. In this study, the flow of phloem to the roots of girdled trees was severed by cutting two narrow incisions (about 10 cm distant) through the inner bark around the circumference of the stem of each tree (fullygirdled), or by cutting two narrow incisions half of the circumference of the tree (half-girdled), to compare with untreated (non-girdled) trees. The hyphal abundance of two common and ecologically important ectomycorrhizal genera (Cenococcum and Tricholomd) was estimated from the roots and surrounding soil using real-time PCR quantification (TaqMan) assay. A significant decrease in the hyphal abundance from soil was observed in girdled tree plots. In contrast, no similar decrease in the root hyphal abundance was observed. Ectomycorrhizal fungi have a major impact on ecosystem function through their control over decomposition, nutrient acquisition, and mobilization and regulation of succession in plant communities. Given their important function, the decline in EM abundance of tanoak infected by P. ramorum will likely disrupt the function and structure of these forests.
41425066|In this paper a plan is outlined for the long-term development of an electronic, network-accessible Floristic Information System for California Tracheophytes (FISCT). FISCT is both an extension and an application of the Specimen Management System for California Herbaria (SMASCH), and will serve as an interface between SMASCH and future, electronic versions of The Jepson Manual. It is an extension of SMASCH in the sense that its initial development is occurring within the SMASCH project at UC Berkeley, in conjunction with efforts to providethrough the construction of electronic, multiple-entry keysidentifications of California plant material to be included in the SMASCH database. In the future, development of MEKA keys for FISCT will be undertaken mostly by contributors to The Jepson Manual, in connection with their efforts to annotate specimens belonging to and revise treatments of the groups for which they are authors. Thus, FISCT will comprise MEKA keys to the taxa of vascular plants occurring without cultivation in California, and eventually will include for each, via electronic versions of The Jepson Manual, dichotomous keys, morphological as well as ecological descriptions, and digitized illustrations. FISCT is an application of SMASCH in that it will rely on that system for accessionlevel data, including but not limited to nomenclatural histories, the citation of relevant literature, elevational ranges and geographic distributions. Ultimately, each accession record in the SMASCH database will be connected by its geographic coordinates to digitized maps of California, enabling nearly instantaneous display of distributions as well as checklists, based on whatever annotations users wish to specify. FISCT will serve as an interface between SMASCH and The Jepson Manual once the latter is put into machine-readable form and connected electronically to the SMASCH database.
41425611|The California chaparral community has a rich flora of species with different mechanisms for cuing germination to postfire conditions. Here we report further germination experiments that elucidate the response of several widespread shrub species whose germination response was not clear and include other species from the Sierra Nevada, which have not previously been included in germination studies. The shrubs Adenostoma fasciculatum and Eriodictyon crassifolium and the postfire annual Mentzelia dispersa exhibited highly significant germination in response to smoke treatments, with some enhanced germination in response to heating as well. The shrubs Fremontodendron californicum and Malacothamnus fremontii were stimulated only by heat-shock treatments. Seeds buried in the soil for one year exhibited substantially higher germination for controls and most treatments. In the case of two postfire annuals, Mimulus bolanderi and M. gracilipes, germination of fresh seed was significantly greater with smoke or heating but after soil storage, over two-thirds of the control seeds germinated and treatment effects were not significant.These two annuals are generally restricted to postfire conditions and it is suggested that control germination of soil-stored seed may be a light-response (which was not tested here) as previously reported for another chaparral species in that genus.
41424226|Consideration of morphological similarities and differences suggests that the most recent addition to Sanvitalia should be transferred to Zinnia. These considerations together with taxonomic synopses of Sanvitalia and Zinnia sect. Mendezia, including keys, revised morphological circumscriptions, and updated geographic distributions, are abstracted.
41424640|Diameter distributions of Acacia smallii Isley were examined in the South Texas Plains Region in a series of successional communities ranging in age from 15 yr to mature stands > 150 yr. In the 15 yr stand, all individuals were in the sapling stage and the size class distribution was non-normal and positively skewed. Mid-successional and older woodland communities had distributions that approached normal curves. Mean live basal area of A. smallii increased in stands up to 25-29 yr, and then declined. There was no recruitment of A. smallii in stands 19 yr or older. The mean number of stems per plant increased and then decreased in the progression from younger to older stands. Dead stems increased from zero in the 15 yr stand to 66% of the A. smallii density in the 33 yr stands. Of the total A. smallii basal area, ca. 70% was dead tissue in the 33 yr stands. No individuals of A. smallii were present in the mature forest community. Possible cause of this lack of A. smallii recruitment was the low light environment caused by canopy closure. Demographic analyses of A. smallii diameter distributions suggest it is an early successional species.
41425852|Knowledge gaps regarding the greenhouse propagation of rare, fire-adapted plant species can impede community level conservation efforts that require fire and active revegetation as management tools. Ericameria fasciculata is a rare shrub endemic to the maritime chaparral community of the central California coast and a listed species of concern. Prescribed burning is actively used in maritime chaparral to maintain community composition and conserve several species of concern with known affinities for fire-related conditions. No study has investigated the seed viability and germination requirements for E. fasciculata. The goal of this study was to ascertain the (1) greenhouse propagation potential of E. fasciculata for planned restoration efforts and (2) to determine if fire-related conditions inhibit or promote E. fasciculata germination. Seed dissection and viability testing indicated that a large percentage of seed were empty or inviable. A greenhouse study examined the potential for firerelated germination cues from heating, light, and charate. Heating and charate had negative effects on seed germination. The combination of heating and charate treatments were particularly lethal. Exposure to light or the addition of GA had no influence on germination rates. Results suggest that seed germination of E. fasciculata is inhibited by fire and, therefore, this species is dependent on seedling establishment between fire events.
41424896|Three new species of Stylocline are described and illustrated, bringing the number of species in this previously unrevised genus to seven. A key to the genus is provided.Stylocline masonii and S. citroleum are closely related to S. psilocarphoides and S.gnaphaloides, respectively, and are rare taxa of west-central California that were last collected in 1971 and 1935, respectively. Stylocline citroleum appears nearly restricted to oil-producing areas now highly disturbed; it may be extinct. Its character states suggest an origin via hybridization involving S. gnaphaloides and a Filago species.Stylocline masonii was previously identified as S. gnaphaloides by collectors, but appears instead to be a parapatric derivative of S. psilocarphoides. Stylocline intertexta combines character states, and may be a hybrid derivative, of S. psilocarphoides and S. micropoides, and has been the source of previous taxonomic confusion. It is found almost throughout the Mojave Desert, where the putative parents are sympatric. Both putative hybrid derivatives appear morphologically uniform and independently reproducing, and are thus treated as species. Stylocline species probably are almost obligately geitonogamous, insuring that any viable products of rare hybrid events would immediately be both isolated from their parents and capable of reproducing independently.
41425629|The Claytonia sibirica complex, including C. sibirica and C. palustris, exhibits considerable morphological variation that encompasses ecological diversity over a wide geographic range. Shoots are basically rhizomatous in the complex and least specialized in C. sibirica var. sibirica. Claytonia sibirica var. bulbillifera, a serpentine endemic of southern Oregon and northern California, forms succulent, storage scale leaves distal to its foliage leaves each growing season. These scale leaves, which consist primarily of leaf base, are generally lacking in other members of the sibirica complex and give the shoot systems of C. sibirica var. bulbillifera a bulb morphology. Claytonia palustris, like C. sibirica var. sibirica, forms an apically swollen rhizome, but differs in its habit by forming renewal shoots, born in the axils of the basal leaves, at the ends of plagiotropic, single long internodes.
41424328|Acacia kelloggiana Carter & Rudd is described from Baja California Sur, Mexico. To date it is known only from Cerro Giganta at the northern end of Sierra de la Giganta and from Sierra de las Palmas, the next range to the north, a distribution from 26 O8' to 27N.
41426186|Iostephane comprises four Mexican species, including Iostephane madrensis (S. Wats.) Strother (=Helianthella madrensis, the type of Pionocarpus S. F. Blake). The species are clearly allied with members of Heliantheae but without an obvious nearest relative.
41426210|The Richvale Vernal Pools site in the Sacramento Valley of northern California is a 32.4 hectare grassland with 120 vernal pools of varying sizes occurring on its alluvial soils. The flora contains 45 families, 131 genera and 184 species of vascular plants, all flowering plants except for two. Annuals comprise 74.5% of the species. As is typical of annual grasslands in lowland California, a portion of the flora consists of introduced plants: the flora occurring in vernal pools is 93% natives, while the grassland matrix between pools is 67% natives. The largest family, Poaceae, contributes the most nonnatives (i.e., 22 introduced, 6 native grasses). Asteraceae is also well represented, but mainly by natives (5 introduced, 18 native). Richvale Vernal Pools is important as a diverse remnant of grassland/vernal pool ecosystems in a region almost entirely cultivated in rice.
41424592|Chromosome numbers, mostly from microsporocytes, were obtained from greenhouse-or garden-grown seedlings or transplants. Chromosome numbers of In = 7II were found in Eriophyllum nubigenum and in E. nubigenum var. congdonii, and of In = 811 in varieties and intermediates of the E. lanatum complex: croceum, gran diflorum, hallii, integrifolium, and obovatum. In one population of E. lanatum var. integrifolium and in a population intermediate between vars. achillaeoides and arachnoideum, 2n = ca. 16II. Root tip counts in another population of var. integrifolium and in two populations of var. leucophyllum showed that 2n = 16. The counts for E. nubigenum and E. lanatum var. hallii are first reports, the others supplement previous reports.
41425670|A new species of Hesperolinon is described that is distinguished by its morphology, particularly its three carpels and styles, dichasial inflorescence, and certain petal characteristics. It is a serpentine endemic and may be related to Hesperolinon bicarpellatum.
41424770|Studies of the distribution, edaphic restriction, cytology, and morphology of Phacelia capitata were undertaken to assess the relationship of the species within the Phacelia magellanica polyploid complex. Phacelia capitata is restricted to serpentine or related substrates in Coos, Douglas, and Jackson counties in southwestern Oregon.Chromosome counts of n=11, the base number for the complex, were obtained from 19 of 20 populations sampled. Two populations contained tetraploid (n=22) individuals, one of these being a mixed population of diploids and tetraploids. Morphological studies uphold the distinctiveness of P. capitata at the diploid level. The origin of the tetraploids is problematic, but some specimens suggest that P. capitata has hybridized in the past with P. heterophylla ssp. virgata and plants resembling P.hastata. Owing to their scarcity and geographic restriction these hybridization events appear to have been recent, and they do not challenge the status of P. capitata as one of the most morphologically and ecologically distinct members of the P. magellanica complex. The species appears to be an example of an edaphic neoendemic.
41424939|Hymenoxys jamesii is a new species endemic to the Mogollon Plateau of Arizona. Morphologic, cytologie, and chemical data are all consistent with its recognition as a species in Hymenoxys subgenus Picradenia, where it appears to be most similar to the more widespread H. cooperi. Se describe una nueva especie endmica, Hymenoxys jamesii, del Altiplano Mogolln de Arizona. Datos morfolgicos, citolgicos y qumicos son consistentes con reconocimiento de este taxn como una especie de Hymenoxys subgnero Picradenia, adonde se parece mas a H. cooperi, un taxn de mbito geographico amplio.
41425153|A new subspecies of Lewisia kelloggii K. Brandegee is described: ssp. hutchisonii from Sierra Co., California.
41425015|Mortality, epicormic sprouting, basal sprouting, and fire scar formation were evaluated in 148 tagged oak trees in a blue oak woodland in Sequoia National Park, California, for two years after a severe ground fire. Fire-caused mortality was low, 6% in Quercus douglasii and 11% in Quercus wislizenii. Epicormic sprouts developed in 65% of Q. douglasii and were most frequent in trees with more than 50% of the crown scorched. Quercus wislizenii showed less epicormic sprouting but developed basal sprouts more frequently. New fire scars developed on a majority of the Q.douglasii trees, even in areas of low fire intensity. Despite the severity of the fire, Q.douglasii crown recovery was almost complete within two years of the fire. Quercus wislizenii was reduced in importance on the site but will regain in canopy cover as basal sprouts develop from shrub form into trees.
41424422|In California annual grasslands, flowering and seed set occur during spring when soil water conditions change rapidly due to increased plant growth, high evapotranspiration, and infrequent rainfall. This study simulated short drought periods and an early onset of summer drought to determine possible drought effects on seed production and population carry-over of Bromus mollis and Avena barbata. Drought treatments diminished seed production, but some germinable seeds were produced under severe conditions. Drought effects carried over to the next generation because stressed plants produced smaller seeds that produced smaller seedlings.
41424411|All woody and succulent vegetation in the arid Alabama Hills region was sampled, using 24 0.07 ha plots regularly placed over an area of 80 km. Density and canopy volume were measured and the data treated by polar ordination. Intensity of grazing, geologic substrate, and topographic roughness were environmental features that correlated with local variation in the regional vegetation type. Overall, the vegetation is transitional between Great Basin sagebrush steppe and Mojave Desert creosote bush scrub. It is similar to the Grayia-Lycium community that has been described for (and thought to be restricted to) southern Nevada by Beatley (1975), except that Atriplex polycarpa, Eriogonum fasciculatum subsp. polifolium, and Haplopappus cooperi are additional codominants. The senior author anticipates repeated sampling on these permanently located plots every 5 years.
41425916|Fir dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium abietinum, Viscaceae) is a common parasite of California white fir (Abies lowiana) and red fir (Abies magnified) in California. Based on its host specificity, fir dwarf mistletoe consists of two special forms: A. abietinum formae specialis concoloris on California white fir and A. abietinum f. sp. magnificae on red fir. I sampled 17 populations of each special form in the Sierra Nevada and extreme southern Cascade Mountains (Mt. Lassen area) and completed additional morphological measurements of male and female plants, flowers, and fruits. As reported by previous studies, my results demonstrated that these special forms are morphologically similar. No significant differences were detected between the plant, flower, or fruit dimensions measured. The plant color of white fir and red fir dwarf mistletoe was also similar for both male and female plants, but some plants of red fir dwarf mistletoe are more brown-green than white fir dwarf mistletoe, particularly in the northern end of its geographic range. Based on the results of this study no change in the taxonomic status of the special forms of fir dwarf mistletoe was recommended. El murdago enano del abeto (Arceuthobium abietinum, Viscaceae) es un parsito comn del abeto blanco californiano (Abies lowiana) y del abeto rojo (Abies magnifica) en California. Basado en las especificidades de sus hospederos, el murdago enano del abeto consiste de dos formas especiales: A. abietinum formae specialis concoloris en el abeto blanco californiano y A. abietinum f. sp. magnificae en el abeto rojo. Se muestrearon 17 poblaciones de cada forma especial en la Sierra nevada y en las Cascadas Montaosas extremas del sur (rea de las montaas Lassen) y se completaron mediciones morfolgicas adicionales de plantas femeninas y masculinas, flores y frutos. Como se ha reportado en estudios previos, los resultados demuestran que esas formas especiales son morfolgicamente similares. No se encontraron diferencias significativas entre las dimensiones medidas de la planta, flor o fruto. El color de la planta de ambas formas de murdago enano fue tambin similar para las plantas femeninas y masculinas, pero algunas plantas del murdago enano del abeto rojo son ms caf verdosas que el murdago enano del abeto blanco, particularmente en la parte norte de su rango geogrfico. Basado en los resultados de este estudio, no se recomienda ningn cambio taxonmico en las formas especiales del murdago enano del abeto.
41426131|Early in the growing season, Veratrum californicum Durand, a snowbank plant, displays two morphologies: a "closed" bud-like form and an "open" form with unfolded leaves. This variability enables quantitative assessment of the thermal consequences of the enlarged closed bud that characterized the early growth of these species at the edge of snowbanks. Temperatures at the center of "closed" plants are higher and more stable than leaf temperatures of "open" plants. Though "closed" plants present little leaf area for photosynthetic accumulation, they should realize an enhanced rate of early expansion growth at the expense of reserves through architecturally rather than metabolically generated overtemperature.
41425057|Systematics is the preeminent science of biodiversity. Differences among species, and among natural phylogenetic groupings of species, represent the major legacy of biological diversification on earth. Pressures of development are causing an alarming increase in the rate of species extinction; intelligent decisions concerning the use or preservation of any species hinge on the existence of a fundamental understanding of species boundaries, species origins, and species relationships, making a renaissance in systematics especially timely. Newly developed methods for data gathering and analysis of phylogenetic relationships (i.e., the genealogy of species) position us on the threshold of a deep understanding of the history of the biological world, but too few systematists are being educated to meet the increased demands for phylogenetic research and its integration into conservation biology. We must break down the widely perceived (but false) barrier between "academic" phylogenetic systematic studies and "applied" studies of floristics and plant conservation; species preservation efforts that are carefully focused and justified by phylogenetic criteria will receive much greater public support. Because of its unusual combination of attributes, with large herbaria and botanical garden as well as a number of supporting laboratories located within a major research university, the University of California at Berkeley can make a unique contribution within California (and indeed the western United States) to this process of integration of systematics and conservation through efforts in both research and education.
41426141|Four of the ten species of Campanula that are found in the California Floristic Province are annuals: Campanula angustiflora has wide leaves, small flowers, equatoriallyporate pollen, n = 15, and grows in the North Coast Ranges and in the Santa Cruz Mts; Campanula exigua has narrow leaves, large flowers, pantoporate pollen, n = 17, and grows in the inner South Coast Ranges; Campanula sharsmithiae, described here, also has a large corolla, pantoporate pollen, and n = 17, but has fleshy leaves and opposite bracts that are wider than those of C. exigua and is restricted to steep serpentine talus slopes in the Mt. Hamilton Range; and Campanula griffnii, originally described as C. angustiflora var. exilis but here recognized at the specific level, which has narrow leaves, small flowers, pantoporate pollen and n = 17, and grows in the inner North Coast Ranges and the South Coast Ranges. It is suggested that C. griffinii is closely related to C. exigua. Campanula angustiflora and C. griffinii are predominantly autogamous, an unusual character state for the genus. These are the first annual campanulas reported to have chromosome numbers n = 15 or n = 17. Only one other Campanula, C. americana, which is a virgate annual or biennial found in eastern North America, is known to have pantoporate pollen. Morphological similarities of these taxa to other North American Campanuloideae may be due to convergence; consequently, the relationships of these four species are obscure.
41424296|At Salinas River State Beach, Monterey Bay, California, beach and dune vegetation is relatively undisturbed. Nine zones of vegetation are distinguished along a line inland from the shore: beach, foredune, foredune hollow, mid-dune, mid-dune hollow, and reardune, the last divided into foreslope, crown, leeslope, and inland margin zones. These zones were arrived at through analysis of physiography, plant cover, density, species richness, and changing size of selected species. In general, low plants (such as Carpobrotus aequilaterus, Convolvulus soldanella, and Abronia latifolia with trailing stems, and Artemisia pycnocephala with thick pubescence) are characteristic of the foredunes to mid-dunes. Woody shrubs (such as Haplopappus ericoides, Lupinus chamissonis, and Eriophyllum staechadifolium) along with smaller herbs and subshrubs (such as Dudleya farinosa and Eriogonum latifolium) dominate the mid-dunes through reardunes.
41424833|Fire has long been thought to play an important role in the reproduction of the giant sequoia (Sequoiadendron giganteum). In this 20 year study the efficacy of fire in promoting reproduction and growth are quantified. Findings are reported on growth and survival of seedlings that first developed in 1966 through 1968 after experimental burns in Kings Canyon National Park. Seedlings growing on substrates beneath former burn piles were significantly taller in their later years than those on scarified substrates.Seedlings that grew on substrates that had been beneath piles of burned logs had significantly higher survival rates than did those on all other substrates during the early years of seedling life.
41425833|Pine Hill lies near the center of a gabbrodiorite intrusion in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada mountain range in El Dorado County, CA, USA. We assembled an extensive flora, examined the distribution and associations of vascular plant taxa, and specifically focused on associations of six rare plant taxa. The influence of environmental variables on plant distribution was investigated using a stratified random plot sampling technique and applying canonical correspondence analyses. The site contained over 10% (741 plants) of the flora of the entire state of California including seven rare species. Species segregated into chaparral, oak woodland, and grassland communities. In chaparral and woodland, and on serpentine sites, over 75% of the flora was comprised of native species. The non-serpentine grassland community was dominated by exotic species (64% exotic) and contained no rare species. Shrub and tree cover were the most important biotic factors associated with plant species distribution; serpentine substrate, soil texture, elevation, and degree of disturbance were the most important abiotic factors. Five rare species were restricted to gabbro soils. Consideration of beta diversity contributed little to our understanding of vegetation patterns. Our analyses identified two types of chaparral which we termed "Xeric Seeding" and "Mesic Resprouting" to reflect the environmental conditions and the fire regeneration strategy of the vegetation. Each chaparral type contained different rare species whose regeneration strategies were concordant with chaparral regeneration type.
41424837|An annotated list of the 282 species of Myxomyctes from California was compiled from the existing literature and herbarium records. Two new state records are reported.
41424564|Collinsia parviflora and C. grandiflora are distinguished primarily on the basis of flower size, but intermediate populations are more numerous than either small-or large-flowered populations in coastal British Columbia. Experimental hybridizations demonstrated that populations of all flower sizes are completely interfertile, and all are tetraploid with 2n = 28. Flower size in F hybrids was intermediate between the parents, and the F generation showed a greater range than the F, indicating segregation at several loci. We consider the two taxa to be intergrading varieties of one species, C. parviflora Dougl. ex Lindl. var. parviflora and C. parviflora var. grandiflora (Dougl. ex Lindl.) Ganders & Krause.
41424620|Pinus contorta var. murrayana (lodgepole pine) commonly invades mountain meadows. Studies were made on a wet and a dry meadow in Yosemite National Park, California, to determine differences in meadow habitat as defined by differences in composition and cover of herbaceous vegetation, soil characteristics, and physiography. Site ordination identified species on sites of decreasing moisture content. In both fall and spring, P. contorta seeds were sown on both covered and uncovered plots in each of 12 meadow sites. Germination and survival of seeds were measured for three consecutive years. Invasion of pine was uncommon on both the wetter meadow, dominated by Aster alpigenus, Carex nebraskensis, and Deschampsia caes pitosa, and on the driest sites characterized by Lupinus confertus and Horkelia fusca subsp. capitata. Most invasion occurred on moderately dry sites dominated by Aster occidentalis, Trifolium longipes, and Danthonia californica. Differences in germination from fall and spring seeding were not significant. Depredation by rodents and birds reduced germination and survival on the uncovered seed plots by approximately 50%.
41425356|Eriogonum spectabile, a new species of the subgenus Eucycla, is described from northeastern Plumas County in northeastern California, USA. It differs from the related E. pendulum of northwestern California and adjacent southwestern Oregon in being a shorter, more compact plant with more numerous branches at the base, narrower leaves with the pubescence equally distributed on both surfaces, longer petioles, reduced umbellate inflorescences, broadly campanulate involucres, and densely pubescent flowers with gland-tipped hairs among the silky-white ones. The new species is currently known only in an extremely limited area of glaciated andsite southeast of Lassen Peak.
43289025|Following disturbance, seed pre-treatment is essential for re-establishing many species with low germination rates. However, some seeds, such as those from chaparral plants, do not respond to common horticultural treatments. Instead, methods that mimic chaparral's natural succession cues (e.g., fire) should be used to improve seed germination and restoration success. Fire effects, such as heat, charate, leachate, smoke, and/or liquid smoke, are effective in breaking long-term seed dormancy in many chaparral plants. The challenge is to break seed dormancy in a cost-and timeefficient manner that can be used in large-scale restoration projects. Results of our study show that short-term exposure (10 minutes to one hour) to liquid smoke and/or heat enhances seed germination of Adenostoma fasciculatum Hook. & Arn. (chamise), Ceanothus cuneatus (Hook.) Nutt. (buckbrush), and Salvia mellifera Greene (black sage). Chamise seeds treated with liquid smoke have the greatest percent increase of seed germination odds: 394%, from the control (P < 0.000). Buckbrush seeds treated with liquid smoke and heat have the greatest percent increase of seed germination odds: 953%, from the control (P < 0.000). Black sage seeds treated with heat have the greatest percent increase of seed germination odds: 354%, from the control (P < 0.000). Implementing these procedures in restoration may reduce the seed costs of certain species by nearly 90%.
41426214|The Arizona alpine, 5.18 km, is restricted to the summits of the three highest peaks of the San Francisco Mountain near Flagstaff. Forty-nine vascular species were formerly known for this very southern tundra. Eighty vascular taxa are now known for the Arizona alpine. This study includes and confirms most additions since 1941 and reports as new nineteen taxa.
41424938|Effects of five timber harvest treatments were evaluated in a pine forest after 40 years. Trends are presented for plant cover, frequency, density, and biomass, as well as on use by three herbivores. Tree growth, mortality, and high natural variability reduced differences among treatments over time. Strongest correlations of understory biomass were with litter, tree dominance, and elevation.
41424573|Mistletoe remains from eight species in the genera Arceuthobium and Phoradendron (Viscaceae) have been identified from 53 fossil packrat middens from various areas in the Southwest. Radiocarbon dates on the samples range from 32,000 to 610 yr B.P. Major changes in the ranges of mistletoes occurred at the end of the Late Wisconsin glacial and in the Early Holocene as woodland trees withdrew from the lowlands and desert trees and shrubs expanded. In two cases, Late Wisconsin mistletoes parasitized tree species that are not hosts today.
41425462|Navarretia leucocephala Benth. subsp. diffusa is newly described from numerous populations in a distinctive vernal pool landscape in the Channeled Scablands of Eastern Washington. Its affinities appear closer to subspecies of N. leucocephala in the California floristic province, than subspecies minima, which is the only other member of the TV. leucocephala group known to grow within the range of the Flora of the Pacific Northwest (Hitchcock and Cronquist 1973). The range of subspecies diffusa closely corresponds with the central of three channels of the glacial Spokane Flood events and is segregated from populations of subspecies minima by expansive Palouse loess uplands, where vernal pools are absent. Just as no plants of subspecies diffusa were found outside this central flood channel, no plants of subspecies minima were found within the range of subsp. diffusa. Plants of N. leucocephala subsp. diffusa are easily distinguished from subspecies minima in Washington by the fewer flowers within the much more openly diffuse heads, and by the conspicuously puberulent calices, fewer seeds per capsule, longer corolla lobes and higher filament insertion. It is distinguished from other subspecies by the consistently puberulent calices, low seed number and the relatively simple outer inflorescence bracts.
41413363|A 29-yr (1955-1983) record of fires in Tonto National Forest, Arizona was used to compare fire occurrence in desert and nondesert vegetation. Nondesert fires were more numerous, but desert fires were larger, with the result that the mean area burned per square kilometer per year was similar. This similarity in the size of the area burned probably is not representative of prehistoric conditions, but instead may be a result of more effective fire suppression in nondesert vegetation. I speculate that finer fuels and higher rates of spread may allow desert fires to become larger than nondesert fires before being controlled.
41425460|The genetic structure of Senecio layneae, a rare plant endemic to the fire adapted chaparral in the central foothills of the Sierra Nevada, California, USA, was investigated over the entire known range of the species. Genetic variation was assessed using 63 ISSR and 42 RAPD polymorphic DNA markers. Multivariate analysis differentiated populations from each of three counties and grouped two populations from El Dorado County together. ISSR markers more accurately portrayed population membership patterns than did RAPD markers. A species-wide FST of 0.28 (by AMOVA) and a FST of 0.22 within El Dorado County showed that significant genetic differentiation exists in the species and between local (within 5.5 km) populations. These results argue for maintenance of disturbed openings in the chapparal which this federally listed, threatened species can recolonise after fire, and for the use of local seed sources (within 5.5 km) for re-introduction efforts. Additionally, the preservation of multiple populations is indicated in order to maintain the existing pattern of genetic diversity across the landscape.
41424773|Daphnopsis lagunae, a new species from the highest ridges of the Sierra de la Laguna, Baja California Sur, Mexico, is described. This is a locally restricted species which is the first record for the genus and the family (Thymelaeaceae) for the peninsula of Baja California. Se describe una nueva especie de los picachos de la Sierra de la Laguna, Baja California Sur, Mexico: Daphnopsis lagunae.Se trata de una especie con habitat sumamente restringido, es tambin la nica representante del genero y de la familia (Thymelaeaceae) para la peninsula de Baja California.
41425312|Restoration and revegetation of arid and semi-arid landscapes requires an understanding of the targeted environmental conditions, physiological requirements of the plant species, and horticultural tools available to complete the project. Encelia farinosa Torrey & A. Gray is a shrub widely adapted to desert and coastal sage shrublands. It is often included in seed mixes intended for revegetation of disturbed arid lands. However, the successful establishment of shrubs in wild lands and the ability to grow Encelia farinosa under horticultural conditions has been hampered by poor germination percentages, typically 25%. In this study, we endeavored to establish the source of germination failure and to test methods for increasing germination. We found that nearly half the seeds collected from field sites or donated from a commercial source were not viable. The seed coats were either completely empty or contained embryos and endosperm unresponsive to the metabolic indicator Triphenyl-tetrazolium chloride, indicative of dead tissues. Of the remaining seeds, soaking seeds in gibberellic acid, a well-known germination stimulant, enhanced germination. The ecological significance of such a large number of non-viable seeds is not understood, but for restoration purposes, the data suggests pretreatment with gibberellic acid may increase establishment of genetically mixed stands.
41424225|Subalpine and alpine vegetation from the Enchantment Lakes Basin was analyzed by species classification methods (Q-mode or inverse analysis) to determine groups of species that cooccur. It was possible to make environmental interpretations of these groups consistent with the known habitat preferences of each species within the group, Eleven groups were identified in the subalpine. Three indicate different forest conditions; two indicate wet, open forests; three suggest different rocky, open, low-elevation habitats; and three indicate krummholz habitats. In the alpine 14 groups fall into five categories: one indicates acid soils; three indicate wet to mesic meadows; four indicate seasonally dry meadows at various elevations; three indicate mesic to dry fell-fields; and three indicate xeric fell-fields and talus. Species composition of each group is given. It is concluded that species classification is a useful tool even when not combined with stand classification (R-mode or normal analysis). It enhances the investigator's ability to detect species valuable as indicators and is useful in experimental design.
41425795|Fuel treatments to reduce fire danger are being applied to public lands throughout the western United States, affecting significant acreage at considerable expense. This study compares the short term effects of two fuel treatment methods, shrub mastication and "hand cut, pile, and burn" (HPB), on chaparral communities in southwestern Oregon. Ceanothus cuneatus dominated the study sites where permanent paired plots were established on either side of treatment-control boundaries. Over a two year period, we recorded all vascular plant species within each treatment or control plot, along with an abundance class for each species. The effects of treatment on species composition and abundance of forbs and graminoids, overall as well as by plant trait group, were surprisingly small. Time since treatment, 1 yr or 2 yr, had a stronger effect on species composition than did treatment method. Species abundance and richness were greater in the first year after treatments than in the second year or in controls. In the second year, after both types of treatments, species abundance and richness were reduced, while after mastication treatment, these measures were lower than in control areas. The HPB treatment had a greater effect on plant communities than did mastication, due, at least in part, to the presence of fire rings from burned piles. Compared to their surrounding treated plots, fire rings had greater proportions of both annuals (95% versus 71%) and introduced weeds (35% versus 21%) in the second year after treatment. Ceanothus germination was stimulated in fire rings but also occurred in most plots, including controls. Both types of treated areas had more Ceanothus seedlings than their controls. Short term evidence suggests that the HPB treatment may lead to an increase in weedy and exotic species and the mastication treatment may reduce species diversity. The HPB treatment may also increase native species diversity by allowing fire-cued species to establish. Additional monitoring over time is needed to assess longer term treatment consequences for these northern chaparral communities.
41424835|Suaeda puertopenascoa, a new perennial species endemic to estuarine wetlands in northwestern Sonora, Mexico, belongs to Sect.Heterosperma.Distinctive characteristics include opposite branches and leaves, three flowers per dichasium, perianth lobes that are fused into a basal disk with horizontal thickenings or wings, and large brown seeds averaging 2.5 mm wide. In the vicinity of Puerto Peasco, it grows in low marsh habitats, whereas S. esteroa grows in upper marsh habitats and S. moquinii occurs along the margins of the marsh and in upland sandy habitats and saline-alkali wetlands of the adjacent desert region. Suaeda puertopenascoa, perteneciente a la Seccin Heterosperma, es una nueva especie perenne endmica en la zona de los esteros localizados en el noroeste del estado de Sonora, Mxico. La misma se caracteriza por tener ramas y hojas opuestras, flores tres por dicasio, lbulos del perianto fusionados para formar un disco basal con engrosaduras o alas horizontales, y grandes semillas color cafe (de un promedio de 2.5 mm de ancho). En las cercanas de Puerto Peasco, crece en las partes bajas de las marismas dentro de los esteros, mientras que S. esteroa crece de las partes altas de las marismas y S. moquinii crece en los mrgenes de las marismas y en habitats arenosos y salino-alcalinos de las reas adyacentes a la regin desrtica.
41426364|Silene lemmonii S. Watson (Caryophyllaceae) is a tap-rooted herbaceous perennial that grows in montane habitats throughout California and Oregon. In 1999 and 2000, I studied the pollination biology and mating system of a single S. lemmonii population occurring near Dubakella Mountain in the Trinity National Forest, CA. Although S. lemmonii is self-compatible, individual flowers are strongly protandrous and fruit set rarely resulted from autogamy in both years of the study. Silene lemmonii flowers bloom at night, yet I observed no nocturnal insects visiting flowers in 1999 and visitation by diurnal bees and flies was infrequent during both years of the study. Despite the paucity of visitors, plants exhibited relatively high fruit set (x = 40% in 1999 and  = 61% in 2000). In 2000,1 conducted an experiment to reconcile the occurrence of relatively high fruit set with rare insect visitation. I examined the contribution of insect visitation, autogamy, and jostling-induced geitonogamy (occurring when individual flowers on the same plant brush into one another) to fruit production. I found that fruit and seed production in S. lemmonii was primarily mediated by diurnal and nocturnal insect visits, but jostling-induced geitonogamy contributed to ~ 20% of fruit set. To my knowledge, this is the first study to report jostling-induced geitonogamy and the first to describe the pollination biology of S. lemmonii.
41425343|Historical data collected from five "average" mixed conifer stands, four large mixed conifer stands, and four red fir stands from the central and northern Sierra Nevada by George Sudworth in 1899 were analyzed to determine historic forest structure including diameter distributions, basal areas, and snag and live tree densities. The effects of early logging operations on stand composition and structure is quantified by comparing characteristics of the trees that were harvested versus those unharvested in four mixed conifer stands. Average diameter at breast height (DBH) was 86 cm (34 inches) in the "average" mixed conifer stands, 110 cm (43 inches) in the large mixed conifer stands (this was equal to the average DBH of 8 mixed conifer stands sampled by Sudworth in the southern Sierra Nevada), and 77 cm (30 inches) in the red fir stands for trees greater than 30.5 cm DBH. Shade intolerant tree species dominated the "average" mixed conifer stands, shade intolerant, intermediate, and shade tolerant species were abundant in the large mixed conifer stands, and Abies magnifica Andr. Murray dominated the red fir stands. Mean tree density for the "average" mixed conifer, large mixed conifer, and red fir stands was 229 trees/ha, 235 trees/ha, and 433 trees/ha, respectively. Average tree density was higher in Sudworths southern Sierra Nevada mixed conifer stands when compared to the central and northern Sierra Nevada. Snag density averaged 5/ha in the large mixed conifer stands and 17.5/ha in the red fir stands. Early logging operations removed the majority of the Pinus spp. and Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirbel) France leaving large amounts of Calocedrus decurrens (Torrey) Florin and Abies concolor (Gordon & Glend.) Lindley. Information from this study can assist in the characterization of historic stand structure in these forest types.
41424869|Comparisons of sprouting and nonsprouting, diploid (2n) and tetraploid (4n) Arctostaphylos species revealed that reduced seed set was associated with tetraploidy in addition to the sprouting habit. When sprouting and nonsprouting species were combined, percentage seed set values, measured as seed to ovule ratios, were significantly higher for in species than for 4n species (P < 0.01), but when 2n and 4n species were combined, comparisons between sprouting and nonsprouting species were not significantly different. Sprouting 4n species consistently had the lowest seed set values. These results have important implications for interpretation of comparative life history studies among sprouting and nonsprouting Arctostaphylos species.
41426334|This note addresses the identification and California distribution of Psorothamnus fremontii (A. Gray) Barneby s. 1. and P. arborescens (A. Gray) Barneby s. 1. Both plants are generically known as indigo bush. Psorothamnus fremontii, sometimes called Fremont's indigo bush, can only be distinguished from P. arborescens by analysis of the seed pods, which differ in size, arrangement and exudates of their glands. The distribution of P. fremontii is very limited in California, restricted to the Grapevine Mountains, in Death Valley National Park, near the Nevada border, and the Providence Mountains, California State Recreation Area and nearby Lavic. Psorothamnus arborescens is much more common in California and occurs throughout the Mojave Desert and barely into the Great Basin Desert, from near Mount San Jacinto to the White Mountains.
41424479|Morphological study of living and herbarium specimens of perennial, pedatisect morning-glories reveals that the rare Ipomoea lemmonii A. Gray is best treated as a variety of Ipomoea tenuiloba Torrey. The new combination is made, a description of the species is provided, and the relationship to other species in the group is discussed.
41431654|After a century of fire suppression, prescribed fire and mechanical thinning are widely used to restore mixed-conifer forests in California's Sierra Nevada, yet after these treatments, trees sometimes fail to regenerate on many sites, for several possible reasons. Notably, competition between shrubs and tree seedlings for scarce water during prolonged summer dry seasons is suspected to influence seedling survival, yet this hypothesis has been tested in few manipulated field experiments. We investigated the effects of vegetation patch types, root competition, putative mycorrhizal connections, soil moisture, and microclimate on the establishment of sugar pine (Pinus lambertiana) and white fir (Abies concolor) seedlings in an old-growth, mixed-conifer forest in the southern Sierra Nevada. Seedling survival rates were significantly higher under closed tree canopies than in patches dominated by manzanita (Arctostaphylos patula) shrubs. Treatments that allowed seedlings to connect with existing ectomycorrhizal networks did not enhance their survival. Isotope signatures suggest that mature conifer trees rely on water from deep soil layers (> 50 cm), while shrubs and tree saplings (1-3 m in height) rely on water from shallower layers (0-50 cm) at the beginning of the season, but as soils become drier the shrub's and the sapling's primary zone of uptake shifts downward in the soil profile. These findings imply that shrubs may inhibit the survival of establishing tree seedlings until the seedlings have a deep enough root system to extract soil moisture from soil below 50 cm. Our study suggests that tree seedling survival may depend on a seedling's ability to compete with shrubs for scarce soil moisture in the near-surface soil layers.
41425784|Previous phylogenetic and biogeographic studies of Iochroma (Solanaceae) suggested that I. ayabacense S. Leiva is a hybrid between I. cyaneum (Lindl.) M. L. Green and I. lehmannii Bitter. Chromosome counts for these three taxa demonstrate that all have a haploid chromosome number of n = 12, and thus that the formation of I. ayabacense did not involve changes in ploidy level. A comparison of vegetative and floral morphology revealed that I. ayabacense demonstrates a striking intermediacy between I. cyaneum and I. lehmannii. The results support the conclusion that I. ayabacense is a homoploid hybrid between I. cyaneum and I. lehmannii. Estudios flogenticos y biogeogrficos de Iochroma han sugerido que I. ayabacense S. Leiva es un hbrido entre I. cyaneum (Lindl.) M. L. Green y I. lehmannii Bitter. Recuentos de cromosomas definen un nmero haploide de n = 12 para estas especies y asi indican que la formacin de I. ayabacense no involucr un cambio en el nivel de ploida. Una comparacin de la morfologa vegetativa y floral revel que I. ayabacense tiene un forma intermedia entre I. cyaneum and I. lehmannii. Estos resultos respaldan la conclusin que I. ayabacense es un hbrido homoploide entre I. cyaneum y I. lehmannii.
41425270|Limaciniaseta californita is described as a sexually monomorphic species, developing on living plant surfaces. The distinguishing characters are dark cell-wall pigmentation, a stalked and setose ascocarp, a centrum with periphysoids, and an extenditunicate ascus that produces pigmented, traversely-septate ascospores.
41426132|Scarification of seeds as well as the presence of burned remains of Adenostoma fasciculatum can serve as germination triggers for the post-fire annual herb Emmenanthe penduliflora in the chaparral of southern California. Seeds from desert populations of E. penduliflora respond primarily to scarification. Such germination mechanisms may be an evolutionary response to the differing frequency of fire in these two ecosystems.
41424578|Lathyrus glandulosus, a new species from Humboldt and northern Medocino Counties in California, is described and illustrated. Its distinctive features include a winged stem, 14-18 leaflets, relatively small (10-12 mm long) purple flowers and a vestiture of stalked, glandular trichomes on lower leaflet surfaces, stems, calyces and ovaries.L. glandulosus has a chromosome number of 2n = 14.
41425213|Atriplex pachypoda is a newly described annual species from southwestern Colorado and northwestern New Mexico. It occurs in alkaline seepage areas and adjacent disturbed slopes in La Plata county, Colorado, and Rio Arriba county, New Mexico. It is morphologically most similar to A. caput-medusae Eastwood, but differs in its smaller, more spreading habit, narrow-ovate to ovate-elliptical instead of deltoid-ovate leaves, flattened instead of uncompressed fruiting-bracts, small, cone-shaped, instead of large, flattened, fruiting-bract appendages, larger, central, marginal tooth of fruiting-bract, more stout fruiting-bract pedicel, and later flowering-and fruiting-periods.
41426246|Euphorbia villifera var. crepsculo, is elevated to specific status and Ditaxis californica is reduced to a variety of D. serrata. Euphorbia villifera var. crepuscula se eleva a estado especifica y Ditaxis californica se reduce a una variedad de D. serrata.
41425509|Existing classifications of Californian vernal pools are based on whole-pool samples, which do not reflect the internal heterogeneity of vegetation within pools. We adopted a sampling scale finer than that of entire pools, using plots of 10 m placed in visually homogenous zones inside pools. Our analysis was based on > 700 plots in > 200 pools from 21 locations within northern California's Central Valley and Sierra Nevada foothills. Sixteen community types, each with a unique floristic composition, were recognized. We showed that a given vernal pool may consist of more than one community type, the same community type can be encountered in different pools, and most community types are locally restricted to a single vernal pool region, only a few having a wider geographical range. The presence of rare species was linked with particular community types. The implication of these results is that conservation and mitigation measures must be locally focused. Our data demonstrated that the whole pools consist of a complex of autonomous plant communities, thus changing our perception of vernal pool vegetation. California vernal pools differ from European ephemeral wetlands in the presence of many endemic genera (e.g., Downingia, Lasthenia, Navarretia, Plagiobothrys, Pogogyne, Psilocarphus). Their vegetation is recognized as the new class Downingio bicornutae-Lasthenietea fremontii.
41425610|Fire represents an important recruitment phase for many chaparral species. Prescribed burns are often scheduled during winter or spring when soil moisture is high in order to minimize risks of uncontrolled fire. However, chaparral wildfires typically occur in the summer or fall when soil moisture is low. Changing the seasonality of burn affects pre-burn soil moisture, burn temperature and timing of germination. High soil moisture during winter or spring burns is hypothesized to lower germination rates of chaparral plants compared to fall burns. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of prescribed spring burns on the germination of chaparral species in the Mendocino National Forest, California. We conducted two experiments to test for effects of moisture on seed germination. In the soil heating experiment, soil collected under chaparral was heated at several temperatures and soil moistures, and germinating seeds were counted. In the seed heat treatment experiment, seeds of 13 species were heated moist and dry to determine the moisture effect on heated seeds. Results indicate a differential response of seeds to heat and soil moisture. Lotus humistratus, Daucus pusillus and Penstemon heterophyllus were negatively affected by temperature in both moist and dry treatments. Ceanothus cuneatus and Genista monspesullana germination increased with temperature in both dry and moist treatments. Germination of six species (Adenostoma fasciculatum, Camissonia contorta, Emmenanthe pendiflora, Epilobium ciliatum, Galium aparine and Malacothrix clevelandii) decreased under moist heat treatments. These results suggest that spring burns may lead to decreased diversity of chaparral due to reduced seed survival and germination of certain species.
41424726|The Streptanthus morrisonii complex is a six-taxon group of closely related serpentine rock outcrop endemics from Lake, Napa, and Sonoma counties of California, USA. Two new subspecies (S. morrisonii subsp. kruckebergii and S. brachiatus subsp. hoffmanii) from Lake County, California, are described. The relationship of these taxa to others in the section is reviewed and descriptions and a key are provided.
41425610|Fire represents an important recruitment phase for many chaparral species. Prescribed burns are often scheduled during winter or spring when soil moisture is high in order to minimize risks of uncontrolled fire. However, chaparral wildfires typically occur in the summer or fall when soil moisture is low. Changing the seasonality of burn affects pre-burn soil moisture, burn temperature and timing of germination. High soil moisture during winter or spring burns is hypothesized to lower germination rates of chaparral plants compared to fall burns. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of prescribed spring burns on the germination of chaparral species in the Mendocino National Forest, California. We conducted two experiments to test for effects of moisture on seed germination. In the soil heating experiment, soil collected under chaparral was heated at several temperatures and soil moistures, and germinating seeds were counted. In the seed heat treatment experiment, seeds of 13 species were heated moist and dry to determine the moisture effect on heated seeds. Results indicate a differential response of seeds to heat and soil moisture. Lotus humistratus, Daucus pusillus and Penstemon heterophyllus were negatively affected by temperature in both moist and dry treatments. Ceanothus cuneatus and Genista monspesullana germination increased with temperature in both dry and moist treatments. Germination of six species (Adenostoma fasciculatum, Camissonia contorta, Emmenanthe pendiflora, Epilobium ciliatum, Galium aparine and Malacothrix clevelandii) decreased under moist heat treatments. These results suggest that spring burns may lead to decreased diversity of chaparral due to reduced seed survival and germination of certain species.
41424726|The Streptanthus morrisonii complex is a six-taxon group of closely related serpentine rock outcrop endemics from Lake, Napa, and Sonoma counties of California, USA. Two new subspecies (S. morrisonii subsp. kruckebergii and S. brachiatus subsp. hoffmanii) from Lake County, California, are described. The relationship of these taxa to others in the section is reviewed and descriptions and a key are provided.
41425410|Swallenia Soderstr. & H. F. Decker es un gnero endmico de California, Estados Unidos de Amrica, extremadamente raro, tiene afinidades taxonmicas inciertas y se encuentra en peligro de extincin. Se presentan observaciones de morfologa, anatoma foliar y micromorfologa de la lema. Muestra una estructura "Cloridoide", anatoma Kranz tipo PCK o PEP-ck y subtipo XyMS + . La lmina foliar, vista en seccin transversal, es nodular debido a que ambas superficies, abaxial y adaxial, tienen surcos profundos. El clornquima es continuo entre haces vasculares contiguos. Las clulas de parnquima incoloro, comunes en la subtribu Monanthochloinae, estn ausentes. La vaina externa del haz es redonda. La epidermis, en vista superficial, carece de papilas y los estomas estn confinados a los surcos y estn cubiertos por aguijones y una clula "papiliforme" intercostal. Las clulas cortas costales se distribuyen en largas hileras de hasta 15 clulas o ms. Los caracteres observados en la lema tienen correlacin con los de la lmina foliar, sin embargo, no muestran un patrn definido. Se describe su habitat y se hacen algunas consideraciones adaptativas. Las caractersticas anatmicas no apoyan la ubicacin del gnero Swallenia en la subtribu Monanthochloinae. Swallenia Soderstr. & H. E. Decker is a rare genus, with uncertain taxonomic affinities, endemic to California, USA and endangered. Morphology, leaf blade anatomy and lemma micromorphology are presented. It shows a "Chloridoid" structure, Kranz anatomy PCK or PEP-ck type and XyMS+ subtype. The leaf blade, as viewed in transverse section, is nodular because abaxial and adaxial surfaces have deep grooves. Chlorenchyma is continuous between adjacent vascular bundles. Colourless parenchyma cells, that are common in the Monanthochloinae subtribe, are absent. Outer bundle sheath is round. In the epidermis, as seen in surface view, papillae are absent and stomata occur in the grooves and are obscured by prickles and an intercostal "papilliform" cell. Costal short cells are arranged in rows to 15 cells or more. Lemma micromorphology characters are correlated to those of the leaf blade, but they do not show a characteristic pattern. Habitat and adaptative considerations are described. The anatomical characters do not support the placement of Swallenia genus as belonging to Monanthochloinae subtribe.
41424721|The pattern of anthocyanin pigmentation on flower petals of species of Clarkia sections Rhodanthos and Godetia is reviewed. The petals have large spots, blotches, or bands of red-purple color near the base, the center, the upper margin or in several positions, or are unspotted. A recent genetic analysis in C. gracilis revealed that the large central petal spot characteristic of subsp. sonomensis is allelic to a basal petal spot in subsp. gracilis that is normally not expressed because of the action of a modifier gene. Since Clarkia species display only a small number of discrete pigmentation patterns, I suggest that the major components of pattern differences among them are not complex from a genetic standpoint. Novel patterns can be assembled by substituting aleles at relatively few loci. Additional genes presumably contribute to various details of the patterns.
41425656|We used PCA of morphological characters to confirm the presence of an undescribed Calamagrostis species in Washington and Oregon that has historically been attributed to Calamagrostis vaseyi. We propose to name this grass Calamagrostis tacomensis. It is most similar to C. foliosa although it has often been confused with C. purpurascens and C. sesqutflora all of which have similar lemma awn characteristics (i.e., the awn relatively long, exserted, and bent). Calamagrostis tacomensis has been collected at high elevations (4902170 m) in the Washington Cascades, the Olympic Peninsula and the Steens Mountains of Oregon. The name C. vaseyi has been misapplied to our new species. The description of C. vaseyi is similar to C. rubescens. We have studied the specimen that has been attributed to be the type of C. vaseyi and it is C. purpurascens. We lectotypify C. vaseyi.
41424955|We report 39 additions to the flora of Glacier National Park. Fourteen of these are exotic weeds. Both the number of exotics and visitors have increased at an accelerating rate since 1920. These findings suggest that control of exotics will be an increasingly difficult task for managers of popular reserves.
41425251|Understanding the ecological factors that cause narrow geographic range and habitat specificity is essential for the conservation of rare species of edaphic endemic plants. Here we investigated the relative roles of soil and light in limiting the distribution of Chorizanthe pungens Benth. var. hartwegiana Rev. & Hardham (Polygonaceae), an annual plant endemic to open patches of low nutrient soils in the sandhills habitat of the Santa Cruz Mountains, Central Coastal California. Seedlings were grown in a controlled pot experiment under three light conditions and five soil treatments. The growth, survival, and reproduction of individual plants were compared. Plants were least successful when grown on their native low nutrient soil, suggesting that soil type is not a limiting factor in the taxon's distribution. However, when grown under high shade, survivorship, growth, and reproduction of individuals were low. This suggests that shade intolerance is the major cause of this taxon's restriction to open, sandy areas. Thus management to preserve this federally endangered species should include artificial or natural disturbances to prevent populations from being extirpated due to encroachment of taller, shade-producing species.
41426143|The British-born Joseph Burtt Davy spent 1892-1902 at the University of California, Berkeley, where he was affiliated with the Department of Botany and the State Agricultural Experiment Station. During this time he published about 80 articles on diverse aspects of botany, most of them in the journal Erythea for which he apparently had substantial editorial responsibility. Burtt Davy's activities in California are partially reconstructed through his correspondence with botanists at Berkeley and at Kew. The circumstances surrounding his departure from California are unclear, but in 1902 he moved to Washington, D. C., for a brief period and then went to Pretoria, South Africa, where he established a herbarium in a unit that eventually became the Botanical Research Unit.
41425633|A review of taxonomic literature, examination of existing herbarium specimens, and a morphological study of field-collected material demonstrates that species circumscriptions have been misapplied for the small-flowered Brodiaea species with spreading perianth lobes and floral tubes narrowed above the ovary. The results of these studies demonstrate that Niehaus's (1971) concept of B. purdyi, polyploid plants that occur in woodland habitats in the northern Sierra Nevada foothills, applies to the taxon originally described as B. minor, placing B. purdyi in synonymy with B. minor. Niehaus's concept of B. minor, diploid plants occurring in vernal pool terrain, applies only to those populations originally described as Brodiaea nana, which is resurrected at species rank.
41425016|Atriplex asterocarpa is a newly described annual species from southern Utah and northern Arizona. It occurs most often on slopes of the Chinle Formation. It is morphologically closest to A. saccaria but differs in its long-petioled leaves, globose fruiting bracts and indurate, sharp-pointed, conical fruiting-bract appendages.
41425075|The factors responsible for variation in evolutionary rate and pattern among related plant taxa remain in large part obscure. Neutral or selectionist theories alone cannot account for divergent rates of morphological and molecular evolution among related lineages. Interactions among population histories, inherent genetic capacities and environment influence divergence rate. The development of a concise modern evolutionary synthesis, incorporating molecular data and transcending the neo-Darwinian synthesis, is complicated by interaction of these highly complex variables. Control or limitation of these variables is necessary if further evolutionary research is to result in a new synthesis. To this end a biogeographic region is delimited within northcentral coastal California and termed the ' North Coast Biodiversity Arena' (NCBDA). The NCBDA has a relatively well-understood geological and environmental history. It is a region of marked microclimatic and edaphic discontinuities, but not one of extreme environments. In general, the climate displays a gradient of decreasing precipitation west to east with simultaneously decreasing equability. It is restricted by definition to elevations below 500 meters. Without high mountain ranges within its boundaries killing frost is essentially unknown. Its topography is varied and in some areas rain shadows have strong local effects. The NCBDA supports a highly diverse flora including both habitat specialists and broadly adapted species. The diversity of major vegetation types, floristic associations, edaphics, and geologies within the NCBDA is introduced. Evolutionary problems critical to the development of a modern evolutionary synthesis and whose solutions may be accessible within the NCBDA are described.
41424819|Three woodlands dominated by California black walnut were studied. At one site, Quercus agrifolio, was a co-dominant whereas at the other two sites Juglans californica dominated > 90% of the relative areal coverage. Heteromeles arbutifolia was a significant component of all three woodlands. At two of the sites most of the walnuts were single-stemmed and some of them exceeded 15 m in height. Another site was a more open savanna type woodland and many trees had multiple stems; 40% had 4 or more stems per plant and one had 16 stems. The age structure of the three Juglans populations is presented. At all sites there were stems at least 70 years of age. All populations had substantial seedling recruitment and densities ranged from 275 to 1975 seedlings (defined as stems < 5 years of age and not attached to a mature tree) per hectare. It is hypothesized that irregularities in annual seedling establishment and seedling mortality play an important role in structuring these populations.
41426196|Twenty species of algae were identified in snow and ice collections from Alberta, California, Colorado, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, and Washington. Red resting spores of Chlamydomonas nivalis, zygotes of Chloromonas brevispina and Chloromonas nivalis, and cells of Scotiella polyptera were most frequently encountered. The following taxa are reported for the first time from snow and ice habitats in western North America: Anabaena variabilis, Actinotaenium cucurbita var. attenuatum, Synedra mazamaensis, S. tablala var.acuminata, Eunotia curvata var. curvata, Achnanthes flexella var. flexella, A. lapponica, Pinnularia hilseana var. hilseana, and Gomphonema acuminatum. In addition Cylindrocystis brebissonii f. cryophila is first reported from Alberta, and Raphidonema nivale and Chloromonas brevispina from California.
41425149|Chromosome numbers are reported for 75 populations of 19 species of Erigeron from Mexico and 4 populations of 1 species from Arizona. First reports for the species are given for E. fraternus, E. polycephalus, E. strigulosus, and E. wislizeni, and new ploidy levels are reported for E. coronarius van durangensis, E. janivultus, E. forreri, E. pubescens, and E. versicolor. Erigeron gilensis and E. mimegletes are treated as synonyms of E. versicolor, a species previously considered to be endemic to southcentral Mexico. Comments on morphological variability in E. versicolor, E. longipes, E. pubescens, and several other species are provided.
41425756|A long-term history of water table fluctuations, from alternating periods of drought and abundant precipitation, can be preserved in the stratigraphy of wetland sediments. We examined the middle to late Holocene history of vegetation and climate change from a small wetland on the Modoc Plateau in Shasta County, northeastern California. This site is at a transition between the Great Basin and the Californian Floristic Provinces, and the paleoecological record from Flycatcher Basin exhibits affinities to both. Although the sedimentary record extends back to ca. 8300 cal yr BP, organic sediment did not form until ca. 4500 cal yr BP, indicating that water was probably absent in the basin during the middle Holocene. Pollen and plant macrofossils deposited after 4500 cal yr BP suggests a mixed conifer -Quercus forest grew around Flycatcher Basin. Charcoal is abundant in these sediments, indicating periodic forest fire. Distinctly modern forests developed by about 2200 cal yr BP, when Pinus became the dominant conifer with Quercus, in a more closed forest, perhaps with more frequent fire. The record from Flycatcher Basin provides no evidence for change in the boundaries between the Great Basin and California (Cascadian) floristic provinces during the period of record. The late Holocene is interpreted as a generally increasingly mesic sequence, with a long-term increase in groundwater recharge, yet interspersed by extended drought during the last 2000 yr. Extended droughts occurred from ca. 1125 AD to 1450 AD, with an earlier protracted dry period from ca. 100 AD to ca. 900 AD. Generally wetter periods occur from ca. 1000 to 1125 AD, and after ca. 1450 AD. The paleoenvironmental changes in the Flycatcher Basin wetland are a local expression of a much broader climatic pattern, as shown by several studies of higher resolution proxies. The record from Flycatcher Basin wetland is important in demonstrating the centennial to millennial-scale fluctuations in water availability in a region of rapidly expanding human population, with an increasing need for water resources.
41424607|The historic roots of the California Botanical Society are traced from 1853, when the California Academy of Natural Sciences was founded, to the organizational meeting in 1913 called by W. L. Jepson. Twenty-five organizations and events more or less influenced the Society's origins. Natural history events, especially botanical, in the East, the role of the California Botanical Club, the Sierra Club, and rivalries are noted particularly.
41702397|Calystegia sepium (L.) R. Br subsp. binghamiae (Greene) Brummitt (Convolvulaceae), until recently presumed extinct, is elevated to species status. The basionym Convolvulus binghamiae Greene was published without identifying a type; therefore, a lectotype is selected from among the specimens cited in Greene's description.
41424754|Effects of up to three successive spring and fall burns on composition and biomass of the predominantly non-native grasslands of the southern Sierra Nevada foothills were evaluated. Fall and spring burning regimes increased the number and biomass of both alien and native forb species. No native grass species became established following the treatments. Thus, whereas the biomass of alien grass species can be reduced by repeated burning, they will be replaced by increases in both alien and native forbs. Changes seen following one or two burns (spring or fall) were not sustained following cessation of burning treatment.
41424924|Arctostaphylos peninsularis subsp. peninsularis is a crown sprouting species with massive burls that dominates much of the Sierra San Pedro Martir of northern Baja California. In the adjacent Sierra Juarez, A. peninsularis subsp. juarezensis is a nonburl-forming arborescent obligate seeder. Hypotheses are proposed to account for this marked difference in fire response. Arctostaphylos peninsularis subesp. peninsularis es una especie poseedora de tubrculo lignoso que rebrota despus de incendios y se encuentra por todo la Sierra San Pedro Martir de Baja California norte. Encuentran en las montanas adyacientes, la Sierra Juarez, A. peninsularis subesp. juarezensis. Es esta una especie arborescente la cual no posee un tuberculo lignoso ni puede rebrotar despues de los incendios. Hipotesis son proponer para explicar esta differencia en respuesta regeneracion del fuego.
41424188|Detailed anatomical descriptions of leaves and stems are presented for Koeberlinia and Canotia, desert perennials of North America with photosynthetic old stems. Koeberlinia has linear subulate leaves with conical unicellular trichomes, adaxial stornata, abundant palisade mesophyll, and relatively few tannin cells; whereas Canotia has deltoid scales lacking trichomes and having abaxial stornata, undifferentiated mesophyll, and abundant tannin cells. Stem anatomy of these genera is also dissimilar even though both have adaptations to facilitate stem photosynthesis. Myrosin cells are present in inner cortex of Koeberlinia. Woods are superficially similar in vessel and fiber dimensions; however, Canotia has low, narrow rays with abundant resin and prismatic crystals, whereas Koeberlinia has higher, wider rays lacking resin and crystals, and its vessels appear to have vestured pits. Bark anatomy of these genera is fundamentally different. A previous report of secretory ducts in Koeberlinia is incorrect. Those features shared are judged to be convergent, and the differences are great enough to negate their classification together in the bigeneric Koeberliniaceae. A recommendation is made to reassign Canotia to Celastraceae and Koeberlinia to or near Capparaceae.
41424858|Nitrogen inputs and storage pools were quantified for 20 months on a perennial grass dominated beach-foredune area at Pt. Reyes National Seashore, CA. Atmospheric input of ammonium and nitrate by bulk precipitation (rain + dry fallout) was 1.6 kg N ha;1 yr and by summer fog condensation was 4.2 kg N ha yr; Non-symbiotic nitrogen fixation was not detected and fixation by a nodulated legume species is negligible relative to atmospheric inputs. The total ecosystem nitrogen pool was only 390 kg ha , 78% of which was soil organic nitrogen, 18% was in vegetation, and 4% was inorganic soil nitrogen. Living vascular plant tissue contained 1.7% nitrogen a value typical of crop plants on fertile soil despite soil nitrogen content < 0.006%.
41425703|Brodiaea santarosae (Themidaceae) is a new species from southwest Riverside County and immediately-adjacent Miller Mountain of San Diego County, CA. It is easily distinguished from other Brodiaea species in southern California by its large flowers and distinctive, variable staminodes; morphological analysis revealed 11 total differentiating characteristics. Brodiaea santarosae occurs only on or very close to the 8-11 million-year-old Santa Rosa Basalt. It has the smallest range of the southern California Brodiaeas, with just four known populations occupying only a small portion of a ~ 40 km area, plus a fifth small population disjunct by 11 km. It has been speculated that the B. santarosae population is a hybrid swarm between B. filifolia and B. orcuttii, based solely on the appearance of the staminodes and filaments in selected flowers. This speculation was rejected due to the lack of sympatry between the three taxa and because specimens of B. santarosae have numerous characteristics that are not intermediate between the claimed parent taxa. In contrast, intermediate characteristics were seen in Fl specimens of B. filifolia X B. orcuttii discovered in San Marcos, CA, the only location where those species overlap. We also report extensions to the length characteristics for both B. filifolia and B. orcuttii and demonstrate that two populations of B. filifolia previously thought to be hybrids are consistent with other B. filifolia populations. Brodiaea santarosae (Themidaceae) es una nueva especie del sudoeste del Condado de Riverside y del monte Miller inmediato-adyacente en el Condado de San Diego, CA. Es distinguido fcilmente de las otras especies de Brodiaea del Sur de California por sus flores grandes y staminodes variables y distintivos; el anlisis morfolgico revel 11 totales que distinguen caractersticas. Brodiaea santarosae ocurre solamente en o muy cerca del Santa Rosa Basalt de 8-11 millones de aos de antigedad. Tiene la gama ms pequea de las Brodiaeas del Sur de California, con apenas cuatro poblaciones conocidas ocupando solamente una porcin pequea de un rea de ~ 40 km , ms una quinto poblacin pequea disjunta por 11 kilmetros. Se ha especulado que la poblacin de B. santarosae es un enjambre hbrido entre B. filifolia y B.orcuttii, basados solamente en el aspecto de los staminodes y de los filamentos en flores seleccionadas.Esta especulacin fue rechazada debido a la carencia de sympatry entre los tres taxa y porque los especmenes de B. santarosae tienen caractersticas numerosas que no sean intermedias entre los taxa demandados del padre. En contraste, las caractersticas intermedias fueron consideradas en los especmenes Fl del B. filifolia X B. orcuttii descubierto en San Marcos, CA, la nica localizacin donde esas especies se traslapan.Tambin divulgamos extensiones a las caractersticas de la longitud para B. filifolia y B. orcuttii y demostramos que dos poblaciones del B. filifolia pensaron previamente para ser hbridos son constantes con otras poblaciones del B. filifolia.
41702384|Foxtail pine, Pinus balfouriana Grev. & Balf., is an endemic subalpine conifer of California with two allopatric subspecies. The northern subspecies grows in northwestern California and the southern subspecies is found in the southern Sierra Nevada. We studied three northern and three southern populations of P. balfouriana to evaluate the population biology, demography, mortality agents, and environmental conditions in these contrasting regions. Northern populations exist under a mesic climatic regime, a diversity of geological substrates, stands of high tree species richness, lower densities and basal areas, but higher numbers of recruitment, with a relatively mixed size class distribution. Southern foxtail pine populations exist under a xeric climatic regime dominated by granitic substrates, with moderate to high stand densities, less tree species-rich, lower recruitment numbers, but higher basal areas; due to a skewed size class distribution with high representation of large diameter trees. Recruitment in the north averaged 169.3 seedlings/saplings ha, compared to 91.3 seedlings/saplings ha in the south, despite the fact that northern populations produce less cones on average (3695 cones ha) than populations in the southern Sierra Nevada (7642 cones ha). At the stand-level, solar radiation input and foxtail pine density were correlated with fecundity. These factors may correspond with microenvironmental and topographic conditions that favor germination (e.g., warmer microclimate) and propagule pressure (e.g., seed supply). At the local or plot-level, microenvironmental conditions (e.g., litter, substrate type, and microhabitat) and factors corresponding to local seed supply (e.g., density, basal area, number of cones, and number of reproductive adults) were correlated with recruitment, particularly in the southern Sierra Nevada. Foxtail pine is recruiting episodically in higher numbers in the north and lower numbers in the south. Four of six populations appear to be stable, due to low mortality and high survivorship. Low estimates of population growth () at Lake Mountain (north) and Sirretta Peak (south) were due to mortality of large diameter trees and low recruitment. At these locations, mountain pine beetle-mediated mortality and drought stress appear to be important factors contributing to current population trends.
41424921|A report of 2n= 15 II is new for Chaenactis douglasii (Hook.) Hook. & Arn., as are 12 II and 18 II for C. douglasii var. montana M. E. Jones. The frequency of meiotic aberrations (11%) was 33% of that found in a larger 1980 study. The correlation between ploidy level and age of substrate was highest in the Sierra Nevada and lowest in the Intermontane Plateaus.
41425695|This study describes the distribution of species in a 21.6 ha inland salt marsh, consisting of three plant communities. The marsh community is along Leon Creek in the Diamond Y Spring Preserve in Pecos County near Fort Stockton, in western Texas (3100.54' N, 10255.49 'W). From driest (highest elevation) to wettest (lowest elevation), the sequence is a Sporobolus airoides (alkali sacaton, Poaceae) grassland, a Distichlis spicata (saltgrass, Poaceae) grassland, and in the drainage a Schoenoplectus americanus (bulrush, Cyperaceae) marsh community. The communities were simple, with a total of 15 species found in the marsh. The mean plant cover in the salt marsh was 59%. The Sporobolus grassland covered 26% of the marsh and contained six species including S. airoides with 52  36% cover and D. spicata with 13  21% cover. The four other species were Helianthus paradoxus (Pecos or puzzle sunflower, Asteraceae), Suaeda calceoliformis (seepweed, Chenopodiaceae), Limonium limbatum (sea lavender, Plumbaginaceae), and Sesuvium verrucosum (sea purslane, Aizoaceae) ( 5% cover each). The Distichlis grassland covered 50% of the marsh and contained nine species.Distichlis spicata had 50  33% cover followed by H. paradoxus at 25  25% cover, S. calceoliformis at 10  19% and S. airoides at 6  20%. The five other species were S. texanus (Texas sporobolus, Poaceae), Flaveria chlorifolia (yellow flaveria, Asteraceae), Juncus mexicanus (Mexican rush, Juncaceae), S. americanus and L. limbatum ( 2% cover each). In the Schoenoplectus community that covered only 2% of the salt marsh, there were 11 species. High cover species included S.americanus at 39  33%, D. spicata at 22  34%, H. paradoxus at 11  26%, and S. texanus at 9  14%. Seven other species had cover values of one percent or less including S. calceoliformis, J.mexicanus, Samolus cuneatus (brookweed, Primulaceae), Spartina pectinata (prairie cordgrass, Poaceae), Heliotropium curassavicum (alkali heliotrope, Boraginaceae), Agalinis calycina (Leoncita false foxglove, Scrophulariaceae) and Eleocharis palustris (spikerush, Cyperaceae).
41424591|Coursetia insomniifolia is herein described from Coahuila, Mexico. It is the only member of the genus to inhabit the Chihuahuan Desert, and its relationship with other species of Coursetia is obscure. Coursetia axillaris and C. glandulosa, both inhabitants of northern Mexico and adjacent U.S.A., are probably its closest relatives.
41425083|The Marin Islands in San Francisco Bay are two very small islands a short distance off the shore of San Rafael, Marin County, California. The vegetation and floras of the two islands are strikingly different. The herbaceous flora of the plateau on West Marin Island is dominated by a dense sward of the introduced annual grasses Bromus diandrus and Avena fatua, whereas the flora of the plateau on East Marin Island is dominated by a mixture of smaller, introduced grass species growing with several perennial and annual native forbs and grasses. Snowy Egrets, Great Egrets, Blackcrowned Night Herons, Great Blue Herons, Western Gulls, and Canada Geese nest on West Marin Island; of these, only Canada Geese nest sparingly on East Marin Island. We attribute the floristic and vegetational differences between these islands to alterations of soil chemistry by bird guano and physical disturbances of the vegetation caused by the birds on West Marin Island, factors that are largely missing from East Marin Island, which was, until very recently, inhabited. The vegetation of both islands includes mixed evergreen forest, coastal prairie, coastal salt marsh, and northern coastal scrub. Several species of introduced ornamental trees, shrubs, and herbs grow on East Marin Island but not on West Marin Island. Both islands support a partially fringing woodland of Quercus agrifolia, Aesculus californica, and Umbellularia californica. The native Sancula crassicaulis, Stachys ajugoides var. rgida, Dryopteris arguta, Lonicera hispidula var. vacillans, and Symphoricarpus albus var. laevigatus were frequent on East Marin Island but were not observed on West Marin Island; Claytonia perfoliata and Polypodium californicum were abundant on the former island but were sparingly represented on the latter one. The known native vascular flora of the two islands consists of 65 species; 26 of these occur on both islands, 37 are known only from East Marin Island, and two were collected only on West Marin Island.
41425167|Lomatium Observatorium, described herein from Mount Hamilton, California, is the southernmost link in a chain of morphologically similar entities extending through the Coast Ranges to southern Oregon. The first of these to receive taxonomic recognition was L. ciliolatum', its former variety is herein raised to specific rank as L.hooveri to demonstrate its parity with other members of the alliance. Outside of the alliance, two species of Lomatium not included in the Jepson Manual are now known to occur in California: L. grayi and L. hendersonii.
41424252|Between 1640 and 1907 fires hot enough to produce basal scars on pines in a small isolated Pinus lambertiana forest in the Santa Lucia Range of central California occurred on the average of once every 21 years. Excepting two small lightning fires that were quickly extinguished, no fires occurred in the pine forest after 1907 until the lightning-caused Marble-Cone fire burned the entire forest in 1977. This was the most intense burn recorded within the life of the present forest. It caused significant loss of pines, particularly within the 40 percent of the forest on the north summit above 1600 m elevation. Changes in forest composition resulting from the Marble-Cone fire suggest that several more fires following 50-75 year intervals may eliminate P. lambertiana forest above 1600 m on Junipero Serra Peak.
41425553|Arctostaphylos gabilanensis V. T. Parker and M. C. Vasey is a newly described diploid manzanita species from the Gabilan Mountains in San Benito and Monterey counties, CA. This species demonstrates characteristics that suggest a hybrid origin, with auriculate leaves similar to many maritime species, but also with inflorescence characters including large globose fruits and fused nutlets that indicate a relationship to A. glauca. Plants are restricted to soils of granitic origin between 300-700 m from just SE of Fremont Peak, south to near the northern boundary of the Pinnacles. We also provide a key to the northern auriculate-leaved Arctostaphylos species of the San Francisco Bay and Monterey Bay regions.
41425918|Gabbro is a mafic rock with many species that do not occur on soils of granitic or ultramafic rocks. Although some gabbro soils harbor many unique or endemic species, others do not, as botanists have noted from the Appalachian Piedmont to the mountains of California and Oregon. Gabbro soils were sampled in the Peninsular Ranges and in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada to identify special features of the gabbro soils with unique plant species distributions. No soil morphological or chemical differences were found between gabbro soils with and without unique plant species that might explain the differences in plant distributions. Although many unique species may occur only on gabbro soils, apparently their distributions cannot be explained primarily by soil differences among gabbro soils.
41424895|Documented meiotic and mitotic chromosome counts are reported for 69 taxa, including interspecific hybrids, representing 11 genera of Cactaceae from the southwestern United States and northern Mexico. These include first reports for 16 taxa.New ploidy levels were determined for two additional taxa. These chromosome counts are all consistent with the base number for the Cactaceae, x= 11. Nomenclatural changes are: Opuntia x kelvinensis V. Grant & K. Grant (pro sp.) (O. fulgida x O. spinosior), O. x vaseyi (J. Coulter) Britton & Rose (pro sp.) (O.littoralis x O. phaeacantha), O.x occidentalis Engelm. (pro sp.) (O. littoralis x [O.engelmannii x O. phaeacantha]), and O. wolfii (L. Benson) M. A. Baker, comb, et status nov. Se reportan conteos meiticos y mitticos documentados de cromosomas para 69 taxa, representando 11 gneros de cactceas del suroeste de los Estados Unidos y del norte de Mxico. Estos incluyen los primeros reportes para 16 taxa. Neuvos niveles de ploidia fueron determinados para dos taxa adicionales. Estos conteos de cromosomas son todos consistentes con el nmero base para Cactaceae, x=11.Cambios de nomenclatura son: Opuntia x kelvinensis V. Grant & . Grant (pro sp.) (O. fulgida x O. spinosior), O. x vaseyi (J. Coulter) Britton & Rose (pro sp.) (O. littoralis x O. phaeacantha), O. x occidentalis Engelm. (pro sp.) (O. littoralis x [O.engelmannii x O. phaeacantha]), y O. wolfii (L. Benson) M. A. Baker, comb, et status nov.
41425256|Mount St. Helens is an active volcano located in the Cascade Range of southwestern Washington. The volcano erupted in 1980 and created a wide array of devastated landscapes. Since the eruption, vegetation has been colonizing these new landscapes. In the summers of 1993 and 1994 we inventoried plant species and their relative abundance on the Pumice Plain, Plains of Abraham, Toutle Debris Avalanche, Toutle Ridge, and the crater. We distinguished plants as those found in primary successional uplands and wetlands and in refugia. Refugia are defined as habitat where plants survived the eruption as rootstock. The principal refugia are located between the Pumice Plain and Plains of Abraham. The current flora is dominated by wind-dispersed invasive species, mainly those in the families Asteraceae, Poacee, Cyperaceae, and Onagraceae. Large-seeded, late-successional understory species are common in refugia and, to a limited extent, have spread into primary substrates. The species documented comprise 341 species in 178 genera and 53 families. These species comprise 4 Sphenophyta, 6 Pterophyta, 9 Coniferophyta, and 322 Anthophyta (221 Dicotyledonae and 101 Monocotyledonae). Fifty-seven of the species are non-native. Species were surveyed for relative abundance on a three way scalewidespread, locally common, and infrequent. This checklist provides a baseline to judge future composition of the flora and plant invasion patterns.
41424192|Carlowrightia texana, C. mexicana, and C. lesueurii are described, illustrated, and mapped. The new species are distinguished from C. torreyana, C. arizonica, and C. mexicana respectively.
41425594|We estimated aboveground and belowground net primary productivity (NPP) for two reaches of a montane riparian ecosystem in the eastern Sierra Nevada Mountains of California with differing stream flow regimes resulting from varying degrees of stream flow diversion for hydroelectric power generation. Total understory productivity (herbaceous and shrub) was 2.5 times higher (P < 0.001) at the high-flow site than at the low-flow site (22.4 and 8.9 g C m yr, respectively). Annual litterfall was also higher (P = 0.03) at the high-flow (235 g C m yr) than at the low-flow site (180 g C m yr). However, tree and total aboveground NPP, as well as annual soil respiration and belowground NPP, were all statistically similar between sites. Furthermore, total (above-plus below-ground) NPP was statistically similar between sites (903 and 643 g C m yr for the high-and low-flow sites, respectively). These productivity estimates are, to our knowledge, the first ever reported for a western montane riparian ecosystem. Our results suggest that NPP of montane riparian ecosystems located along gaining stream reaches is only loosely coupled to stream flow, and understory aboveground NPP may be the most sensitive productivity measure to altered stream flow.
41424367|Phenology, germination, and survival in a desert ephemeral community was followed from January 1976 through January 1978. Cool season species germinated following rain in fall and/or winter. Germination of warm season C ephemerals was restricted to May. Significant variations occurred in the phenology of plants germinating in response to the same rain storm. The shape of survivorship curves among cool season species dramatically varied depending on seasonality of precipitation.
41425313|Eight of eleven cultivars of Juniperus communis L. growing at Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden exhibit a morphology atypical of the wild populations from which they were reportedly derived. The "exotic" morphology consists of branchlets arranged at almost 90 to the branch axis and more spreading leaves that are of a bluer color than those of the wild plants. One of the "exotic" cultivars additionally shows a chimaeric distribution of acicular and scale-like leaves along its branches. Scale-like leaves are characteristics of Juniperus section Sabina and not section Juniperus, to which J. communis belongs. A RAPD marker study was initiated to compare RAPD fingerprints of the cultivars with those of their putative wild ancestors and representatives of other Juniperus species in both sections. Results suggested that the eight cultivars having an "exotic" morphology were either hybrids between J. communis and J. chinensis, or pedomorphic forms of J. chinensis. The three remaining cultivars that have a "native" morphology clustered with J. communis progenitors.
41426221|Subspecies of Yucca whipplei represent different life history modes. Subspecies whipplei and parishii are semelparous, subsp. caespitosa is iteroparous, subsp. percursa has vegetative reproduction, and subsp. intermedia combines both patterns of these last two taxa. Germination of all subspecies was greatly inhibited at 40C suggesting seedling recruitment is restricted during hotter months. Brief heat treatment at 100C prior to wetting did not enhance germination, as is the case in many chaparral shrubs commonly associated with Yucca. Rather, germination was reduced at this temperature, though the reduction was least for the two semelparous forms most commonly associated with chaparral. Seedling biomass after four months in a common environment showed highly significant differences among subspecies and was strongly correlated with initial seed weight. Biomass allocation patterns were significantly different among subspecies but not related to reproductive mode, seed weight or elevation or distance from the coast (of seed collection site). Leaf characteristics were associated with reproductive mode; the two semelparous subspecies had markedly higher estimated leaf areas than the other three taxa. All taxa increased allocation of biomass to corms under low moisture and high temperature "stress" conditions.
41425637|Additional measurements of male and female plants and staminate flowers are reported for Arceuthobium pendens. Measurements for fruits and seeds of this rare mistletoe are reported for the first time. Additional information on phenology and host reactions to infection is reported also. Se reportan mediciones adicionales de plantas masculinas y femeninas y de flores masculinas de Arceuthobium pendens. Las mediciones de frutos y semillas de esta rara especie de murdago enano son reportadas por primera vez. Informacin adicional sobre fluoracin y dispersin de semillas y reacciones del hospedero a la infeccin son tambin reportadas.
41425249|Field examination of dune hillocks (nebkas) showed that changes in nebka topography and spread, sand texture, vascular plant and cryptogram cover, and species prescence were correlated with nebka ages between 15 and 135 yr. We determined age by a series of aerial photographs dating back to 1955 and topographic maps drawn as early as 1862. Development of a cryptogamic crust was significant during this range of time; on the oldest nebka it contributed 43 g biomass m of nebka surface, which represented 3% of total above-ground biomass. Nebkas at Bodega grew in height 4 cm yr during the past century, whereas non-vegetated areas were deflated at the same rate. Sucession is driven by sandstilling attributes of Ammophila arenaria, introduced to northern California in the mid-ninteenth century and additionally planted at Bodega in the mid-twentieth century. By reference to the 1862 map we concluded that A. arenaria has built a prominent, continuous foredune and hinddune since the time of its arrival.
41425913|Cryptic self-incompatibility (CSI) is a type of non-random mating observed in self-compatible plants in which outcross pollen sires proportionally more seeds than self pollen when both pollen types are available on the stigma. Levels of CSI are known to vary among individuals and populations. We conducted competitive pollinations consisting of mixtures of self and outcross pollen to investigate reports of CSI in certain populations of Clarkia unguiculata Lindl. We also investigated how the order of self and outcross pollen deposition on the stigma influences the degree of nonrandom mating. Finally, we looked at whether the source population of outcross pollen affected the ability of outcross pollen to outcompete self pollen. We utilized recessive (white-petaled) maternal (and self pollen donor) plants from a locality near Morro Bay, California, and dominant (pink-petaled) outcross pollen donor plants from 17 localities widespread through the species range in California. Progenies from pollinations made with equal mixtures of self and cross pollen included significantly more outcrosspollinated than self-pollinated offspring in 10 of the 17 cross-pollen donor populations. However six populations showed no significant difference between self-and outcross-pollinated offspring, and one population yielded a majority of progeny sired by self pollen. Progenies from sequential self pollen followed by outcross pollinations included significantly more self offspring in 12 of the donor populations, no significant difference between outcross and self offspring in four donor populations and significantly more outcross offspring in one donor population. Progenies from sequential outcross pollen followed by self pollinations included significantly more outcross offspring in 15 donor populations and no significant difference between outcross and self offspring in two donor populations. Our results confirm the occurrence of non-random mating in C. unguiculata, and demonstrate that the degree of non-random mating can depend on the order of self vs. outcross pollen deposition and the source population of outcross pollen. This non-random mating can influence the proportion of self and outcross progeny in sequential pollinations.
41424885|Recent burning and sheep grazing did not affect recruitment, survival, or growth of seedling Quercus douglasii Hooker & Arnott over four years at the Hopland Field Station, California. Recruitment did vary considerably among years. Once a seedling's shoot emerged, the probability of surviving to the next year remained constant, at about 0.5, unaffected by year, seedling size or age, past fire, or present sheep grazing. Established seedlings did not increase in size, and showed no indication of growing out of the seedling class into the sapling class. Successful natural regeneration appears to depend on factors controlling growth, not on factors associated with mortality during the seedling stage.
41426370|Pentachaeta aurea Nutt. subsp. allenii Keil is described as new. It is apparently endemic to southwestern Orange Co., California. Lamina tips of ray corollas of living specimens of the plants are pale yellow in early morning but turn brilliant white after 1-2 hr in sunshine; laminae of subsp. aurea are solid yellow.
41425899|Howellanthus (Constance) Walden and R. Patt. is recognized as a new genus, containing a single species H. dalesianus (J. T. Howell) Walden and R. Patt., based on morphological evidence. Howellanthus dalesianus (Boraginaceae) is a small perennial herb, endemic to northern California and restricted to ultramafic soils. The species was first collected in 1936 by Ella Dales Cantelow and Herbert Clair Cantelow, described by John Thomas Howell as Phacelia dalesiana J. T. Howell, and later placed in the monotypic Phacelia subg. Howellanthus by Lincoln Constance.
41424910|The upper Owens River channel has been used for decades as an aqueduct to deliver flows from the Mono Basin to the Los Angeles Aqueduct. This out-of-basin diversion has tripled the volume of flow in the upper Owens River and altered channel and floodplain morphology (e.g., channels have become wider, deeper, and straighter). These changes have influenced density, distribution and growth response of the dominant riparian tree, Salix lasiolepis (white willow). Compared to an upstream control reach, juvenile S. lasiolepis had significantly lower density in the reach receiving the additional flows. Mature S. lasiolepis trees in the augmented-flow reach had significantly lower areal cover and had high relative abundance of dead trees. The trees tended to be located farther from the stream and to be more abundant on floodplains higher above the stream water level. These patterns may result from physiological intolerance of wetter soils, and from avulsive channel straightening and physical removal of seedlings and trees from near-stream recruitment areas during high flood flows. Radial growth rates of mature S. lasiolepis did not differ between reaches, but annual growth patterns did differ. Growth of the willow in the control reach increased significantly with annual flow volume and was frequently limited by low flows. Growth of willow in the augmented reach decreased with annual flow volume and was limited by very high flows. Flows that produced greatest growth were at the high range of the natural flows and low range of the augmented flows. Very high flows may produce saturated conditions that are not conducive to growth or survival. If flows were restored to natural levels, we speculate that S. lasiolepis would ultimately increase in density. Density would remain low, however, until the river-floodplain system reequilibrated and until other factors that limit willow abundance (i.e., cattle browsing) were minimized.
41425841|Naturalized Ilex aquifolium L. (English holly) was first collected in the Pacific Northwest in 1953, based on herbarium records. Field surveys showed it is now commonly naturalized from northwestern California to coastal British Columbia. Ilex crenata Thunb. and I. opaca Aiton were also found growing outside of cultivation, but rarely. A key and seed illustrations are provided to distinguish these three Ilex species. Between 2003 and 2006 twice-weekly visits to naturalized and cultivated hollies in Seattle revealed seven species of birds disseminating seeds by eating the fruits. American robins, Turdus migratorius, accounted for 96% of 2796 frugivory observations on I. aquifolium, followed by European starlings, Sturnus vulgaris (3.2%). Ilex aquifolium fruits ripened in October and persisted for six months, yet 99% of all fruit was consumed between November and February. A study of I. aquifolium seed fate found pre-dispersal diurnal seed predation was rarely observed. Birdregurgitated seed was more frequently attacked by nocturnal rodents in a sheltered forested setting in Clark Co., Washington (39% losses), compared to an exposed urban setting in Seattle (2% losses). The percentage of viable seed surviving rodent attack was higher in the urban sample (66%) than in the forest sample (24%). Commercial and ornamental use of I. aquifolium is extensive in the coastal region and less-invasive alternatives should be considered, to provide food and cover for urban avians without degrading natural areas.
41425267|Historical data collected from eight mixed conifer and four giant sequoia Sequoiadendron giganteum (Lindley) Buchholz (giant sequoia)-mixed conifer plots in the southern Sierra Nevada by George Sudworth in 1900-1901 were analyzed to determine historic forest structure. Although it is not possible to document details of the sampling methodology used by this early forest inventory, the plots were dominated by large trees of several species. Average diameter at breast height (DBH) was 110 cm (43 inches) in the mixed conifer plots and 145 cm (57 inches) in S. giganteum-mixed conifer plots for trees greater than 30.5 cm DBH. Results indicate that both shade intolerant and shade tolerant species were abundant. Average tree density was low at 278 trees/ha (111 trees/acre) in mixed conifer plots and 272 trees/ha (109 trees/acre) in S. giganteurn-mixed conifer plots for trees greater than 30.5 cm DBH. The most common size classes are in the medium to large size classes for all S. giganteum-mixed conifer species. This is in contrast to published studies of current stands that have determined small size classes of shade tolerant species are occurring at higher frequencies. Early land uses such as logging and grazing at the turn of the 20th century impacted mixed conifer and S. giganteum-mixed conifer forests of the southern Sierra Nevada. Information from this study can assist in the characterization of the "natural range of variability" of these forests which could be used in their restoration and management.
41425477|California bunchgrass communities are one of the most endangered ecosystem types in the United States. In this study, we sought to determine long-term (52+ years) changes in populations of native bunchgrasses, Nassella pulchra (A. Hitchc.) Barkworth and Nassella cernua (Stebb. & Love) Barkworth, in unmanaged stands. At the landscape scale, Nassella has increased. However, population dynamics of individual stands appeared related to land-use history. Non-native annuals, by themselves, did not seem to cause decline of Nassella stands, but light grazing did cause reduction of Nassella basal cover. Areas that were historically cultivated supported Nassella stands with lower basal cover and size distributions qualitatively different from areas that were never cultivated. Mortality of Nassella, was concentrated in small plants. Interspecific interference probably was important in limiting seedling recruitment in stands with low Nassella basal cover, and intraspecific interference appeared to become important as Nassella basal cover increased. Even in the presence of non-native annuals, Nassella stands in areas that have not been disturbed by cultivation do not appear to require management for maintenance. New individuals are recruiting into populations, and conservative a estimate of longevity of large individuals of Nassella is 100 years. However, in areas that have been cultivated, active management may be required to increase the abundance of Nassella.
41425857|We conducted a study of Prosartes parvifolia S. Watson, a rare Siskiyou Mountains endemic, currently known from only 15 sites in Del Norte Co., California, and Curry and Josephine counties, Oregon. We found that P. parvifolia is (a) fertile, (b) probably not of hybrid origin, and (c) distinct and worthy of recognition as a species. Unlike congeners, its flowers produce ovaries with a single locule, and are pollinated by bees that buzz pollen from connivent anthers. Nectar is not produced. We provide an expanded description, illustrations, and distribution map for P. parvifolia as well as a key to the Prosartes of northwestern California and southwestern Oregon.
41425660|Arundo donax L. (Poaceae) is an invasive, perennial grass that grows in many-stemmed, cane-like clumps. It does not produce viable seeds in California and is currently thought to invade habitats rapidly by rhizomes and fragments only. But, during a two-year field study in the Tijuana River Valley, California, expansion of A. donax clumps via rhizomes was slow, only 0.29 m 2 yr, and new recruits from fragments were rare, only 4.7 ha yr. Whereas layering, a mode of spread heretofore ignored by researchers, was common in the flood zone. Layering is the adventitious sprouting of stem tips in contact with the ground. Layering can be considered to be both expansion of a clump (while the layering stem is still alive and attached to the clump) and asexual reproduction (after the layering stem dies). When viewed as clump expansion, layering was 7.4 times faster than the annual expansion via rhizomes. When viewed as reproduction, layering produced 25 times more new recruits than fragments. Layering was therefore an important means by which A. donax was spreading within the flood zone. A new general view of A. donax invasion is presented illustrating that fragmentation is the means by which A. donax invades a new site in the flood zone, expansion via rhizomes maintains an A. donax clump, and layering is the means by which A. donax spreads quickly and episodically within the flood zone. Outside the flood zone, A. donax expands slowly via rhizomes only and no new recruits arrive from either fragmentation or layering. The Tijuana River Valley results challenge the current "top-down" management policy, which presumes that most new recruits come from upstream and that all clumps expand at the same rate. The results show that, on the contrary, most new recruits come from within the habitat, via layering, and that clumps in the flood zone expand faster than those outside the flood zone. I conclude that the top-down policy is counter-productive and suggest that managers shift to controlling A. donax "inside-out," i.e., conduct treatments first inside and then outside the flood zone. In this way, the fastest expanding clumps - those in the flood zone - will be treated first.
41424319|Leaves of the vernal pool species Isoetes howellii and I. orcuttii possess a Crassulacean Acid Metabolism-like pathway while submerged. It is proposed that this was selected because CO availability is greatly reduced during the day in these pools, putting a premium on CO-fixation at night. Diurnal changes in physical and chemical characteristics in two vernal pools are compared with diurnal changes in malic acid concentration in Isoetes leaves. The data are consistent with the hypothesis.
41425676|Effects of prefire stand age, fire intensity, and hillslope position on postfire vegetation recovery during the first two postfire seasons were studied in two contrasting stands of mixed chaparral at San Diego State University's Sky Oaks Field Station (San Diego County, CA). One stand was approximately 60-years old and the other 12-years old when both burned in the July 2003 Coyote Fire. The two stands showed contrasting patterns of postfire community composition among different plant groups based on their modes of postfire regeneration. Fire intensity was significantly higher in the older stand. Increased fire intensity was positively correlated with establishment of seedlings of Ceanothus greggii var. perplexans (an obligate seeder), and negatively correlated with seedling abundance of Adenostoma fasciculatum (a facultative seeder). Hillslope position was also important in determining patterns of abundance, suggesting that soil erosion and deposition following fire may have a significant effect on postfire community recovery on these steep sites. Alternatively, prefire differences in the chaparral community that were correlated with hillslope position may account for these differences. The postfire herbaceous community in the first year was dominated by Phacelia brachyloba, a fire annual. Contrary to expectations, this species was found in greater abundance in the old stand than in the young. Fire annuals were largely absent from the community in the second year, and were replaced in abundance by a variety of opportunistic native and exotic annuals.
41424550|Tumamoc Hill, a 352-ha preserve near Tucson, Arizona, was the site of the Desert Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution of Washington from 1903 to 1940. The present flora of Tumamoc Hill comprises 346 specific and infraspecific taxa of vascular plants compared with 238 listed in a 1909 flora of the hill. Forty-nine of the new additions to the flora are introduced species, many of which colonized disturbed habitats created on the study area after 1940. Many of the species added may have dispersed to Tumamoc Hill from the nearby Santa Cruz River floodplain as a result of artificial wetland habitats created on the hill in recent years. Two species apparently have become locally extirpated since 1909.
41425651|A gridline survey for exotic plant species was undertaken in 1983 and repeated in 2005 at the Desert Laboratory, a 352-ha natural area just west of downtown Tucson, Arizona, USA. Coordinate data gathered during the surveys were used to plot distributions, determine frequencies (number of coordinate locations), and assess percent change. Fifty-two exotic species were encountered in all, 34 in the first survey, 44 in the second. The proportion of ornamental exotics doubled over time, reaching 50% in 2005. Casual, naturalized, and invasive exotics comprised 44%, 40%, and 15% of species found during the surveys. Minimum residence time increased significantly from casual to naturalized to invasive species, suggesting that the longer a species was present, the more likely it was to surmount barriers to naturalization and invasion. In both 1983 and 2005, casual, naturalized, and invasive species differed in mean frequency by an order of magnitude, with casual species having the lowest frequencies and invasive species the highest. Between surveys, frequency of 18 species decreased; most other species increased in frequency. The recent surge in ornamental exotics, combined with temporal trends in invasiveness, indicates that the proportion of invasive species in the flora will increase with time.
41425512|This study examines reproductive isolation and the potential for hybridization between Asclepias speciosa Torr, and Asclepias fascicularis Dene., two species of milkweed that co-occur in the Willamette Valley and in the Columbia River Gorge in Oregon. Since these species are ecologically and geographically sympatric, we investigated whether extrinsic differences in flowering time, insect visitors, and the sizes of floral structures might serve as pre-mating barriers to hybridization. Floral and vegetative characters were measured to confirm species distinctions and to test for possible character displacement in sympatric versus isolated populations of both species. The sizes of pollinia and stigmatic chambers differed significantly between species suggesting strong mechanical isolation in combinations with largeflowered A. speciosa as the pollen donor. Additional post-mating barriers also exist since experimental crosses between speciosa and A. fascicularis yielded seed only with A. fascicularis as the maternal parent. Interspecific pollinations yielded higher fruit-set (35%) than conspecific pollinations (13%) of A. fascicularis, suggesting that pollen tubes of larger-flowered A. speciosa may be more effective in traversing the style, or that insufficient compatible genotypes exist within small, fragmented populations of these species. Seeds from the successful hybrid crosses were comparable to A. speciosa in germination and produced viable hybrid offspring.
41424559|Twelve plant associations are recognized and described for montane meadows of Sequoia National Park based on 81 relevs. Three major groups are defined by growthform dominants: mixed forb and grass associations, Carex and Scirpus associations, and Eleocharis associations. Major environmental factors influencing vegetation distribution include: 1) a complex moisture gradient incorporating water depth and movement, and 2) site exposure and shading. Monitoring of water wells indicates that seasonal fluctuations of the water table are important in structuring the vegetation.
41424425|A new species, Suaeda esteroa, is described from estuaries of southern California and Baja California, Mexico. Although numerous collections of this plant have been made during the last century, it has been confused previously with four other species of the genus. Most frequently, S. esteroa has been identified as S. californica var. californica, a plant restricted to the coast of central California. These two taxa are distinct morphologically, ecologically, and geographically. Recognition of S. esteroa as a species restricted to estuaries of southern California and Baja California emphasizes further the floristic difference between estuaries occurring to the north and south of Point Conception, Santa Barbara County. A key to the coastal central and southern California species of Suaeda is provided.
41424856|The effects of shade and herbaceous competition on the growth of Acacia smallii and Celtis laevigata seedlings were studied using a factorial field experiment. Acacia smallii grew best in full sunlight when there were no competitors. Growth was intermediate in shade alone or in full sunlight with herbaceous competitors and least in shade with competitors. There was a significant interaction between light level and competition for A. smallii, with growth being greater than expected in full sun when competitors were absent. Celtis laevigata seedling growth was not significantly reduced by shade, but was lower in the presence of herbaceous competition. Combined negative effects of shade and herbaceous competition suggest that A. smallii is an early successional species requiring disturbances or vegetation gaps for establishment. Celtis laevigata is a late successional species that is little affected by low light levels, but its growth would be promoted by vegetation gaps in nutrient rich grasslands or below a woody plant overstory.
41425271|Seedlings of Sequoia sempervirens (D. Don) Endl. develop lignotubers as part of their normal ontogeny from detached meristems located in the axils of the two cotyledons. Within four months of germination, each axillary cotyledonary meristem gives rise to a large central bud with two or more collateral accessory buds. As seedlings age, bud and cortex proliferation phenomena associated with lignotuber formation spreads distally to include axillary meristems located immediately above the cotyledonary node. Lignotubers continue to expand throughout the life of a Sequoia, eventually forming massive, basal swellings that are covered with leafy shoots and/or suppressed shoot buds. The Sequoia lignotuber is a specialized organ of regeneration and carbohydrate storage that contributes to the long-term survival of the tree by producing buds that can develop into shoots following traumatic injury to the primary trunk and by generating new roots that increase the stability and the vigor of both young and old trees. In response to a variety of exogenous factors, Sequoia will also produce induced lignotubers, or burls, on the trunks of mature trees as well as on the "layered" lateral branches of young trees, where they come in contact with the soil.
41425266|Dudleya multicaulis (Rose) Moran is a rare geophyte, endemic to the coastal plain of southern California. This species has a patchy distribution associated with the imperiled coastal sage scrub community. We investigate the population size, gene flow, and genetic structure at two different geographical scales; discrete colonies within the University of California, Irvine Ecological Reserve and from eight populations sampled across the range of this species. The objective of this protocol was first to determine what constituted a D. multicaulis population as interpreted from protein electrophoretic data, and second to estimate the population genetic structure and amount of gene flow among populations throughout the geographical range. This kind of information is important for rare species and should be used with any plan designed to protect them from further decline. Our data indicate that all individuals within the University of California, Irvine campus now, or in the past, functioned as one population and it is estimated to be in the order of 1200 individual adult plants distributed over approximately 63 acres. The low population genetic structure and high gene flow found at this scale may be explained by pollen transport between colonies. At the regional level we found there is little gene flow among populations across the range of the species, that there is a high level of intrapopulation genetic variation, but more importantly, that there is significant genetic differentiation among populations. We discuss the implications of our results for the conservation of genetic diversity in D. multicaulis.
41424312|The historical role of fire in the foothill-chaparral and oak-woodland communities of Sequoia National Park must be understood before a management program can be developed that will assure the perpetuation of those community types. Historically, lightning-ignited fires were supplemented by intentional ignitions by Indians and, later, by European settlers. The park fire records since 1920 portray the frequency of both mancaused and lightning fires by year, month, and elevation. Fires have been most common at higher elevations and during summer. This corresponds with the period of maximum drought stress and minimum foliage moisture content. The largest share of the area burned has been within the chaparral community. However, nearly 75 percent of the zone has not burned during this time.
41425817|Fire has become more extensive in recent decades in southwestern United States arid lands. Burned areas pose management challenges and opportunities, and increasing our understanding of post-fire plant colonization may assist management decision-making. We examined plant communities, soils, and soil seed banks two years after the 2005 Loop Fire, located in a creosote-blackbrush community in Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area in southern Nevada's Mojave Desert. Based on a spring sampling of 20, 0.01-ha plots, live + dead cover of the exotic annual Bromus rubens averaged nine times lower on the burn than on a paired unburned area. Perennial species composition shifted from dominance by late-successional native shrubs (e.g., Coleogyne ramosissima) on the unburned area, to dominance by native perennial forbs (e.g., Sphaeralcea ambigua, Bailey a multiradiatd) on the burn. Species richness of live plants averaged 26% (100 m scale) and 239% (1 m scale) greater on the burn compared to the unburned area. Only 5% of Larrea tridentata individuals resprouted, compared to 64% of Yucca schidigera and baccata. Fire and microsite (interspace, below L. tridentata, or below Yucca) interacted to affect several 0-5 cm soil properties, with higher pH, conductivity, and total P and on burned Yucca microsites. Bromus rubens density in 0-5 cm soil seed banks was four times lower on the burn, and its distribution among microsites reversed. Below-shrub microsites contained the most B. rubens seeds on the unburned area, but the least on the burned area. Intense fire below shrubs may have increased seed mortality, an idea supported by > 3-fold decreases we found in emergence density after heating seed bank samples to 100C. Our study occurred after a post-fire period of below-average precipitation, underscoring a need for longer term monitoring that characterizes moister years.
41425650|Various Salsola spp. have been introduced to the USA, and some of these are considered noxious or invasive in certain regions. The genus is taxonomically challenging, and recent morphological, cytological, and molecular work has shown that an unknown taxon, previously identified as S. tragus, but recently temporarily designated as Type B, with unknown origins, exists in California and Arizona. Type B's origins and identity are a point of concern for biological control efforts, as it is much less affected by fungal biological control agents than the sympatric invasive S. tragus. Initial studies in 2005 indicated that Type B is morphologically very similar to S. kali subsp. austroafricana which has been collected in southern Africa. Here we use DNA sequence data from a PEPC intron to compare USA and Old World specimens, and results indicate that S. kali subsp. austroafricana is genetically identical to Type B and distinct from S. tragus. It is unclear if S. kali subsp. austroafricana is native to southern Africa or to the northern hemisphere of the Old World, and further investigations in both regions are needed.
41424897|Uroskinnera almedae, a new species from north-central Oaxaca, Mexico, is described and illustrated. The species is unique in the genus by virtue of its relatively long, red corolla and exserted stamens. The distributional range of Uwskinneraflavida is extended from Tabasco to Chiapas. The range of U hirtiflora is extended from Oaxaca and Veracruz to northern Puebla. A key to all species of Uroskinnera that incorporates data from recent collections of U. flavida and U. hirtiflora is presented.The known distribution of each species is plotted on a map. Se describe e ilustra Uroskinnera almedae como especies nueva de la parte nortecentral de Oaxaca, Mxico. El especies se distingue por su corola larga y roja y sus estambres exertas. Uroskinnera flavida se reporta por primera vez para el estado de Chiapas; tambin U. hirtiflora se registre del estado de Puebla. Una clave de todas las especies de Uroskinnera, que incluye informaciones recientes de colecciones de U flavida y U hirtiflora es presentada. Se provee un mapa que muestra la distribucin de cada una de las especies.
41425502|Insects collected on Pholisma sonorae (A. Gray) Yatskievych flowers in the Algodones Dunes, Imperial County, California, were identified and their pollen loads extracted and categorized as P. sonorae or non P. sonorae. Flowers were present during 3 April to 12 June 2001, most abundant on 16 May 2001, and open during the day. Bembix rugosa J. Parker (Hymenoptera: Sphecidae) was collected during most of the flowering season and carried most P. sonorae pollen but had a low flower constancy (percent P. sonorae pollen). Leptoconops californiensis Wirth and Atchley (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) was collected early in the flowering season when other insects were absent and had a high flower constancy. Aphoebantus sp. near rattus Osten Sacken, Aphoebantus marcidus Coquillett, and Aphoebantus mus Osten Sacken (Diptera: Bombyliidae) were the most-collected insects late in the flowering season and carried low to moderate amounts of P. sonorae pollen. One Toxomerus marginatus (Say) (Diptera: Syrphidae), Toxophora pellucida Coquillett (Diptera: Bombyliidae), Mythicomyia intermedia Melander, Mythicomyia spectabilis Hall and Evenhuis, and Mythicomyia uncata Melander (Dptera: Mythicomyiidae) also was collected. Conserving P. sonorae may require conserving B. rugosa, L. californiensis, and Aphoebantus spp. as pollinators.
43289026|Native plants in most California ecosystems are adapted to fire, but altered fire regimes and disturbance from firefighting activity, such as the construction of firebreaks or firelines, can change plant community composition and the ratio of native to nonnative species. In October 2007, a wildfire burned 710 acres through a chaparral/grassland mosaic on an ecological reserve, providing an opportunity to quantify fire and fireline disturbance impacts on native and nonnative species under differing disturbance conditions. In the spring of 2012 we sampled the plant community in three adjacent sites, focusing on Centaurea melitensis, which is a common nonnative invader after fire in California chaparral. The first site was burned and bulldozed, the second site was burned but not bulldozed, and the third site was not burned or bulldozed. The first site had also been sampled in the spring of 2008. After four years within the burned fireline site, the mean relative cover of C. melitensis decreased from 72% to 28%, but its density increased, and there were increases in the covers of nonnative annual grasses, litter, and native plants. Among the three sites in 2012, both of the burned sites had higher density and cover of C. melitensis and lower relative cover of annual grasses than the unburned site. The only site with notable native perennial presence was the burned fireline. The results of our study suggest that the recruitment of C. melitensis and some native species is promoted by fire. In the absence of additional disturbance by firelines, persistence of these taxa is limited by competition from nonnative annual grasses.
41425648|The Sarraceniaceae are a small family of insectivorous herbs native to North and South America. The family is composed of three geographically separated genera, Heliamphora, Darlingtonia and Sarracenia. Recent molecular evidence suggests that Darlingtonia is sister to a Heliamphora-Sarracenia clade. The systematic relationships among the taxa within the genus Sarracenia are uncertain. Within the S. rubra and S. purpurea complexes, five and four infraspecific taxa have been named respectively. In this study, combined Internally Transcribed Spacer 2 and 26S large ribosomal subunit rRNA gene DNA sequences were used to infer phylogenetic relationships among the genera within Sarraceniaceae and the specific and subspecific taxa within Sarracenia. Results from this study support the sister relationship between Darlingtonia and a Sarracenia-Heliamphora clade. Within the genus Sarracenia, S. purpurea is sister to all remaining species. Additionally, the four named infraspecific taxa of S. purpurea are resolved in a well-supported clade. However, the five named subspecific taxa of S. rubra are part of a polytomy without discernable structure. This study suggests that S. purpurea ssp. purpurea var. burkii (which has been named a separate species as S. rosea) may be considered a distinct species. If so treated, then the number of species of Sarracenia stands at nine.
41425139|We tested the hypothesis that prescribed burning and intense, short-duration grazing of the California annual grassland by sheep would increase emergence and survival of perennial bunchgrass seedlings at the Jepson Prairie Preserve in Solano County, California. Seeds of Nassella (Stipa) pulchra (Hitchc.) Barkworth, either from a bulk seed collection or in three weight classes, were planted along paired transects on two topographic locations with differing soil depth. Treatment combinations that included burning or spring grazing produced higher rates of emergence than other treatments, but only in the first season after the burn. Very few seedlings (0.01%) survived in any treatment to the end of the fourth growing season. Although burning, grazing, and topography influenced the emergence of seedlings, survival to a mature stage appeared to be more strongly influenced by factors not manipulated or monitored in this study. Based on these data, we suggest that recruitment into the N. pulchra population may be strongly influenced by climatic variables and that the effectiveness of management techniques may be dependent on annual climatic variation. Management techniques for increasing N. pulchra populations must account for numerous and potentially specific habitat requirements of seedlings.
41425210|Clarkia mildrediae subsp. lutescens is a newly described subspecies that is readily distinguished from subsp. mildrediae by the color of its anthers which may be bright yellow, yellow-orange, light orange or red-orange on different plants while those of subsp. mildrediae are magenta. Subspecies lutescens has a separate and nonoverlapping geographical distribution primarily in Butte and Plumas Counties where subsp. mildrediae is also found. Within subsp. lutescens, the proportion of plants with bright yellow anthers varies among populations from 98% to none. Bright yellow is homozygous and true breeding and is allelic to red-orange. Plants from populations with high proportions of bright yellow anthers also have shorter and narrower petals. Hybrids between the two subspecies are fully fertile.
41425636|Following our recent discovery of seven new Shasta snow-wreath populations during 2003 and 2004, we conducted a GIS analysis using location data from the new sites, and from all previously known sites to determine the habitat, geologic, and soil characteristics of each Shasta snow-wreath population location. Previously considered a species only associated with limestone substrates, our new information shows that 47% of all known Shasta snow-wreath sites occur on non-limestone geologic or soil types.
41426266|Azorella diversifolia var. antillanca is described as a new variety from Chile. This variety differs from A. diversifolia Clos ex Gay var. diversifolia by its divided leaves and a distribution primarily within the eastern portion of Region XI (Los Lagos). Se describe una nueva variedad, Azorella diversifolia var. antillanca, del Parque Nacional Puyehue, Chile. Esta variedad es diferente de A. diversifolia Clos ex Gay var. diversifolia en la divisin de sus hojas y una distribucin en el este de Region XI (Los Lagos).
41424722|Myrtus alternifolia, a species of long standing uncertain generic affinities, is transferred to Calycolpus. This transfer is based on characteristics of the seed coat, embryo, calyx, anthers, and vessel elements. A revised description of Calycolpus is provided. Myrtus alternifolia, una especie que desde hace mucho tiempo ha sido de afinidades genricas inciertas, se transfiere a Calycolpus. Este cambio se basa en caractersticas de la testa de la semilla, el embrin, el cliz, las anteras, y los elementos vasculares. Se provee una descripcin revisada de Calycolpus.
41425412|RAPD fingerprints were generated from seven wild populations of Juniperus communis L. to assess whether molecular data support subdivision into vars. saxatilis, jackii and sibirica, members of California Floristic Province, and depressa, a component of the Great Basin Floristic Province. Results from UPGMA and Neighbor Joining cluster analyses showed little correspondence between RAPD-derived distances and varietal boundaries. Juniperus communis var. jackii, in particular, was highly heterogeneous, lending support to the hypothesis that the characteristic growth habit of this serpentine dweller (elongated, sparsely branched lateral branches) is environmentally induced. In contrast to the RAPD results, nucleotide sequences of the ITS1 region of nuclear ribosomal DNA were identical in four of five var. jackii individuals sequenced, and the fifth exhibited three base substitutions.
41425812|We describe Arceuthobium abietinum subspecies wiensii (Wiens' dwarf mistletoe, Viscaceae), a dwarf mistletoe that severely parasitizes red fir and Brewer spruce in northwestern California and southwestern Oregon. This classification is based on morphological and host range differences between white fir dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium abietinum f. sp. concoloris), red fir dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium abietinum f. sp. magnificae), and Wien's dwarf mistletoe. Male and female plants of Wiens' dwarf mistletoe were consistently smaller than those of both white fir and red fir dwarf mistletoes, whose plants were about the same size. The shoot color of Wiens' dwarf mistletoe was frequently green-brown or red-brown, while the shoot color of white fir and red fir dwarf mistletoes was typically yellow-green or yellow. Differences in host specificity also distinguish Wiens' dwarf mistletoe from white and red fir dwarf mistletoes. Se describe Arceuthobium abietinum subespecie wiensii (murdago enano de Wiens, Viscaceae), un murdago enano que parasita severamente a Abies magnifica y a Picea breweriana en el noroeste de California y suroeste de Oregon. Esta clasificacin se basa en diferencias morfolgicas y de hospederos entre el murdago enano del oyamel blanco (Arceuthobium abietinum f. sp. concoloris), el del oyamel rojo (Arceuthobium abietinum f. sp. magnificae), y el de Wiens. Las plantas masculinas y femeninas del murdago enano de Wiens son consistentemente ms pequeas que las del murdago enano del oyamel blanco y las del oyamel rojo, las cuales son de tamao similar entre s. E1 color de las ramas del murdago enano de Wiens fue frecuentemente caf verdoso a caf rojizo, mientras que el de los murdagos del oyamel blanco y del oyamel rojo tpicamente fue verde amarillo o amarillo. Adicionalmente, el murdago enano de Wiens se distingue de los otros dos por diferencias en la especificidad de sus hospederos.
41425612|In fire-prone vegetation, non-sprouting, obligate-seeding species depend on a persistent seed bank to reestablish post-fire populations. Thus, for such seeds, seed development and survival in the soil are critical life history stages. The objectives of our study were to examine the structure and composition of Ceanothus seed banks, analyze the viability of seeds in the soil, and determine rates of prdation before and after seed dispersal. This study focused on populations of Ceanothus jepsonii var. albiflorus (J.Howell), which is restricted to serpentine soils. We also included data on Ceanothus cuneatus (Hook.) Nutt., a widespread, non-restricted species, for comparison. We found that the seed bank of C. jepsonii loses seeds due to destruction or removal at several stages of development. Pre-dispersal seed predators attacked 37% of inflorescences included in experimentation and up to 50% of shrubs from which fruits were collected, post-dispersal predators removed over 70% of seeds in the litter. There was a 30% reduction in viability of older intact C. jepsonii seeds in the soil compared to seeds collected from plants during the study. A beetle in the genus Zabrotes, not previously known to oviposit on Ceanothus, was determined to be a causal agent of pre-dispersal seed prdation, with other pre-dispersal predators and parasites also possible. These findings suggest that Ceanothus seed banks are quite dynamic and subject to a variety of seed losses during several stages prior to germination, which may ultimately be responsible for soil seed banks remaining relatively constant rather than building up over time.
41425085|A floristic study of the family Poaceae from Aguascalientes, Mexico has been completed. Sixty-nine genera and 178 species were recorded, of which 43 are new records for the State, most of them from localities difficult of access in the Municipio of San Jos de Gracia. Taxa which represent new records are listed, along with habitat and distribution data for each. Se llev a cabo un estudio floristico de la familia Poaceae en Aguascalientes, Mxico. Se registraron 69 genera y 178 especies, 43 de ellas resultaron ser nuevos registros para el Estado, muchos de ellos colectados en localidades de dificil acceso, en el Municipio de San Jos de Gracia. Se presenta un listado de estos taxa con datos adicionales sobre habitat y distribucin para cada taxn.
41425241|Stipa shoshoneana is a new grass species principally from east-central Idaho, but with a disjunct population in the Belted Range of southern Nevada. Stipa shoshoneana is allied with Eurasian species of Stipa L. sect. Lasiagrostis (Link) Hackel, and with North American stipoids historically assigned to Oryzopsis sensu ampio. Vegetative features, panicles, glumes, anthoecia, and flowers approximate Stipa canadensis Poir., but the lemma callus and awn morphology resemble Oryzopsis pungens (Torr.) A.S. Hitchc.
41424976|A total of 73 plant taxa were identified from three packrat (Neotoma sp.) middens radiocarbon dated between 14,550 and 5020 yr B. P. from Wolcott Peak in Ragged Top, Pima County, Arizona. Most (80.1%) of the plants still grow in the area although only 17.8% still occur at the midden site. Fourteen late Wisconsin woodland/chaparral species (19.2%) were locally extirpated in the Holocene. Today five (6.5%) occur in nearby (< 5 km), five in moderately distant (< 40 km), and four (5.5%) in more distant (90-135 km) mountain ranges. Agave deserti was associated with Juniperus osteosperma, Opuntia whipplei, and Pinus monophylla in the late Wisconsin but their ranges no longer overlap. The Ragged Top flora shifted composition in the Holocene as woodland species died out and Sonoran desertscrub species arrived at different times. Relict populations of Quercus turbinella, Vauquelinia californica, and Yucca baccata reflect cooler, winter-rainfall ice age climates prior to about 8900 years ago. Isolated populations of Echinopepon wrightii, Ipomoea cristulata, and Pisonia capitata were likely established by chance seed dispersals 4000 to 8900 years ago in more subtropical climates of the middle Holocene.
41424926|Cremastopus, a small cucurbit genus, differs from Cyclanthera by only one character, single-seeded fruits. The presence of numerous shared characters between the two taxa indicates that the species of Cremastopus should be transferred to Cyclanthera. Cremastopus, un genero pequeo de Cucurbitaceae, se distingue de Cyclanthera por solo un carcter, frutos de una sola semilla. La presencia de caractersticas numerosas en comun entre los dos grupos indica que las especies de Cremastopus deben de transferirse a Cyclanthera.
41425288|This paper describes the understory light environments and gap dynamics of forests in the watershed of Maddock Creek, Big Basin Redwoods State Park, Santa Cruz County, CA. Most of this 230 ha watershed is covered by old-growth forests representative of upland redwood forests and the Pseudotsuga hardwood forests which intergrade with them. Species of canopy trees include Sequoia sempervirens (D. Don) Endl., Lithocarpus densiflorus (Hook. & Arn.) Rehder, Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirbel) Franco, Arbutus menziesii Pursh, and Quercus chrysolepis Liebm., in descending order of cover. In the understory of these forests, total light was about 12% of that incident upon the canopy. Understory light levels differed between aspects and were influenced by canopy species composition and gaps. Except for Lithocarpus, regeneration of canopy species was associated with higher understory light levels and the species less tolerant of shade {Arbutus, Pseudotsuga, and Quercus) filled more gaps on the south-facing slopes, where light levels were higher. In contrast, Lithocarpus was abundant throughout the understory, present in most gaps at a high cover, and filling twice as many canopy gaps as it had formed. In the presence of surface fires, we suggest that Lithocarpus would not increase in dominance. However, in the absence of fire, our results indicate an increasing dominance by Lithocarpus, and suggest that interspecific differences in shade cast and shade tolerated are contributing to the dynamics of forests in central coastal California.
41424905|The monotypic genus Heterogaura is combined with Clarkia, resulting in the new combination Clarkia heterandra that is placed in a new section Heterogaura. Plants previously described as Clarkia nitens and C. parviflora are assigned subspecific status in C. speciosa and C. xantiana, respectively. The rationale for these changes is presented and possible origins of C. heterandra are discussed.
41425547|Flower longevity interacts with other variables such as pollinator visitation and plant resources to control fruit set and seed production of many flowering plants. This study examined temporal patterns of floral longevity for Opuntia engelmannii Salm-Dyck. (Engelmann prickly-pear), a shrubby cactus common in the northern Sonoran Desert. Observations made at Tumamoc Hill, Tucson, AZ, USA, demonstrated that the flowers can open on a single day or two consecutive days. On average, one-day flowers opened at 1100 hr and closed 5.5 hr later at 1630 hr (MST). Flowers that bloomed on two consecutive days were open altogether for an average of 12.2 hr. Their first day of bloom lasted about 6.5 hr, beginning around 1000 hr and ending at about 1630 hr; on their second day, two-day flowers opened at 0830 hr and closed shortly after 1400 hr. The proportion of two-day flowers in the population was inversely related to maximum temperature on the first day of bloom and minimum temperature between the first and second days of bloom. Flowers opening in the afternoon were more likely to bloom a second day than those opening in the morning. Flowers open for the second time offered significantly less nectar and pollen than freshly opened flowers; nevertheless, rewards on the second day were high enough to encourage visitation by potential pollinators. Patterns of daily opening and closing appeared well suited to reducing the risk of poor or no pollination. La longevidad de flores se relaciona con otros factores como visitas de polinizadores y recursos de la planta para regular la produccin de frutas y semillas. Esta investigacin examina los patrones temporales de longevidad en flores de Opuntia engelmannii Salm-Dyck. (el nopal de Engelmann), un cactus comn del norte del Desierto Sonorense. Observaciones en Tumamoc Hill, Tucson, Arizona, EEUU, demostran que las flores se abren un o dos das. Flores que abren por solo un da abrieron a las once de la maana y cerraron a las cuatro y media de la tarde. Las que florecen por dos das seguidos se quedaron abiertos por un promedio de 12.2 horas en total. Su primer da de floracin dur ~ 6.5 horas, comenzando a ms o menos las diez de la maana y terminando a ms o menos las quatro y media de la tarde. En su segundo da las flores de dos das abrieron a las ocho y media de la maana y cerraron poco despus de las dos de la tarde. El porcentaje de las flores de dos das en la poblacin esta relacionado inversamente con la temperatura mxima en el primer da de floracin y la temperatura mnima entre los dos das de floracin. Las flores que abren por la tarde fueron ms probables de durar dos das que sas que abren por la maana. Las flores abiertas en su segundo da tuvieron menos nctar y polen que flores recin abiertas. Sin embargo, el nctar y polen en el segundo da fueron suficiente abundante para alentar las visitas de polinizadores potenciales. Patrones de abrir y cerrar a diario parecen bien apropriados para reducir el riesgo de polinizacin inadecuada.
41424649|Seed dispersal of Ceanothus cuneatus and C. leucodermis was studied in an oak-woodland community in the central Sierra Nevada of California. As the capsule of Ceanothus (usually containing three seeds) matures and dries, it opens with force and ejects its seeds at varying distances. Seed-casting, in relation to date, showed a skewed polynomial distribution that peaked early in July and gradually tapered off. The active seed-casting period lasted two weeks in the one year of study. Phenology of fruit ripening, temperature, and humidity were related directly to time and rate of seed-casting. About one-third of the seeds fell beneath the canopy, whereas the remainder were cast away from the shrub in an exponential density distribution. Forty-two percent of the seeds (average density of 2850 m) fell at the edge of the shrub and 1.9% (average density of 10 m) at 9 m. The probabilities that seeds would be cast within specific distances from the shrub were 29% (at the edge of the shrub to 2 m), 33% (4-6 m), and 21% (8-9 m).
41426142|Platystemon californiens Benth. (Papaveraceae) is unique among Papaveraceae in producing a multicarpellate, semiapocarpous gynoecium. Seeds are most often dispersed singly, enclosed within a persistent pericarp that forms single-seeded joints. However, all plants in occasional populations are heteromericarpous: they also produce some seeds within the central chamber of the fruit that are dispersed as naked seeds. Naked seeds germinate after a dormant period of approximately four months while enclosed seeds remain dormant much longer under germination conditions used in this study. Differences in germination behavior are controlled by the presence or absence of the persistent pericarp. The diaspores and germination characteristics of P. californiens most closely resemble those of heteromericarpous Cruciferae.
41425355|We studied the crown structure of the Washington Tree (Sequoiadendron giganteum (Lindley) Buchholz) in Sequoia National Park, California. The tree was 77.3 m tall and 9.1 m basal diameter. Its total volume was 1403.2 m , including the main trunk (1357.3 m) and 46 reiterated trunks (45.8 m).The main trunk was hollow, and 133.2 m of wood volume was missing. A 35-m deep, 2-3-m wide pit extended into the heart of the main trunk below 58 m. The microclimate at the bottom of the pit was dark, cool, and humid. Fire and fungal decay apparently contributed to the formation of the pit. Some charred wood was evident throughout the pit, but most of this had fallen away and been replaced by decayed wood. The walls of the pit in the lower 17 m were spongy, wet, and covered by fungal mycelia.
41425243|Surveys of herbaceous flora found in flower in the eastern central Sierra Nevada (Nevada) demonstrated the influence of climate variability on herbaceous phenology and observed species richness. Mid-summer surveys conducted in two climatically different years showed differences in number of flowering species (greater in the wetter year) and their characteristic phenological class (more early-vs. late-flowering species in the wetter year). Between year variation in phenology and species richness appeared to be keyed to snowpack duration, spring and summer moisture availability, and early growing season temperatures. Responses in mesic habitats were greater than in xeric sites. Phenological responses to climate variability can be interpreted in terms of displacement, compression, and amplification of the phenological cycle. Comparison of the two surveys suggests that both displacement and amplification generated observed differences. In the wetter year, late snowpack and lower spring temperatures delayed flowering times and greater spring and early summer moisture resulted in greater observed species richness. Sensitivity of herbaceous species in these montane habitats to year-to-year differences in climate highlights the importance of considering effects of climate variability on phenology and population dynamics in short-duration plant biodiversity surveys and long-term monitoring programs.
41424501|Ten stands of mixed evergreen forest were sampled at 16 locations using belt transects to estimate density and basal area of overstory tree species, and small quadrats to estimate cover of understory species. Physical environmental variables were measured at each quadrat. Ordination based on overstory composition showed four distinct clusters, but that based on understory composition showed little differentiation.The overstory types included Pseudotsuga-harawood and mixed hardwood phases, thus incorporating both north and south extremes of this wide-ranging forest type. No correlation was found between overstory or understory composition and measured site characteristics.
41425293|Vernal pools in the Mayacmas Mountains of southeastern Mendocino County, CA typically occupy topographic depressions related to landslide dams and fissures. A group of pools within a 1290 ha study area range in size from 180 to 3069 m 2 , and are located at elevations between 329 and 902 m on slopes of oak woodland and chaparral. Eryngium aristulatum Jepson var. aristulatum and Isoetes howellii Engelm.codominate shallow, wide-margined pools and are associated with vernal pool specialist taxa such as Gratiola, Navarretia, Plagiobothrys, and Pogogyne. Deep, narrow-margined pools are characterized by cosmopolitan wetland taxa such as Callitriche, Carex, Eleocharis, Juncus, and Ranunculus. Plant surveys conducted in 1996 and 1999 indicate no significant change in species abundance or composition between the two years.
41425811|The names of two eastern North Pacific kelps (Phaeophyceae, Laminariales, Alariaceae) were inadvertently validated by Josephine Tilden on labels to specimens distributed in the exsiccata "American Algae". Lectotypes for Lessonia littoralis and Pleurophycus gardneri, which concomitantly are the types of the names of the monospecific genera Lessoniopsis and Pleurophycus, respectively, are herein designated from among specimens housed in the Herbarium of the University of Minnesota, Tilden's home institution. Lessoniopsis ranges from Kodiak Island, Alaska, to the Big Sur coast of Monterey County, California, whereas Pleurophycus ranges from southeastern Alaska to Pt. Piedras Blancas, San Luis Obispo County, California. Molecular data suggest that both Lessoniopsis and Pleurophycus belong to the Alariaceae, a departure from their previous familial placements in the Lessoniaceae and Laminariaceae, respectively.
41426319|Sidalcea nelsoniana (Nelson's checkermallow) is a federally threatened plant native to wetlands of the Willamette Valley, Oregon, USA. Wise conservation and management of this species requires an understanding of its hydrologie tolerance. Because of extreme habitat loss, the current distribution of this species might not reflect the full range of suitable habitats. The purpose of this study was to test the effect of flooding on S. nelsoniana survival and vigor. Rhizome fragments collected from mature individuals were transplanted into 32 15-cm pots exposed to four artificially maintained flooding conditions: drained soil, saturated soil with no standing water, standing water mid-November through mid-April, and standing water mid-November through mid-June. All plants with drained soil died as the spring rains declined, and all plants flooded past April died by mid-June. Plants in saturated soils and those flooded until mid-April were most successful and similar in survival; number, height, and cover of leaves; and number and height of flowering stems. These two treatments most closely match conditions now found in Willamette Valley wetland prairies, suggesting that the current distribution of S. nelsoniana does reflect its hydrologie tolerance. Management recommendations to flood a population of S. nelsoniana beyond mid-April are likely to harm this protected species.
41425248|Riparian ecosystems in the mountains of southern California are characterized by unusually dynamic conditions of fluvial disturbance, fire, landslides, and other physical processes. Riparian communities and associated wetland habitats make up less than 1% of the land area of the Santa Monica Mountains of southern California but are the primary habitat for nearly 20% of the native vascular plant flora. While the conditions responsible for such high biodiversity has not been well investigated, the dynamic disturbance regime and seasonal availability of water in riparian ecosystems are two critical factors. In comparison to the total native flora of the Santa Monica Mountains, riparian specialists (i.e., those species with their primary ecological occurrence in such habitats) showed a higher relative frequency of herbaceous perennials, and a lower relative frequency of woody shrubs, geophytes, and annuals. Winter deciduous growth habit characterizes nearly 80% of the woody riparian specialists, a far higher level than in comparable non-riparian species. Compound to the total flora, riparian specialists were found to have relatively broader geographic patterns of distribution within California. No rare or endangered species are included in the riparian-specialist flora of the mountains. Biological diversity of native plant species in riparian communities appears to be negatively impacted by human disturbance. Habit modification, weedy exotic species introductions, stream channel modification, and heavy recreational use all appear to lead to sharp reductions in plant species diversity. Without additional knowledge of the demography and ecology of potentially keystone riparian species, it is impossible to accurately model the impact of anthropogenic disturbance regimes on the structure and stability of these riparian ecosystems.
41424740|Pinus lagunae extends from 1200 to 2000 m only on the Sierra de la Laguna, Baja California Sur, Mexico. This study provides descriptions of habitat, soil characteristics, composition and cover of herbaceous vegetation, and physiography. Three forest types are described: one of Pinus lagunae only, the others with Pinus lagunae and Quercus devia.
41424370|The flora of the high montane, subalpine and alpine region of the Sierra Nevada of California is believed to include four derivation categories: Old Cordilleran, Circumboreal, Lowland Californian, and Great Basin Desert. Although these elements have mingled to the extent that species belonging to all four of them can be associated in the same community, nevertheless, they differ from each other with respect to the proportion of Sierran endemics that they have contributed, as well as with respect to growth habits and ecological preferences. The present review is regarded as a preliminary effort to provide a new tool for analyzing the phytogeographic, floristic, and ecological characteristics of the flora.
41426213|Although Olympic Peninsula plants were among the first in the Pacific Northwest to be seen by a European botanist (Archibald Menzies, May 1792), comparatively little botanical attention has been given to the area since then. This paper notes the addition of more than a hundred native taxa that are not attributed to the Peninsula in standard floras of the area (Piper 1906, Piper and Beattie 1915, Frye 1934, Jones 1936, Abrams and Ferris 1940-1960, Hitchcock et al. 1955-1969, Hitchcock and Cronquist 1974) or in other floras whose ranges sometimes include or closely approach the Peninsula (Henry 1915, Hultn 1968, Welsh 1974, Fernald 1970). A number of these additions are included in the regionally published catalog of vascular plants of this area (Buckingham and Tisch 1979).
41424883|Rosa stellate subspecies abyssa, a new taxon from the rims of the Grand Canyon and Kanab Canyon in northwestern AZ, is described and illustrated. It differs from related taxa in having densely bristly hypanthia and densely stipitate-glandular stems.
41424622|This survey includes maps and provides descriptions of the distribution of 22 Pacific Coast temperate trees, including two endemics, in northern Baja California, from the international border south to latitude 30. Ranges were discerned from aerial photographs and verified by field reconnaissance, botanical collections, and a lowaltitude aerial flight. With the exception of mixed conifer and pinyon forests, most forests comprise single tree species that represent fragments of more diverse ecosystems from more mesic areas of California. The rapid decline in the diversity of Pacific Coast temperate trees below the international border reflects strong precipitation gradients associated with orography. Several California tree species have been reported erroneously in northern Baja California due to the misidentification of specimens, or the misinterpretation of common plant names or place names.
41424635|Vegetation on Ring Mountain Preserve, Marin Co., California, was sampled and plant communities were determined according to natural but dynamic boundaries. Six plant communities were identified primarily by their dominant life form: serpentine bunchgrass, mixed broadleaf evergreen forest, non-native grassland, northern coyote brush, freshwater marsh, and freshwater seep. Species composition, percent cover, and frequency of occurrence were recorded, and the percentage of the total flora and areal cover of exotic species was determined for each community. The serpentine bunchgrass community occupied the greatest areal extent and contained the smallest percentage of exotic species, both in frequency of occurrence and cover. In contrast, the non-native annual grassland community, although second in areal coverage, was dominated by exotic grasses and broad-leaved forbs. The remaining four plant communities are lesser components of the total vegetation. These vary greatly in percent cover and frequency of exotic species, which in turn are dependent on the phase of the community and the degree of past disturbance.
41426311|A new moss species, Didymodon eckeliae R. H. Zander, is described from San Diego County in southern California. It is distinguished from its closest relatives in Didymodon sect. Vineales mainly by scalloped and bistratose leaf margins.
41424712|A new species of Astragalus from the White Mountains of Arizona is described and its possible relationships discussed. Its unusual morphology combines features found in two western North American sections of the genus. Morphological evidence suggests it is most closely related to species in section Mollissimi, although it possesses several character states that are unusual in the context of that section.
41425510|In Santa Barbara County, research and restoration on vernal wetlands has historically concentrated on coastal areas. Emerging conservation issues have highlighted the need for more information about the floristic composition of vernal wetlands in the interior region of the County. This paper provides data on the vegetation of the Long Canyon vernal pond complex on the University of California's Sedgwick Reserve collected during the El Nio-dominated winter and spring of 1997-1998. A multivariate vegetation analysis was used to compare the site's species composition with other localities in the region. The analysis was supplemented by a simulation-based error analysis evaluating the potential impacts of species omission on Sorensen similarity distances. Floristically, the Sedgwick Reserve vernal ponds were expected to align most closely with nearby vernal pools in Northern Santa Barbara County. However, the results do not support this hypothesis; rather, the wetlands are most similar to coastal vernal pools along the south coast of Santa Barbara County.
41425250|Cercidium floridum A. Gray ssp. floridum and C. microphyllum (Torrey) Rose & I. M. Johnston (Fabaceae) hybridize where they have overlapping distributions in an area between Earp, and Parker Dam, CA. In this area, the two species have substantially overlapping blooming times, but are normally ecologically separated by habitat requirements with C. floridum ssp. floridum preferring the sandy washes and C. microphyllum preferring the volcanic rocky slopes of the Whipple Mountains immediately adjacent to the washes. The hybrids tend to be found only on the sandy terraces between the wash and the mountains or on the sand dunes in the area. The best diagnostic traits for distinguishing the parental species and their hybrids include leaflet length, banner petal width and color, legume shape in cross section, the degree of constriction between seeds in the legume, and the seed shape in cross section. Introgression from C. microphyllum into C. floridum ssp. floridum may be occurring, but there is presently only limited evidence of any reciprocal introgression. The taxonomic and evolutionary significance of hybridization between these two taxa is discussed. En un rea entre Earp, California, y la represa Parker se han encontrado hbridos entre Cercidiwn floridum A. Gray ssp. floridum y C. microphyllum (Torrey) Rose & I. M. Johnston. Estas dos especies se encuentran separadas ecolgicamente ya que el habitat preferido por C. floridum ssp. floridum esta representado por lechos arenosos mientras que C. microphyllum prefiere las laderas montaosas de la cadena Whipple formadas por roca volcnica que bordean dichos lechos de ro. Sin embargo, en esta zona la distribucin de estas dos especies tienen una distribucin superpresta y adems comparten un perodo de florecimiento comn. Los hbridos se encuentran primordialmente en las terrazas arenosas localizadas entre las montaas y los lechos arenosos o en las dunas que se encuentran en el rea. Los razgos caractersticos mas apropiados para distinguir entre las especies paternas y los hbridos incluyen el largo de las hojuelas folilos, el ancho y color del petalo central superior, la forma del corte transversal de la vaina, el grado de constriccin la vaina entre las semillas, y la forma del corte transversal de la semilla. Aunque se observa una aparente introgresin de C. microphyllum en C. floridum ssp. floridum, evidencia introgresin recproca es limitada. El significado entre la taxonoma y la evolucin de hibridacin de estas taxas se discuten.
41702547|Nomenclature of subdivisions within Phacelia Juss. (Boraginaceae: Hydrophylloideae) reflects an update to the classification of the genus, based largely upon the structure offered in summary by Ferguson. We consider this proposed classification a continuation of efforts to better understand interrelationships within the genus and tribe Romanzoffieae Dumort., and anticipate future research offering insights into systematics of Phacelia. New names, changes in status, and combinations include the following: Phacelia sect. Baretiana Walden & R. Patt., sect, nov.; P. subsect. Bipinnatifidae (Small) Walden & R. Patt., stat. nov.; P. subsect. Cosmantha (Nolte ex A. de Candolle) Walden & R. Patt., stat. nov.; P. subsect. Cosmanthoides (A. Gray) Walden & R. Patt., stat. nov.; P. subsect. Dubiae (Small) Walden & R. Patt., stat. nov.; P. subsect. Eutoca (R. Br.) Walden & R. Patt., stat. nov.; P. sect. Glandulosae (Rydb.) Walden & R. Patt., stat. nov.; P. subsect. Humiles Walden & R. Patt., subsect. nov.; P. subsect. Lineares (Rydb.) Walden & R. Patt., stat. nov.; P. sect. Pachyphyllae Walden & R. Patt., sect, nov.; P. subg. Pulchellae (Rydb.) Walden & R. Patt., stat. nov.; P. sect. Ramosissimae (Rydb.) Walden & R. Patt., stat. nov.; P. subsect. Ranunculacea Walden & R. Patt., subsect. nov.; and P. subsect. Sericeae (Rydb.) Walden & R. Patt., stat. nov.
41424593|Secondary succession in former sheep pastures in the northern California coastal prairie favors cover dominance by perennials, especially grasses. Studies of secondary succession at Sea Ranch, Sonoma County, show that the relative cover is dominated increasingly by Anthoxanthum odoratum, an introduced perennial grass. Native species are not successful at increasing their cover during succession and are unlikely to regain cover dominance in the coastal prairie.
41424680|Lupinus group Microcarpi occurs disjunctly in North and South America, primarily in central California and Chile. This study addresses the question of whether the disjunct representatives, variously referred to L. microcarpus, L. densiflorus, L. ruber or L. subvexus, are distinct. Data for vegetative and floral features were taken from South American specimens and were compared to those from population samples from California. The analyses show that some South American plants are smaller, but in all features have a range of variation within that of California plants. Affinities of the South American specimens were assessed by multigroup discriminant analysis and an a posteriori classification procedure whereby each one was assigned to a population sample from California. The South American specimens were assigned to a few California populations identified as L. densiflorus, L. subvexus and L. ruber, or intermediates between them. Neither floral nor vegetative features can be used to distinguish the South American representatives of group Microcarpi from some North American representatives. Lupinus del grupo Microcarpi ocurre descontinuadamente en Amrica del Norte y del Sur, principalmente en California Central y en Chile. Este estudio se dirige a tratar de resolver la pregunta que si las especies llamadas L. microcarpus, L. densiflorus, L. ruber y L. subvexus son distintas. Los datos de las caractersticas vegetativas y florales fueron tomados de ejemplares sudamericanos y comparados con ejemplares obtenidos de poblaciones en California. El anlisis de los datos indica que algunas de las plantas sudamericanas son ms pequeas que las de California, pero en todas las otras caractersticas, el rango de varacin est dentro del que se obtiene de los ejemplares obtenidos en California. Las afinidades de los ejemplares sudamericanos fueron valorados por medio de un anlisis discriminative multigrupo y un mtodo de clasificacin de posterioridad en el cual cada uno de los ejemplares sudamericanos fueron asignados a una muestra de la poblacin de California. Los ejemplares sudamericanos se asignaron a unas poblaciones californianas identificadas como L. densiflorus, L. ruber y L. subvexus o especies intermedias. Las caractersticas vegetativas y florales no se pueden usar para distinguir entre las especies obtenidas en Amrica del Sur y aquellas obtenidas en California.
41425081|Growth, fecundity and demography of the cactus Coryphantha robbinsorum are described based on a five year study of three permanent plots in Cochise County, Arizona. Four size stages were recognized: seeds, juveniles  11 mm diameter (J1), juveniles > 11 mm diameter (J2), and adults (A). Mean numbers of plants per year per meter 2 were 1.11 in Plots A and C, and 0.70 in Plot B. The number of flowers and fruits produced annually by each adult was determined. The smallest plants to flower (become adults) were 13 mm in diameter. More than half of the plants flowered upon attaining an 18 mm diameter. Large adults produced more flowers and fruits than did small adults. During the five years, over 50% of the fruit produced by the population came from 25 individuals who represented only 23% of the adult population. The average number of fruits produced annually per adult was 1.58  0.89 (mean  1 SD). Number of recruits to J1 was negatively correlated with total rainfall during the 12 months preceding the census. Percent survival of J1 individuals was positively correlated with winter rainfall. Neither percent mortality of J2 and adult individuals, nor fruit and flower production were significantly correlated with preceding summer, winter or annual rainfall. This cactus has a survivorship pattern with a high mortality of seeds (0.9999 individuals per year, estimated based on 33 seeds per fruit) and a decreasing mortality for each stage thereafter (J1 juveniles: 0.209; J2 juveniles: 0.054; adults: 0.027, measured). There were differences between the plots in transition and survival rates measured for the various stage classes. The finite rate of increase () ranged from 1.0036 to 1.0941 for the three plots. The average  for the 3 plots, 1.0464, predicts a doubling time for the population of about 16 years. Elasticity analysis of  to various demographic parameters shows that, during the early 1990' s adult survivorship contributed most (46-87%) to , J2 survivorship and the combined contribution of all growth parameters were less important than adult survivorship in their effect on , and fecundity and J1 survivorship were least important. A simulation experiment shows that a hypothetical increase to 50 seeds per fruit would change the average  from 1.046 to 1.098; and a reduction to 6 seeds per fruit would change  to 1.003. Projection of the matrix model suggests that C. robbinsorum is long-lived. At a stable age distribution, the mean age in the J1 stage is estimated to be 1.1-2.0 years, the J2 stage to be 3.4-5.1 years, and the adult stage to be about 17 years. The mean age of parents of offspring produced in a stable age distribution, , is 17.05 years.
41425696|Changes are made in the nomenclature of species and subspecies in the genus Arctostaphylos (Ericaceae). In this study, the focus is on species found in the coast ranges of California. Changes are made in A. nortensis from the area around the Oregon border with California, in the A. nevadensis complex in the North Coast Ranges, in the A. nummularia complex of the north to central coast, in the A. tomentosa complex of the central coast to the Channel Islands, and in the A. hookeri and A. pilosula complex of the central coast. Also discussed are other changes presented elsewhere that will affect the Arctostaphylos treatment in the next edition of the Jepson Manual.
41425515|Navarretia willamettensis is a newly described species inhabiting vernal pools and similar habitats in the Willamette Valley of western Oregon. Navarretia saximontana is a newly described species inhabiting ephemeral wetlands of the Rocky Mountains, Colorado Plateau and Great Plains. Both species pertain to the N. leucocephala group of N. section Navarretia and have been confused with N. intertexta and N. leucocephala subsp. minima.
41424826|Cirsium parryi subsp. mogollonicum is applied to a local variant of Cirsium parryi discovered on the Mogollon Escarpment, Arizona. The white fresh corollas and nearly entire basal and cauline leaves of this understory, canyon dwelling subspecies distinguish it from the other members of the C. parryi complex that includes the Wooton and Standley segregates, C. gilense, C. inornatum, and C. pallidum, of wet meadows/parklands. Mature leaves of C. parryi subsp. parryi and the Wooton and Standley segretates are sinuately toothed to sinuately lobed and corollas are described as yellowochroleucous. Type material of Cirsium gilense and C. inornatum appears to differ little from variation noted in C. parryi subsp. parryi and perhaps should again be submerged within C parryi. The relatively long, linear, densely pubescent tips of the outer and middle phyllaries noted on the holotype of Cirsium pallidum serve to distinguish this taxon from others in the complex.
41424953|Crataegus monogyna, a hawthorn native to Europe, has successfully invaded much of North America since its introduction approximately 200 years ago. Successful dispersal by avian frugivores, relative to the native biota, may be one reason why C. monogyna is so invasive. To address this hypothesis I compared the attractiveness of C. monogyna and C. douglasii suksdorfii (the native hawthorn) to their primary dispersal agent (American robins) in western Oregon. A companion study in western Oregon (Sallabanks 1993) identified three Crataegus traits correlated with pome removal by robins: pome crop size, mean pome size, and mean pome pulp-to-pyrene ratio. With respect to these dispersal-related traits, C. monogyna was found to be superior to its native counterpart, producing larger displays of higher quality pomes. These results offer an explanation for the observed patterns of distribution and abundance of C.monogyna and C. douglasii suksdorfii at the study site specifically, and in western Oregon in general. To conclude I suggest possible recommendations for management against monogyna and for frugivorous birds.
41424357|Additional collections of Trichostema mexicanum Epling from the Chihuahuan Desert indicate it can be consistently separated from the more wide-ranging T. arizonicum of the mountains of Chihuahua, Sonora and adjacent Arizona and New Mexico. The former has smaller, completely blue-violet flowers and recognizable differences in inflorescence development and vestiture.
41425269|Crotn californicus is reportedly a dioecious plant species. In the present study, monoecious morphs were observed in four populations of southern California. The prevalence of monoecious individuals was moderately low with relative abundance ranging from 2.518.0%. Female plants were more numerous than male plants in two of the four populations with male: female sex ratios ranging from 0.761.22. Individual plants were monitored monthly for flowering during the 1994 season. Though flowers were present throughout the year, their abundance varied widely. Flowering of male and female plants started to increase in January, with rapid increases in the production of flowers and fruits during April. Peak flowering and fruiting for female plants occurred in April and May respectively, while for male plants peak flowering occurred in May. A small, second peak flowering and fruiting appeared in October followed by a drop with almost no flowers produced during December Monoecious plants had a similar seasonal flowering pattern and were on average simultaneously bisexual for 59.6% of the flowering periods. Monoecious morphs also exhibited various degrees of sex expression from almost total maleness to total femaleness in a bimodal distribution pattern skewed towards maleness. This pattern indicates that C. californicus might be dimorphic with phase choices. Flower lifespan differed with gender. Staminate flowers lasted 4.5 d, whereas pistillate flowers lasted 13.2 d and fruits dehisced at 42.3 d. Pistillate flowers and fruits were significantly greater in biomass than staminate flowers. Male plants were significantly larger than female plants for crown diameter, while monoecious morphs were usually significantly larger than either female or male plants. Female plants exhibited higher floral biomass production and reproductive effort than male plants despite their smaller size. Monoecious plants produced more floral biomass than either female or male plants. Spatial segregation of male and female plants was also observed in one population.
41431656|Arundo donax L. (Poaceae) is an invasive grass that severely degrades riparian habitats. It grows in many-stemmed clumps and, in California, spreads vegetatively only. Currently, A donax is thought to invade new areas through fragments broken from established clumps during flood events. But the role of flooding in generating fragments is based on anecdotal evidence only and has not been adequately studied. I examined A. donax clump break-up and reproduction via fragmentation in the Tijuana River Valley, California. I found that: (1) the majority of the new recruits from fragments grew from rhizome fragments (85% of 54) rather than stem fragments; (2) during the record rainfall of 2004 2005, flood waters damaged the rootstock of only a small proportion of clumps in the flood zone (7%; n = 46 clumps), and relatively few recruits from fragments subsequently became established in the valley at large (0.048 recruits 100 m~ 2 ); and (3) during emergency channel maintenance along one tributary, bulldozers severely damaged the rootstock of all clumps growing on the channel bank (n = 3 clumps), and many recruits from fragments subsequently became established downstream of the bulldozer activity (2.92 recruits 100 m~ 2 ; 61 times the number in the valley at large). These results indicate that, in the Tijuana River Valley, flood events only rarely break up A. donax rootstock and wash rhizomes downstream, and bulldozers play an important, and overlooked, role in the break-up and dispersal of A. donax To reduce the spread of A. donax via rhizome fragments, regulatory agencies should require appropriate management practices when bulldozers are used in the presence of A. donax, and land managers should not use bulldozers when attempting to eradicate A. donax.
41425566|A new species, Mentzelia inyoensis H. J. Thomps. & Prigge from Inyo and Mono counties, California and Churchill and Esmeralda counties, Nevada is described and illustrated. Based on chromosome number and floral and seed morphology, we consider M. inyoensis to be closely related to a group of species that include M. candalariae, M. oreophila, M. leucophylla, and possibly M. pumila.
41425551|Hesperocallis is a monotypic genus endemic to western North America, currently classified in Hesperocallidaceae (sensu Angiosperm Phylogeny Group 1998, 2003) but typically placed in Liliaceae (sensu Cronquist 1988) in floristic treatments. On the basis of DNA sequence data, the phylogenetic placement of Hesperocallis is demonstrated to be with Agavaceae, rather than with Alliaceae, Hemerocallidaceae, or Liliaceae as thought by earlier authors based on morphology. Based on these results, we recommend sinking Hesperocallidaceae in Agavaceae within Asparagales. Hesperocallis es un gnero monotpico endmico del oeste de Amrica del Norte. Actualmente, Hesperocallis est clasificado dentro de Hesperocallidaceae (Angiosperm Phylogeny Group 1998, 2003); sin embargo, previas clasificaciones basadas en morfologa lo han situado al interior de Liliaceae (sensu Cronquist 1988). Con base en secuencias de ADN, Hesperocallis esta filogenticamente emparentado con la familia Agavaceae y no con Alliaceae, Hemerocallidaceae o Liliaceae como fue sugerido por previos autores. Como resultado, recomendamos considerar a Hesperocallidaceae como parte de Agavaceae dentro de las Asparagales.
41425059|As obvious as the desirability of collaboration among botanical gardens and herbaria may be, such collaboration is observed generally not to reach optimal levels. The scientific and research goals of herbaria as opposed to the public or broad-service orientation of gardens should not preclude active collaboration. Each needs the other for mutual advocacy. The data management challenges of the two are closely related, and we have reached a point where in effect all well curated natural history collections can be linked electronically into one large pool for sampling and data-retrieval purposes. This comes at a time when the value of living collections is on the rise for chemical and pharmacological research. Education is basic to all botanical activity, and joint programming is richer and is more efficient than the opposite, especially at a time when natural history education is interpretable as increasing in value to human society. If the need for humanity to relate more closely and respectfully to nature drives botany into increasing prominence, the impetus should not impact herbaria and botanical gardens independently, but rather as integrated representatives of botany, plant diversity, biodiversity, and nature.
41702407|Morphological and isoenzyme variation among populations of western azalea, Rhododendron occidentale (Torr. & A. Gray) A. Gray, were examined. Three regional parapatric groups were revealed: 1) the northern California outer North Coast Ranges; 2) the northern California and southern Oregon Klamath Ranges; and 3) the central California Sierra Nevada and southern California Peninsular Ranges. A highly variable but generally intermediate fourth group is restricted to ultrabasic substrates (serpentine) in the middle and inner North Coast Ranges of California. It is comprised of populations with recombined morphologies and alleles that were otherwise restricted to one or more of the three groups above. A revised intraspecific treatment is proposed, with the three regional groups above recognized as varieties. These are: R. occidentale (Torr. & A. Gray) A. Gray var. occidentale (outer North Coast Ranges), R. o. var. paludosum Jeps. (Klamath Ranges), and Rhododendron, occidentale var. californicum (Torr. & A. Gray) Hrusa comb, et stat. nov. (Sierra Nevada and Peninsular Ranges). Lectotypifications of Azalea occidentalis Torr. & A. Gray isotypes at PH and GH, Azalea californica Torr. & A. Gray in Durand, and Rhododendron sonomense Greene (NDG) are also provided.
41424627|A description and illustration are provided for Alloispermum insuetum, a new species from Colombia.
41425807|Human expansion into the Mojave Desert is a significant threat to rare desert plants. While immediate habitat loss is often the greatest concern, rare plants situated near areas where soil surfaces experience frequent disturbance may be indirectly impacted when fine particulate dust accumulates on leaf surfaces. Remaining populations of the federally listed Astragalus jaegerianus (Lane Mountain milkvetch) occur on land open to expanding military activities and on adjacent public land with increasing recreational use. This study was initiated to determine whether dust accumulation could decrease the vigor and fitness of A. jaegerianus through reduced growth. Beginning in early May 2004, plants located on Bureau of Land Management (BLM) land were dusted bimonthly at canopy-level dust concentrations ranging from 0 to 32 g/m, and physiology and growth were monitored until late June when plants senesced. The maximum experimental dust level simulates dust concentrations of Mojave Desert perennials neighboring military activities at a nearby army training center. Average shoot growth declined with increasing dust accumulation, but seasonal net photosynthesis increased. Further investigation of plants grown in a greenhouse supported similar trends. This pattern of greater net photosynthesis with increasing dust accumulation may be explained by higher leaf temperatures of dusted individuals. Ambient dust deposition measured in traps near field plants (May 2004-July 2004) ranged from 0.040.17 g/m/d, which was well below the lowest level of dust on experimental plants (3.95 g/m/d). With this low level of ambient deposition, we expect that A. jaegerianus plants in this population were not greatly affected by the dust they receive at the level of recreational use during the study.
41425586|The new combination Boechera kolboellii (Hornem.) Lve & Lve var. pendulocarpa (A. Nelson) N. Snow is made to accommodate this taxon at the rank of variety in that genus for the Southern Rocky Mountain Flora project.
41425350|Review of variation in morphological characters within and among natural populations and comparisons of greenhouse-grown plants, coupled with high pollen stainabilities in progeny from crosses of plants from different populations, led to the conclusion that Corethrogyne should be treated taxonomically as comprising a single species with two varieties. The revised taxonomy results in the new combination Corethrogyne filaginifolia var. californica.
41425501|This study assessed factors that affect reproductive success in Eriastrum densifolium subsp. sanctorum (Eds), a self-incompatible, endangered, perennial plant. We determined whether seed production was limited by resource allocation or pollinator activity and examined the influence of predation. The literature predicts that pollinator limitation in outcrossers would result if fruit set is less than 33%. We also used a regression analysis to examine the relationship between fruit set and resources or pollinator availability. Reproductive success of Eds appears to be both pollinator and resource-limited and was affected by prdation. Mean fertilization success was high for Study Site One and low for the others. However, Site One had the lowest percentage of fertile seeds and the highest percentage of abortion. We conclude that pollinator limitation occurred up to seven seeds per capsule and above that level resource limitation predominated. Eds on Sites One and Five had the highest percentage of fertility and prdation rates. Clearly, high prdation may influence Eds population growth. Hummingbirds and the Giant Flower Loving Fly were the most common pollinators.
41424207|The status of the rare Utah endemic, Gilia caespitosa A. Gray (Polemoniaceae) was evaluated with respect to morphological and chromosomal data. The possession of a concolorous corolla with included to barely exserted anthers, zonocolporate, reticulate pollen and a chromosome number of 2n = 16 are a combination of characters which suggest a relationship to G. subnuda A. Gray and allies within sect. Giliandra A. Gray. However, the possession of a perennial habit, multicipital caudex and graduated entire leaves characterize G. caespitosa as a distinct taxon.
41424551|The San Juan Mountains are located along the Continental Divide in southwestern Colorado. The only previous floristic study of this range was done in the Needle Mountains of the San Juan Range by Michener (1964). Three cirque basins, representative of the San Juan tundra, were analyzed floristically. A vascular flora of 197 species in 92 genera and 31 families is reported. Eight species are Colorado endemics. The phytogeographic distribution of the flora is primarily alpine and western North American.
41425065|While herbivory probably is a natural part of all terrestrial ecosystems, livestock herbivory is not a natural part of California's natural ecosystems. In California, mammalian herbivores can range in size from small rodents to large ungulates. However, the potential of threats is greater from ungulates, which include native taxa (e.g., tule, Roosevelt, and Rocky Mountain elk, mule deer, pronghorn antelope) and alien livestock (e.g., cattle, horses, burros, sheep, goats). Impacts of the native ungulates are not well studied. There are few, if any, types of plant communities in California that are unimpacted by livestock. Livestock herbivory is a threat to some rare plant taxa. Livestock impacts can include alterations in species composition of plant communities, in ecosystem function, and in ecosystem structure. Although the impacts can be severe, in terms of negative impacts on native plants, carefully managed livestock herbivory may not be the most destructive land use practice.
41424759|Two closely related taxa of the Aristida californica complex differ primarily in having either pubescent or glabrous culms. The pubescent form, A. californica, was described by Thurber in 1880. Eleven years later plants with glabrous culms were named A. californica var. glabrata by Vasey. Hitchcock elevated Vasey's variety to species rank in 1924, a disposition which has been accepted generally by subsequent botanists. To determine whether these taxa merit specific rank, collections from throughout the ranges of both were analyzed utilizing five spikelet characters. Measurements of length of both glumes, lemma, awn column, and free awns revealed a high degree of overlap; for the lemma, the overlap was complete. Chromosome counts (2n=22) are reported for the first time for collections of both taxa. Even though their geographical ranges are reasonably separate, and they tend to occur at different elevations, we conclude that it is more realistic to treat them as varieties of a single species. Dos taxa cercanas, pertenecientes al complejo de Aristida californica, difieren principalmente en la superficie del culmo; una es pubescente y la otra es glabra. La forma pubescente, A. californica, fu descrita por Thurber en 1880. Once aos despus, plantas con culmos glabros fueron llamadas A. californica var. glabrata por Vasey. La ltima taxon fue elevada al nivel de especie por Hitchcock en 1924. Para determinar la categoria ms correcta, hemos analizada colecciones de la distribucin entera para ambas taxa, con la base de cinco caracteres de la espiguilla. Las medidas de longitud de ambas glumas, la lemma, la columna de las aristas, y las aristas libres, revelaron un alto grado de traslapo; para la lemma est fu completo. Se reporta por primera vez el nmero cromosmico (2n= 22) para las ambas taxa. Aunque sus distribuciones geogrficas estn separadas razonablemente y, en general, ellas tienden a ocupar altitudes diferentes, es nuestra opinin que una mejor taxonoma resulta cuando stas taxa estn consideradas como dos variedades de una sola especie.
43289030|The Lomatium triternatum complex is widespread in the Columbia River Basin. Lomatium triternatum (Pursh) J. M. Coult. & Rose var. triternatum and L. triternatum (Pursh) J. M. Coult. & Rose var. anomalum (M. E. Jones ex J. M. Coult. & Rose) Mathias are sympatric throughout much of their range and are reported to have similar fruit but different leaves. Plants of the two varieties repeatedly occur within 5-30 m of each other at an unusual site in northwest Montana, USA. We collected data on leaf and fruit morphological characters and habitat associations at this site to help address whether the proper taxonomic rank for these two taxa should be revised. Terminal leaflet shape and specific leaf area differed between the two varieties with little or no overlap. Fruit mericarp length and width also differed between the two varieties. These patterns are not consistent with treating L triternatum var. triternatum and L. triternatum var. anomalum as sympatric, interbreeding, conspecific taxa. The two varieties of L. triternatum also occurred in different plant communities in spite of growing in close proximity: var. anomalum occurs with tall, leafy forbs, while var. triternatum is associated with xeric-adapted bunchgrasses and cushion-forming forbs. We conclude that the two varieties are better recognized as separate species.
41424873|Analysis of the taxonomic status of Sidalcea setosa and related taxa from the Klamath Mountains of southwest Oregon and northwest California resulted in the following conclusions: (1) Sidalcea setosa should be treated as a synonym of S. oregana var. spicata, (2) Sidalcea virgata should be treated as S. malvaeflora ssp. asprella var. virgata and, (3) the relationship between S. malvaeflora ssp. asprella and S. malvaeflora ssp. nana should be investigated further to determine whether ssp. nana might not be submerged into ssp. asprella.
41425388|Lasthenia Cass. sect. Ornduffia R. Chan is a new section in the goldfield genus Lasthenia (Compositae: Heliantheae sensu lato).
41424536|Mortality of Ceanothus greggii and Adenostoma fasciculatum seedlings during the first growing season after a burn in the southern California chaparral was 92 and 90%, respectively. Survival of these shrub seedlings was not affected by the presence of stump sprouts, which grew at a rate of 2 cm in height per week, or by herbaceous plants (65% cover). However, the presence of annuals reduced the growth of the shrub seedlings significantly. Watering increased seedling growth, but additional fertilizer had no significant effect. Stump sprouting and abundant seedling establishment after fire appear to be main factors that insure maintenance of the shrub species composition of the frequently fire-disturbed chaparral vegetation.
41425433|Fire is an important management tool that is used increasingly to restore natural composition, structure, and processes in semi-arid grasslands, woodlands, and forests of the southwestern U.S.I investigated the effects of fire on floral resources, fruit and seed set, and survivorship of Agave palmeri, an important food source of the endangered lesser long-nosed bat. Nectar production and sugar concentration, pollen and nectar standing crops, and fruit and seed production were measured in flowering plants with leaves damaged by fire and compared with unburned plants at three sites in two different human-ignited fires. In general, no significant differences were found in total nectar production, nectar sugar concentration, standing pollen crops, or fruit and seed set between burned and unburned plants. Standing nectar crops were slightly smaller than total nectar production amounts, but large amounts of nectar and pollen remained available at dawn in both burned and unburned plants. Initial mortality measured across all size classes at one site was only 3.3%. Although levels of burn damage relative to plant size were quite variable, plants with greater damage (61-100%) tended to be < 0.6 m in height and diameter. These results indicate that fire did not appreciably decrease food resources of the lesser long-nosed bat or the reproductive resources and survivorship of A. palmeri. The rocky, low fuel habitats preferred by A. palmen combined with certain morphological and physiological adaptations of the plant, such as a rosette shape and storage of accumulated carbohydrates in the center of the rosette, appear to protect the majority of stored resources within the plant's center during fire events.
41425176|Synoptical keys are sometimes preferred to artificial keys. In the synoptical keys provided here, the 207 genera of composites recognized in The Jepson Manual represent 2 of the 3 subfamilies and 13 of the 16 tribes used in a classification system differing only slightly from that proposed by Bremer in 1994. Of the 207 genera treated in The Jepson Manual, Heliantheae (incl. Helenieae), as circumscribed here, includes 78 (distributed among 17 subtribes) and Astereae and Lactuceae have 33 each. The other ten tribes are represented in The Jepson Manual by 1 to 14 genera each.
41425518|Spartina alterniflora Lois, (smooth cordgrass), native to salt marshes of the eastern US and Gulf coasts was introduced into San Francisco Bay for salt marsh restoration in the 1970s. It subsequently hybridized with the California native  S. foliosa Trin. Many of the S. alterniflora X S. foliosa hybrids are highly fit, with flowering periods that overlap the parental species, and profuse pollen and seed production. Hybrid pollen can sire seed on the native; seed which then disperses by floating on the currents of the Bay. The fittest hybrids are taller, have denser culms, and denser deeper roots than either parental species, and hybrids overgrow naturally open mud and the native salt marsh species. As primary interspecific crosses of the pure parental species are rare, we posit that the hybrid swarm spreads by backcrossing and interbreeding of fit hybrids rather than by primary crossing of pure parental species. The combination of reproductive and ecological superiority is leading inexorably to the conversion of native salt marsh to tall, dense swards of hybrid cordgrass, with deleterious effects upon native species, and on navigation, flood control and other human uses of the San Francisco estuary. Native S. foliosa is virtually absent in marshes where hybrids have grown longest in San Francisco Bay. A few hybrids have colonized north of the Golden Gate, in Marin Co. and San Pablo Bay. Roating seed has the potential to export hybrids and immediately threaten S. foliosa throughout its range in Northern California. We conclude that this suite of characters (reproductive and ecological vigor combined with tidally dispersed seed), will drive rampant spread of hybrids and ultimately could lead to the extirpation of S. foliosa in the San Francisco estuary.
41425655|Trichostema ruygtii is described from Napa County, California. It is closely related to T. lanceolatum Bentham but differs from that species most conspicuously in having much smaller flowers with notably shorter stamens. Both species occur in Napa County but occupy somewhat different habitats and have not been found growing together.
41424809|Penstemon fremontii var. glabrescens, a new variety from western Colorado, is described and illustrated. The var. glabrescens has glabrous or glabrate leaves and narrow deciduous basal leaves unlike the usually pubescent and mostly persistent basal leaves of var. fremontii. Habitats are likewise different and var. glabrescens is found only along the southern edge of the range of var. fremontii.
41426158|Post-fire serai changes in the structure and composition of Abies concolor-dominated vegetation were studied in the northern Sierra Nevada. The major change observed was a shift in dominance from montane chaparral shrubs to Abies concolor. Despite large changes in the dominance of individual species, most species encountered can occur at any point in the sere. Regeneration of shrub species was episodic, occurring only after fire or other disturbance. Abies concolor reproduction was continuous throughout the succession. However, tree density decreased with time as basal area increased to a maximum of 100 to 125 m/ha. All stages of the seral sequence were characterized by greater than 75 percent canopy coverage and a predominantly monolayered structure. On older sites, openings in the canopy caused by tree mortality allowed patchy understory development. Two species groups were detected in association analysis. One group, which contained A. concolor and three montane chaparral shrubs, characterized the early stages of succession. The second group, primarily herbaceous and sub-shrub root parasites, characterized mature A. concolor forests. Polar ordination also revealed two major clusters of stands characteristic of the montane chaparral and forest-dominated phases of succession.
41424365|The Monterey endemic area originated during late Wisconsin and Holocene times. Widespread sandy substrates afforded sites for the origination, by various modes, of new species following population movements into the region. Their sources included taxa a) from forest communities that earlier were in the lowlands under cooler, moister Pleistocene climates, b) from widespread species along the central coastal strip, and c) from interior and southern alliances that probably invaded the area during the Xerothermic. In addition, paleoendemics of wider Quaternary distribution found a haven here under the influence of the Monterey submarine canyon on land climate; it provided an effective local foggy shield from Xerothermic conditions. The paleoendemics include two cypresses and a Pinus radiata population with relatively small cones. By contrast, the P. radiata populations at Ao Nuevo and Cambria, farther removed from a more persistent foggy shield, apparently developed larger cones in response to Xerothermic aridity.
41424574|The potential for post-fire forest regeneration was studied in a 2 ha subalpine burn on Cathedral Peak in Yosemite National Park. The pre-fire forest was a pure stand of krummholz whitebark pine, Pinus albicaulis. Data on stand characteristics, seedling density, height, cluster size, and seedling micro-habitats were collected from five [0-9]  [0-9]68 m belt transects. Three additional transects, 2  61m or 2  76 m, located in the contiguous, unburned forest provided comparative data. Observations and circumstantial evidence suggest that Clark's Nutcracker, Nucifraga columbiana, a bird that buries pine seeds habitually, has initiated the early stages of P. albicaulis regeneration on the burn.
41425679|Intraspecific variation in blackbrush (Coleogyne ramosissima Torr.) seed imbibition was quantitatively investigated in the Mojave Desert. Blackbrush seeds were collected from six isolated mountain ranges, with each range sampled from one high-elevation (1550 m) and one low-elevation (1200 m) location for a total of 12 populations. Under laboratory experimental conditions, seed dry mass and initial seed moisture content did not differ significantly among the 12 populations. Highelevation source seeds imbibed significantly more water than low-elevation source seeds, and this was likely associated with habitat-specific selection. However, differences in full imbibition among seed collection sites at the identical elevation were not significant. Germination of field-collected seeds was similar, ranging from 87 to 93% among the 12 populations. Results of this study suggest that among six isolated mountain ranges in the Mojave Desert, blackbrush seed imbibition varies with elevation, but not with latitude.
41425608|Clarkia stellata Mosquin (Onagraceae) is an uncommon annual herb endemic to Plumas and Yuba Counties in northeastern California that has threatened populations due to noxious weeds, recreational and forest management activities, and development. The purpose of this study is clarify the species identification of populations of Clarkia stellata for management purposes, specifically, populations of C. stellata and C. rhomboidea that are difficult to differentiate in field. A total of 11 populations of C. stellata and related species were sampled for morphometric analyses and nine populations were sampled for genetic analysis using amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs). Clarkia stellata can be separated from C. rhomboidea based on all floral characteristics except claw width, claw length, and isthmus width. These species also can be differentiated based on the following vegetative characteristics: petiole length, leaf length, leaf width, and plant height. The sympatric Clarkia mildrediae is easily differentiated from C. stellata by every character except petiole length, leaf length, and plant height; C.mildrediae differs from C. rhomboidea for all characters except petal speckling, pollen color, leaf width, and leaf length. Populations that were initially difficult to categorize as either C. stellata or C. rhomboidea were most similar to C. stellata; however, we were not able to identify a suite of characters that would distinguish these populations as either C. stellata or C. rhomboidea. An analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) shows that although there was genetic variation among all populations (13.19%), the majority of variation is found within populations (86.81%). Genetic differentiation among all populations was low as calculated by Genetic Data Analysis (st, = 0.132) and Hickory (B = 0.0137); variance within populations was high (sigma-G = 32.645) and between populations was low (sigma-P = 4.96). This work is consistent with a number of studies within Clarkia section Myxocarpa that have identified taxonomic difficulties due to recent speciation, local adaptation, rapid chromosomal evolution, sympatry, and hybridization.
41425647|Tenderfoot Creek Experimental Forest (TCEF) is situated in the Little Belt Mountains of Montana, 120 km east of the Continental Divide. TCEF is composed of 3693 ha at elevations between 1840 and 2420 m and is dominated by lodgepole pine forest, which covers about 3366 ha, with interspersed floristically rich meadows. Our floristic inventory is based on collections and field observations made by Scott Mincemoyer during 19961999 and collections by Jennifer Birdsall during 2003-2005. We also include collections made by Earle Layser in 1992 and Jessica Fultz in 2002-2003. The vascular flora of TCEF consists of 312 species, representing 162 genera and 44 families. Twenty-seven exotic species occur in TCEF including Centaurea maculosa, Chrysanthemum leucanthemum, Cirsium arvense, and Tanacetum vulgare which are listed as noxious weeds in Montana. Phlox kelseyi var. missoulensis is found in the experimental forest and is listed as sensitive by the USDA Forest Service Northern Region.
41425354|Delphinium variegatum is subdivided into three subspecies distinguished by three floral characters. Delphinium v. variegatum is found in central and northern California, while D. v. kinkiense (an endangered taxon) and D. v. thornei are endemic to San Clemente Island off the coast of southern California. Broad variation is documented in most natural populations for all three floral characters. Our results indicate that the two metric characters, lateral sepal length and lower petal blade length, provide no clear distinction between the taxa. Sepal color is the least ambiguous for differentiating the subspecies, but is problematic in distinguishing between D. v. kinkiense and D. v. thornei. Sepal color exhibits a complex pattern of variation on San Clemente Island in which northern populations generally contain primarily light-flowered individuals, southern populations generally contain primarily dark-flowered individuals, and central populations may contain substantial numbers of both light- and dark-flowered individuals as well as intermediates. However, one southern population contains primarily light-flowered individuals, and almost half of the populations contain individuals having sepal colors considered to represent the two different subspecies. Further taxonomic study including additional characters is recommended to determine whether D. v. kinkiense and D. v. thornei should be considered distinct taxa.
41425654|A new species of club cholla (Grusonia robertsii) endemic to the Vizcaino Desert of Baja California Sur is described here for the first time. Distribution, associated vegetation, rarity, affinities to other related species, a botanical illustration, a key to the species in the genus Grusonia of the Lower California region, and a key for the generic reclassification of Opuntia sensu lato as recognized by Wiggins (1980) but currently treated as three different genera in the region are also presented. Se describe aqu por primera vez una especie nueva de casa rata (Grusonia robertsii) endmica del Desierto Vizcano, del estado de Baja California Sur. Se presentan la distribucin, vegetacin asociada, rareza, afinidad con otras especies en el gnero, una ilustracin del nuevo taxn, una clave a las especies en el gnero Grusonia de la pennsula de Baja California, y una clave para la reclasificacin genrica de Opuntia sensu lato de Wiggins (1980), que actualmente es tratada como tres gneros diferentes en esta regin, y que tambin se presentan aqu.
41426199|Rosa woodsii var. maderensis is described from the Sierra de la Madera in central Coahuila, Mexico. It is distinguished by its smaller, glabrous leaves, reduced ovary and stamen number and smaller hips with few fruits.
41424562|Lysichiton americanum Hultn & St. John (Araceae) is pollinated by Pelecomalius testaceum Mann. (Staphylinidae), a rove beetle, which utilizes the inflorescences as a mating site and food source. The fragrance produced by the inflorescences is the first cue in the attraction of the beetles. It elicits in the beetles a search behavior for the yellow color typical of the spathe.
41425818|I investigated the individual and joint effects of simulated herbivory and interspecific competition on survival of Coleogyne ramosissima Torr, (blackbrush) seedlings. Seeds of ramosissima and Bromus rubens L. (red brome grass) were collected at mid-elevations (1220 to 1770 m) of the Spring Mountains in southern Nevada. A pot trial experiment was conducted for six months (27 wk) in a controlled environmental greenhouse. This trial experiment, consisting of a 2 x 2 factorial design with simulated rodent herbivory and interspecific competition with B. rubens as the main effects, resulted in four treatments. Herbivory on ramosissima by heteromyid and non-heteromyid species of rodents was simulated by clipping the top 3 cm of young shoots. Significant interaction was detected between herbivory and competition for C. ramosissima seedling survival. When herbivory and competition were examined independently, both factors had significant adverse effects on ramosissima seedling survival, with the former having greater negative effect than the latter. Results of this study suggest that simulated rodent herbivory and B. rubens competition limited survival independently, and that a combination of herbivory and competition caused synergistic reductions in C. ramosissima seedling survival. Understanding the role of herbivory and plant competition in reducing survivorship of seedlings is crucial to the management and regeneration of ramosissima shrublands in the Mojave Desert.
41424590|Hastingsia atropurpurea Becking was discovered recently along the slopes of the Woodcock and Tennessee Mountains in southwestern Oregon. It is distinguished from Hastingsia bracteosa by a distinct, dark purple perianth, larger bulb size, larger and more robust scape, longer and wider, more glaucous leaves, shorter and more branched racemes, larger number of veins in the leaves, shorter floral and inflorescence bracts, and greater density of flowers in the raceme. It is sympatric with H. bracteosa only at three isolated localities, where there is no evidence of hybridization.
41426234|Ibervillea, a genus of tuberous perennial cucurbits of xeric environments, is closely related to Doyerea, Tumamoca, Halosicyos, and Ceratosanthes. These five New World genera, together with the African Corallocarpus, Dendrosicyos, Kedrostis, Seyrigia, and Trochomeriopsis, form a monophyletic lineage in the subtribe Dendrosicyinae (tribe Melothrieae), defined by the presence of tumescent seeds with reddish aril-like coverings. Ibervillea can be distinguished from the rest of the Dendrosicyinae by its bifid petal apices, which are infolded in bud. Ibervillea is currently considered to have nine species, of which two are new combinations: Dieterlea fusiformis becomes I. fusiformis, and Corallocarpus guatemalensis becomes I. guatemalensis (and is not Doyerea emetocathartica as suggested by previous authors). Ibervillea, un gnero de Cucurbitceas tuberosas, perennes de ambientes xricas, est cercana a Doyerea, Tumamoca, Halosicyos, y Ceratosanthes. Estes cinco gneros del Nuevo Mundo, juntos con los gneros Africanos Corallocarpus, Dendrosicyos, Kedrostis, Seyrigia, y Trochomeriopsis, forman un linea monofiltica en el subtribo Dendrosicyinae (tribo Melothrieae), definada por la presencia de semillas tumescentes con cubertura rojizas como alilos. Ibervillea se distingue del resto de los Dendrosicyinae por los apices bfidos de los ptalos que se envuelven en botn. Ibervillea hoy da se considera comprender nueve especies, de los quales dos son nuevos combinaciones: Dieterlea fusiformis llega a ser I. fusiformis, y Corallocarpus guatemalensis llega ser a I. guatemalensis (no Doyerea emetocathartica como sugeron previos autores).
41424875|Pollen, plant macrofossils, and radiocarbon dates on sediments from a small cienega on Mt. Graham in southeastern Arizona suggest that the occurrence of the present Engelmann spruce-subalpine fir forest on the mountaintop extends back to at least 8000 years ago. This is important biogeographically, since the forest type reaches its southernmost limit on Mt. Graham, and ecologically, as it is the primary habitat of the endangered Mt. Graham red squirrel (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus grahamensis).
41425450|Canopy macrolichens were sampled using the "litter pickup" technique in four forest stands in the mixed conifer forests of Sequoia/Kings Canyon National Park. The purpose was to provide a basis for assessing lichen abundance trends in permanent forest plots, and to compare differences in lichen communities between four forest types typical of the southern Sierra Nevada. Each stand was characterized by a different conifer: sugar pine (Pinus lambertiana Dougl.), white fir (Abies concolor Gord. & Glend.), giant Sequoia (Sequoiadendron giganteum (Lindl.) Buchh.) and Jeffrey pine (Pinus jeffreyi Grev. & Balf.). The standing crop of lichen litterfall was estimated at 33.6 kg/ha, 14.8 kg/ha, 6.9 kg/ha, and 7.6 kg/ha respectively. Seven macrolichens were present in the litterfall, in decreasing order of overall abundance: Letharia vulpina (L.) Hue, Hypogymnia imshaugii Krog, L. columbiana (Nutt.) J. W. Thomson, Bryoria fremontii (Tuck.) Brodo & D. Hawksw. and Melanelia exasperatula (Nyl.) Essl., M. subolivacea (Nyl.) Essl., and Lobaria (Schreber) Hoffm. sp. A single factor ANO VA indicated that L. vulpina was equally distributed throughout the four stands, while H. imshaugii and L. columbiana were not. H. imshaugii was the most abundant lichen in the White Fir stand, although L. vulpina closely approximated it there. L. vulpina was most abundant in the Sugar Pine, Giant Sequoia and Jeffrey Pine stands, and all other lichens were much less abundant. A complex of factors explains the differences in lichen abundance; stand density, stand structure, and tree species composition appear most important, although site environmental conditions cannot be ruled out due to the lack of replication and small sample size in this study. The White Fir and Sugar Pine stands had 23 times the tree density as the Giant Sequoia and Jeffrey Pine stands. Giant sequoia and incense cedar (Calocedrus decurrens (Torr.) Florin) shed bark and therefore do not have abundant epiphytes on branches and tree boles. White fir appears to have a generally positive effect on lichen abundance, except in extremely dense stands. The abundance of H. imshaugii and L. columbiana were highly correlated with abundance of sugar pine. Although species diversity is low, standing crop of lichen litterfall is high, and may exceed many other forests in North America.
41425810|The writing of revised treatments for selected California Malvaceae for the upcoming second edition of the Jepson Manual and the Flora of North America series (volume 6) has made several nomenclatural changes and explanations necessary. New combinations are made here for taxa in Sidalcea, including Sidalcea asprella subsp. nana, Sidalcea calycosa subsp. rhizomata, Sidalcea celata, and Sidalcea sparsifolia. Several taxa previously included within Sidalcea mahiflora have been removed from that species and re-interpreted, resulting in the resurrection and acceptance of the names Sidalcea asprella Greene and Sidalcea elegans Greene. Comments are presented here on the status of Hibiscus lasiocarpos and Lavatera vs. Malva in the California flora. At least one native species has been added to the flora, namely, Iliamna rivularis, though it may no longer occur in the state. Four species of Malvaceae have become naturalized or have been found as waifs in recent years and are added to the flora, namely, Anoda pentaschista, Lagunaria patersonia, Lavatera olbia, and Lavatera trimestris.
41425563|In 1995, the Manual of California Vegetation introduced a quantitatively based method for classifying and mapping vegetation in California. We used this method to develop a classification of vegetation types for Napa County, which we then used to attribute the polygons of a new vegetation map. The new map was produced by on-screen digitizing over USGS Digital Orthophoto Quarter Quads (DOQQ's) with the aid of ancillary digital maps. We identified the distribution of 56 landcover types, 48 dominated by natural vegetation, at the alliance or aggregated alliance level, in 28,456 polygons across 2042 km. The effective minimum mapping unit is below one hectare. The methods used, the mapping classification system developed, and the extents of landcover types mapped are presented. In a comparison with two previous digital vegetation maps for the area, the US Forest Service's CalVeg and the Gap Analysis Program's GAP maps, the MCV map had finer spatial and floristic resolution. The MCV map has 15 more vegetation types than CalVeg and 22 more vegetation types than GAP. The MCV map contains more riparian corridors and isolated wetlands, identifying 157 km of these types, compared to 7 km 2 for CalVeg and a non-spatial result for GAP.
41425079|Kincaid's lupine (Lupinus sulphureus ssp. kincaidii) is the primary host plant of the endangered Fender's blue butterfly (Icaricia icarioides fenderi). Both species are found in remnant upland prairies in the Willamette Valley of western Oregon, a habitat that is threatened by agriculture and urbanization. Enzyme electrophoresis was used to characterize the levels and distribution of genetic diversity in Kincaid's lupine. Eight populations of Kincaid's lupine exhibited high genetic identities (mean interpopulational I= 0.984) and low levels of genetic differentiation among populations (GST = 0.119). Although gene flow between the disjunct populations is limited at present, the species may have had a more continuous distribution prior to the agriculturalization of the past 150 years. At the Baskett Butte site, all plants considered to represent Kincaid's lupine had aleles that were otherwise restricted to spur lupine (L. arbustus). In addition, two clones composed of genetically identical individuals with fixed heterozygosity at four loci were identified at Baskett Butte. We suggest that hybridization between the two species is responsible for these findings.
41425128|A review of the history of vegetation classification in California reveals a serious underestimation of the diversity, extent, and functions of the state's wetlands and consequently, a misrepresentation of the perceived paucity of wetlands in California and the arid West. We review the classification systems of California's wetlands, beginning with early efforts in vegetation typing by the U. S. Forest Service, and illustrate that a detailed comprehensive methodology for the classification and description of wetlands and deepwater habitats is required before they can be protected and managed adequately.
41425511|The hypothesized natural interspecific hybrid origin of two cacti, Opuntia Xrooneyi and O. Xspinosibacca, has been investigated by a variety of non-molecular based techniques. Herein I explore DNA sequence and random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) banding pattern data as it relates to these two cases of putative hybridization. Traditional parsimony-based analyses of nuclear ribosomal and chloroplast DNA sequences do not resolve the phylogenetic position of these two species among closelyrelated taxa, but a median network analysis is presented that yields an approach to interpreting these relationships. Finally, an analysis of RAPD banding pattern data provides evidence of the additive genetic pattern expected for these two interspecific hybrids. These results support the inferences of non-molecular based studies.
41425797|The relationship between Streptanthus vernalis and Streptanthus barbiger (including the taxonomic synonym Mesoreanthus fallax) is examined. Morphological and allozyme comparisons show that the species are unrelated.
41424208|Chromosome numbers are reported for nineteen species of Linanthus, of which 15 are new counts. These establish further the base chromosome number for the genus as x = 9. Based on these counts, polyploidy appears to be extremely rare in annual species of Linanthus.
41425211|Arctostaphylos parryana Lemmon is here circumscribed as a species that includes both non-burl forming and burl-forming taxa. Principal components analysis based on 50 phenetic characters was used to support the recognition of two new subspecies. Arctostaphylos parryana subsp. tumescens Keeley, Boykin, & Massihi is morphologically similar to the nominate subspecies but is distinct in its geographical and ecological distribution, presence of a globose basal burl and erect growth form. Arctostaphylos parryana subsp. deserticum Keeley, Boykin, & Massihi also differs from the nominate subspecies in the presence of a basal burl, and differs from both other subspecies in its intensely glaucous, slightly narrower leaves and smaller fruits and desert chaparral habitat. These subspecies increase the range of A. parryana by > 150 km southeastward, and to the San Bernardino, San Jacinto, Santa Rosa, and San Ysidro mountain ranges and to Riverside and San Diego counties.
41425552|Cortaderia selloana (pampasgrass) and Cortaderia jubata (jubatagrass) are South American perennial grasses species that have escaped cultivation in California and become aggressive invasive species, particularly in coastal environments. Both are characterized by large mounded tussocks, long serrated leaves, and feathery, plume-like inflorescences. While C. jubata is currently restricted to coastal areas in central and northern California, invasive populations of C. selloana can be found both along the warmer coastline of southern California and within interior regions of the state. To better understand the potential geographic distribution of these species in California we examined seedling growth responses to varying environmental factors, including light, temperature, and moisture conditions typical to both coastal and inland California sites. Under growth chamber conditions, both species grew optimally at 20C. However, C. selloana seedlings had significantly greater height and leaf area compared to C. jubata at both 20 and 25C. While temperature did not significantly affect C. selloana survivorship, mortality of C. jubata seedlings was  90% at temperatures above 25C. Using shade cloth to control light intensity, C. selloana seedlings grew more vigorously than C. jubata under the higher light regimes, producing 234% more biomass at full sun. While the relative growth rate of C. selloana increased linearly with increasing light intensities, reaching a maximum of 21.4 mg g day at 1600 mol ms , C. jubata growth rate reached a maximum of 12.7 mg g- day- at 60% full sunlight (960 mol ms-) and did not increase at higher light intensity. Drought significantly reduced growth of both species, but C. selloana was more tolerant of moderate drought than C. jubata. The mean dry weight of C. selloana seedlings was twice that of C jubata when water was withheld for 27 days. When containers were maintained at varying ranges of soil moisture, C. selloana seedlings grew significantly taller and had higher leaf area and average dry weights than C. jubata at moderate drought conditions. The response to temperature, light, and moisture suggests C. selloana has greater potential invasiveness than C. jubata in both coastal and inland areas within the state, particularly in warmer regions. Cortaderia selloana growth was more vigorous then C. jubata under optimal conditions and also demonstrated greater drought tolerance and higher survivorship at increased temperatures and light intensity.
41702548|Dudleya crassifolia is described as new. It belongs to a complex of taxa within subgenus Hasseanthus that have a white (occasionally pale yellow) corolla with a conspicuous, "musky-sweet" odor. It differs from related species of this complex in having a thicker petiole, a leaf blade that is only slightly wider than the petiole, and conspicuous dried leaf bases persisting on the caudex. This species is very rare, currently known only from a single population of scattered individuals (total area of coverage less than one hectare), on sandstone bluffs at Colonet Mesa of north coastal Baja California, Mexico.
41425297|Deinandra bacigalupii is a new tarweed known from alkaline meadows in the vicinity of Livermore, Alameda County, California. The taxon has been treated as conspecific with Deinandra [Hemizonia] increscens, but represents a separate lineage that is morphologically, ecologically, and geographically distinct. Unlike other members of Deinandra, D. bacigalupii combines the following morphological characteristics: proximal primary-stem leaves mostly entire or irregularly lobed, distal cauline leaves mostly narrowly linear or lance-linear, ray florets mostly 8 per head, ray corolla limbs 2-4 mm long, anthers yellow, and disc pappi of highly irregular, erose scales < 1 mm long or reduced to crowns of minute bristles.
41424204|Interspecific hybridization experiments were completed for three of the five species in Melampodium section Zarabellia. Hybrids between the two diploid species, M. gracile (n = 9) and M. microcephalum (n = 9) showed normal bivalent pairing at metaphase I but were highly sterile. The observation of an occasional quadrivalent during diakinesis in these hybrids indicates that at least one reciprocal translocation exists between the genomes of these two diploid species. Artificial hybrids between M. paniculatum, a tetraploid species with n = 18, and the two diploid species were triploid and sterile. Analysis of pairing relationships in the triploid hybrids indicates that perhaps one, but not both, of the diploid species contributed a genome to tetraploid M. paniculatum.
41425030|Flower-insect interaction was studied in three Mexican asclepiad species, a member of the Matelea reticulata complex, Cynanchum foetidum and Funastrum arenarium. In the Matelea reticulata population, flies were the only visitors observed; and they were carrying pollinaria. Several young fruits were found in the population. Only honeybees were seen in the population of Cynanchum foetidum. These naturalized bees did not achieve pollinia transfer, but instead destroyed the flowers they visited. Funastrum arenarium was visited during the day by honeybees, which caused no destruction in this large-flowered species. A heavy perfume, intensifying towards the evening, indicated an adaptation for night-moth pollination. Small night-moths were observed carrying pollinaria. A comparatively high pollinia insertion rate and ample fruit set were observed. En el presente artculo se describen las interacciones entre flores e insectos en tres especies mexicanas de la familia Asclepiadaceae: un representante del complejo Matelea reticulata, Cynanchum foetidum y Funastrum arenarium. En la poblacin de M. reticulata, los nicos visitantes observados fueron moscas. Las mismas transportaron polinarios y la poblacin produjo frutos. La poblacin de foetidum fue visitada exclusivamente por abejas. Estas abejas naturalizadas no transfirieron polinios y destruyeron las flores que visitaron. Funastrum arenarium tambin fue visitada por abejas durante el da, pero no destruyeron las flores grandes de esta especie. Al llegar la noche, el perfume muy dulce de estas flores aument, indicando una adaptacin para la polinizacicin de mariposas nocturnas. Se observo una proporcin de insercin de polinios comparablamente alta, y las planta produjeron amplias frutas.
41424515|A new species, Erythronium elegans, is described from three sites in the northern Coast Range of Oregon. On morphological grounds the species is closely allied with E. montanum of the Olympic Mountains and northern Cascade Range, and with E. klamathense of the southern Cascades. Its variability in certain traits such as flower color, stamen width, and leaf mottling is suggestive of past hybridization with the geographically associated species, E. revolutum.
43288990|We conducted habitat, germination, and population genetic studies to inform management priorities for Phacelia cookei Constance & Heckard (Boraginaceae), a diminutive annual herb known from only four populations near Mt. Shasta in Siskiyou Co., California. Habitat surveys characterized soil, vegetation, and ground cover of extant populations and attempted to identify potentially suitable, but uncolonized, habitat. We were unable to distinguish any sites based on tests of soil characteristics. Nama densum Lemmon occurred at all sites where P. cookei was present. We identified several areas near existing populations that appeared to be suitable, but uncolonized, habitat. We tested the effects of various factorial combinations of after-ripening, scarification, stratification, and variable germination temperatures on breaking seed dormancy. Seed viability by tetrazolium tests ranged between 89% and 93%, but the highest germination from any treatment combination was 14% after adjusting for seed viability. We resolved 19 putative allozyme loci, two of which were polymorphic. Apparent genetic diversity was low both within and among the three sampled populations compared to similar endemic species, and populations were genetically similar. Management plans could consider attempting to expand existing populations by sowing seeds from existing populations into similar habitat.
41424667|Encelia densifolia Clark & Kyhos, from the isolated Picachos de Santa Clara in northern Baja California Sur, is morphologically distinctive, having short peduncles, broad obovate phyllaries, and remotely dentate leaves. Encelia densifolia Clark & Kyhos, de los aislados Picachos de Santa Clara en el norte de Baja California Sur, es distinto morfolgicamente, con pednculos cortos, filarios largos y obovados, y hojas remotamente dentadas.
41702539|The Carquinez Strait region is an area in the northeastern San Francisco Bay Area of California characterized by typical coastal lowland California vegetation dominated by oak woodland, grassland, and coastal scrub. From 1996 through 2010, an inventory of vascular plants was amassed. Of the 795 taxa found within the study area, 13 are ferns, 4 are gymnosperms, and 778 are angiosperms. Of eudicots and monocots, 41% (249) and 46% (79) respectively, are adventives introduced since European colonization. Despite the accessibility of the region and the proximity of institutional herbaria, relatively few collections were made in the study area before the beginning of this study.
41425031|Pollination is crucial to successful sexual reproduction in plants. I studied the pollination biology of the rare shrub Fremontodendron decumbens to obtain basic information on floral traits and behavior, determine the importance of floral visitors to seed production, assess pollen limitation of reproductive success, and identify and characterize the behavior of floral visitors. Flowers opened for about 3 days, and photographs of floral UV reflectance revealed a ring-like pattern that was interpreted as aiding in the efficiency of pollinator visits. Many flowers (25%) were pollinated prior to anther dehiscence, and essentially 100% were pollinated by the time anther dehiscence was completed. Insect visitation was required for pollination. Hand pollination did not increase fruit set but almost doubled seed number per fruit. Even hand-pollinated flowers contained many undeveloped ovules, indicating that pollen limitation was not the only factor limiting seed production. The anthophorid bee Tetralonia stretchii was the primary floral visitor. This species, together with the megachilid bee Callanthidium illustre, accounted for 98% of 1746 observed floral visits. The abundance and behavior of these bees indicated they were the major pollinators of F. decumbens flowers. Given the importance of these bees as pollinators, I concluded that preservation of this rare species must include preservation of its pollinating fauna of native solitary bees.
41425769|Over the past century in California, the invasive weed Salsola tragus (russianthistle) has become a widespread and troublesome pest plant. Early attempts at biological control of russianthistle achieved only partial success. Efforts to improve effectiveness of renewed biocontrol efforts revealed that two distinct, often sympatric, genetic entities comprise what has been called Salsola tragus: Salsola tragus and Salsola' 'type B', Efforts to identify and characterize 'type B' resulted in recognition of a third form, 'type We present a taxonomic and morphological examination of Salsola tragus, Salsola 'type B Salsola' type and Salsola paulsenii using discriminant analysis with DNA sequence genotypes as the taxonomic framework. Salsola tragus and 'type B' were morphologically distinct; 'type C' was morphologically intermediate between them and contained DNA sequence genotypes that were an additive mixture of haplotypes mostly exclusive to tetraploid S. tragus and others exclusive to diploid 'type B' 'Type C' is a fertile allohexaploid that originated via hybridization between S. tragus and' type B We provide a pre-existing name, Salsola australis, for 'type B', and propose Salsola ryanii sp. nov. for 'type Morphological variation, habitats, and dispersal behaviors among these Salsola taxa were examined in the herbarium and in the field. These are compared and discussed.
41424224|In central and south-central Baja California lichen communities change with increasing distance from the Pacific coast. Total lichen cover decreased from 15 percent on the coast to less than 0.5 percent at inland sites, and species richness decreased from 15-25 at coastal sites to three or fewer species inland. On Fouquieria diguetii lichen cover exceeded 60 percent at the coast and decreased to less than 1 percent inland. The presence of this rich lichen community is related to higher atmospheric moisture conditions along the coast. Two lichens absorbed water rapidly and lost water relatively slowly. In preliminary studies the coastal dominant species of this pair maintained a high rate of photosynthesis from 40 to 100 percent saturation whereas the inland dominant exhibited a narrower photosynthetic peak at 3040 percent saturation. It is inferred that the coastal species is adapted to moister conditions.
41425181|Atriplex erecticaulis is a newly described annual species from dry lowlands in south-central California. It is a hexaploid species apparently most closely related to A. cordulata Jepson. All collections have been from Tulare, Kern, and Kings countries in uncultivated areas. Although limited in geographic and ecological distribution it is often abundant in non-cultivated natural areas.
41424476|Several endemics occur on certain substrates in the Owyhee Region of Malheur County, Oregon where normal vegetation is excluded. It has been hypothesized that chemical features of the substrates account for the endemism and exclusion of normal vegetation. Chemical and mineralogical test results presented here lead to the conclusion that physical rather than chemical characteristics account for plant distribution.
41424669|Clitoria subgenus Neuwcarpum sect.Mexicana, sect. nov. is described including ser. nov.Mexicana, Tucumania, and Americana. Section Mexicana is contrasted with sect. Tanystyloba and sect. Neurocarpum.Series Mexicana includes C. humilus Rose, C. mexicana Link, C. monticola Brandegee, C. polystachya Benth., and C. triflora Wats. Series Tucumania includes C. cordobensis Burk. Series Americana includes C. fragrans Small and C. mariana L. A key to species of sect. Mexicana is provided. Se describe Clitoria subgnero Neuwcarpum seccin Mexicana, secc. nov., e incluye las ser. nov. Mexicana, Tucumania y Americana.La seccin Mexicana se contrasta con la seccin Tanystyloba y con la seccin Neuwcarpum.La serie Mexicana incluye, C. humilus Rose, C. mexicana Link, C. monticola Brandegee, C. polystachya Benth. y C. triflora Wats. La serie Tucumania incluye C. cordobensis Burk. La serie Americana incluye C. fragrans Small y C. mariana L. Hay una clave para identificar las especies en la seccin Mexicana.
41426247|Hyperaccumulation of nickel by higher plants (> 1000 g/g in tissue) is closely associated world-wide with serpentine soils. In North America, nine hyperaccumulators have been identified, some from analysis of herbarium samples. Streptanthus polygaloides, found earlier to be a hyperaccumulator on Sierra Nevada serpentines, merited further study. We report on field-collected samples and greenhouse cultures of this and other Streptanthus species. Fresh samples from eight serpentine sites all had more than 1000 g/g of nickel (2430-18600 g/g), clearly confirming the earlier results. Other serpentine Streptanthus spp., collected in the field or grown on serpentines in the greenhouse, had modest nickel levels and could be termed excluders. Greenhouse cultures of S. polygaloides on non-native serpentine soils also accumulated nickel in excess of 1000 g/g. Although field samples of S. barbiger, a Coast Range serpentine endemic, took up low amounts of nickel, this species grown on non-native serpentine soils accumulated nickel (69-1200 g/g). This unusual result is discussed as are the ecological and evolutionary implications of nickel accumulation and nickel exclusion in Streptanthus.
41425582|Most studies of alpine vegetation communities focus on the variation occurring across large scales, in which diverse environmental habitats are assessed across the landscape and detailed plant associations are described. However, community patterns occurring at more intricate scales are easily concealed by such a broad perspective. To complement large-scale studies, we assessed smaller-scale patterns occurring at the extremes of moisture and exposure gradients in an alpine environment. We studied the variation in plant community composition among and within seven ridges extending down two rocky metamoiphic peaks in Yosemite National Park. Species cover and environmental factors (proximity to a summit, elevation, aspect, slope, and substrate size) were sampled in 281 2 X 2-meter plots. Variation among ridges was primarily determined by differences in aspect. Within the ridges, although the physical environment in which we sampled was seemingly homogenous, ordinations identified two distinct vegetation types: (1) high diversity and high cover vegetation (HD), dominated by cushion plants and (2) low diversity and low cover vegetation (LD), dominated by plants in large clumps or small rosettes. In general, LD vegetation was found nearer to the summit and was highly variable in its component species, while HD vegetation was found farther along the ridgeline and was relatively uniform. This non-intuitive pattern in which cushion plants do not dominate the most exposed habitat occurred independent of elevation. Instead, our data suggest that along with changes in rock size and aspect, proximity to a summit is a meaningful factor governing alpine community structure. We discuss the water limited conditions imposed by the absence of smaller rock structure at the summit and how this may allow for only the sparse LD vegetation to persist there.
41425361|Plagiobothrys glomeratus A. Gray is a western Nevada endemic restricted to areas of altered andsite. It is morphologicaly close to P. hispidas A. Gray. Plagiobothrys hispidus is more widespread and shows much variation as to number and size of nutlets. Reports of P. glomeratus from California are based on misidentifications of P. hispidus. Illustrations of the nutlets and a distribution map of both species are included.
41426133|Composition, physiognomy, and development of floodplain vegetation are presented for three age zones of alluvial scrub on the San Gabriel River floodplain. The 19 species sampled are associated with the coastal sage scrub community, but the floodplain vegetation contains an unusually large proportion of arborescent, evergreen shrubs. Dominant species include Rhus laurina, R. integrifolia, Lepidospartum squamatum, Eriog onum fasciculatum, and Opuntia spp. The term "alluvial scrub" is suggested for this type of coastal sage scrub which is common on alluvial fans and floodplains along the San Gabriel and San Bernardino mountains. Mature stands are unusually diverse and appear to represent a climax vegetation that develops following severe, periodic flooding.
41424823|Berberis pimana is described as a new species from the Sierra Madre Occidental, Chihuahua, Mexico. The species appears related to members of Sect. Horridae but is distinguished from other members of this section by its yellow to reddish seeds, shorter and thinner spines, and lack of hypodermal leaf layer. A new combination, Berberis muelleri, is published for the species previously known as Mahonia muelleri. Berbers pimana se describe como nueva especie de la Sierra Madre Occidental, Chihuahua, Mxico. La especie parece emparentada con miembros de la Seccin Horridae pero se distingue de las especies de esta seccin por sus semillas amarillas o rojas, sus espinas ms cortas y ms delgadas, y por su ausencia de estrato hipodrmico en la hoja. Una nueva combinacin, Berbers muelleri, se propone para la especie anteriormente conocido como Mahonia muelleri.
41426279|Systematic methods involving the use of DNA data and genealogical analysis have been widely applied to higher-level phylogenetic questions in plants but much less commonly to discovering plant lineages corresponding to minimal-rank taxa (i.e., species, subspecies, and varieties) or to refining plant classification at the finest levels. Recent research in the Jepson Herbarium integrating extensive field sampling, biosystematic data, and molecular phylogenetics provides examples from the California flora for assessing the value of modern systematic approaches as a means of discovering fine-scale plant diversity. Results have sometimes led to taxonomic changes at the levels most important for biodiversity assessment and have allowed resolution of systematic questions important to establishing conservation strategies. Angiosperm groups newly resolved with molecular data include both morphologically distinctive and morphologically cryptic lineages that have been previously treated within more broadly circumscribed species, subspecies, or varieties. Taxonomic recognition of such newly resolved lineages is often necessary if taxonomy is to reflect monophyletic groups and fine-scale units of biodiversity. To promote discovery, recognition, and conservation of plant lineages, systematists are advised to sample widely within minimalrank taxa (including rare taxa) in the field and in herbaria, to consider previous taxonomies, to voucher all collections, to examine multiple lines of systematic evidence, and to publish taxonomic changes, including nomenclatural changes. Scientists involved in biodiversity management and conservation are advised to regard circumscriptions of all taxa as hypotheses of natural groups, to recognize that those hypotheses are subject to change, and to welcome taxonomic and nomenclatural changes that reflect an improved understanding of natural groups. Conservation biologists are urged to bear in mind that species or infraspecific taxa are not necessarily the minimal units of biodiversity. To conserve evolutionary lineages (and potential for future evolution), plant managers must seek to conserve representative populations of taxa from throughout their geographical and ecological distributions, must resist indiscriminate use of non-local germplasm in restoration efforts, and must consider cryptic biodiversity in regional conservation planning.
41425080|Croton californicus is reported to be a dioecious plant species. Monoecious morphs were observed in five populations in southern California. The prevalence of monoecious individuals was low with a total relative abundance of 2.2%. Female plants were more numerous than male plants in four of the five populations with a total male: female sex ratio of 0.90. Male plants were significantly larger than female plants for crown diameter and plant height while monoecious morphs did not differ significantly.
41425761|Relocation and further study of the local endemic Asclepias zacatecana McVaugh showed that it is conspecific with A. schaff neri A. Gray, a distinct species that previously had been synonymized with A. quinquedentata A. Gray. However, we consider a recently described species, A. rzedowskii W. D. Stevens, to be conspecific with A. quinquedentata. Asclepias schaffneri is lectotypified. El redescubrimiento y estudios consecuentes de Asclepias zacatecana McVaugh, una especie endmica de Zacatecas de distribucin restringida, muestra que es sinnimo de A. schaffneri A. Gray, la cual a su vez ha sido incluida como parte de A. quinquedentata A. Gray. Se discute porqu A. shaffneri es diferente de A. quinquedentata y es el nombre correcto para reconocer A. zacatecana. Sin embargo, se considera que otra especie recientemente descrita. A. rzedowskii W. D. Stevens es a su vez sinnimo de A. quinquedentata. Se lectotipifca A. schaffneri.
41425683|A new combination, Deinandra peninsularis (Moran) B. G. Baldwin, comb, nov., is proposed for D. greeneana subsp. peninsularis of Baja California, Mexico, a taxon that does not belong within D. greeneana, based on recent molecular and cytogenetic work. New chromosome counts for D. peninsularis and D. streetsii and previously reported counts for the other 20 species of Deinandra indicate that all perennial or facultatively perennial taxa of the genus share the modal, and probably basal, chromosome number of 2n = 12 n . A new chromosome count for another member of the tarweed tribe, Arnica mallotopus [= Mallotopus japonicus] (In  19n), in Arnicinae, strongly contrasts with an earlier (somatic) count for that species (2n = 18), which is often treated in a different genus based in part on the previously reported chromosome number.
41425340|Clay dunes are unusual geological features that occur near playas, lagoons, or flats that are sometimes wet but dry out annually. If the sediment in these ephemeral bodies of water contains clay, and if there are strong prevailing winds, flakes or granules of clayey material are transported during the dry season and are caught by edge vegetation. The clay particles moisten in the dew or rain and stick together, eventually creating dunes that support vegetation. Known locally as lomas, the clay dunes along the Gulf coast of Texas and Mexico reach their greatest stature near the mouth of the Rio Grande River, where this study was carried out. These dunes support ecologically unique vegetation assemblages. They sit, like islands, in hypersaline lagoons. Sharp environmental gradients separate halophytes from typical coastal thornscrub vegetation. Endangered animal species such as ocelots live in the thornscrub. Development pressures along the border threaten their existence, and the construction of artificial lomas has been proposed. In this paper I characterize four loma plant communities. The first community is found in the adjacent hypersaline Flats, and is limited to halophytes. The second community is found in lower but still elevated salinities at the Edge of the lomas. At low salinities atop the lomas are the dense Thornscrub community, and a Mixed Halophyte and Thornscrub community that is hypothesized to be the result of disturbance. Analysis of elevation and salinity at plots along transects through the lomas allows me to correlate individual plant species with salinity preferences and community membership. An interesting outcome is that while a number of species have fidelity to one community type, there are quite a few bridging species that are found in two community types. This information has important implications for the degree of precision required when attempting to restore or create the clay dune ecosystem.
41424971|Population Aggregation Analysis of isozyme variation patterns among North American populations of Puccinellia (Poaceae), independent of prior notions of species identity, results in the delimitation of several distinct species, each comprising one or more populations. One of the solitary populations resolved as a distinct isozyme species is the Shasta Co., California, population previously recognized as the sole known population of Puccinellia howellii J. Davis. Isozyme variation patterns thus provide independent confirming evidence that this species is distinct.
41425164|To examine the physiological adaptability of Encelia farinosa var. phenicodonta from southern Baja California, plants from Todos Santos, BCS were raised in central Arizona where winter-spring precipitation is greater than typically experienced by this variety. Plants were capable of high photosynthetic rates during the cool and wet spring months and showed substantial growth and reproductive output. Winter freezes caused severe stem dieback and even plant death. These findings suggest that freezing temperatures may influence the restricted and disjunct distribution of E. farinosa var.phenicodonta in the northern part of its range. The growth and reproduction results also imply that this variety may possess the physiological adaptability to thrive under potential climatic changes in southwestern North America. Para evaluar la adaptacin fisiolgica de Encelia farinosa var. phenicodonta del sur de Baja California, plantas de Todos Santos, BCS, fueron cultivadas en centro Arizona donde la precipitacin de invierno y primavera excede la experimentada normalmente por dicha variedad. Plantas de BCS fueron capaces de altas tasas de fotosntesis an durante los lluviosos y fros meses de primavera y adems mostaron un incremento substancial en crecimiento y reproduccin. Sin embargo, heladas de invierno causaron la muerte de tallos y en un caso severo toda la planta. Estos resultados sugieren que fras temperatures de invierno pueden influir la distribucin de E. farinosa var. phenicodonta en la parte norte de su presente rango de distribucin.Estos resultados tambin sugieren que esta variedad posiblemente posse la adaptabilidad fisiolgica para prosperar ante los posibles cambios climatolgicos en el suroeste de Norte Amrica.
41424821|Five species of Erythronium occur in the Sierra Nevada of California. A new species, E. pluriflorum, endemic to the south-central portion of the range, is described and illustrated. Erythronium pusaterii is elevated to the rank of species from E. grandiflorum and represents the most southern occurrence of the genus for western North America. Distribution and habitat preferences are discussed, and a key for Sierran Erythronium is also provided.
41424963|Trifolium bolanderi Gray. (Fabaceae) is endemic to the central Sierra Nevada of California. Commonly called Bolander's clover, it is a federally designated Category 2 taxon for which sufficient data to support a listing as threatened or endangered are lacking. It occurs within a narrow elevational band in mountain meadows of Mariposa, Madera, and Fresno Counties. To learn more about Bolander's clover, its site characteristics, and its restricted distribution we surveyed all known populations. Concurrently, we examined adjacent sites without the species. Sites with Bolander's clover were like those without it in aspect and degree of shade and in soil texture, bulk density, water, and organic matter. Normal hydrologie regimes occurred on 93% of the Bolander's clover sites; and some, still grazed by livestock, had large clover populations. No plant taxa had a positive interspecific association with Bolander's clover. One species, another clover, was negatively associated with it, suggesting intrageneric competition as a controlling influence. Detailed research on nutrient requirements and availability and soil water relationships may point to characteristics restricting Bolander's clover distribution.
41425845|Based upon a specimen first collected by S. N. Stephenson, a new grass species, Distichlis bajaensis H. L. Bell, is described. Stephenson hypothesized that this specimen was a hybrid between D. littoralis and D. spicata. Analyses of sequences of nuclear internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and chloroplast ndhF and trnL-trnF and an examination of gross morphology, blade and lemma micromorphology, and blade transectional anatomy demonstrate that this grass is a new species that may be sister to the remaining Distichlis. The blades of D. bajaensis are yellow-green; those of D. littoralis and D. spicata are blue-green. Distichlis bajaensis can be distinguished from D. littoralis by its exserted inflorescences with glumes present and from D. spicata by its short (0.8-1.5 cm) blades with a bend toward the adaxial side. At and distal to the bend, there are antrorse hairs along the medial vascular bundle. Distichlis bajaensis is known from a single large population growing along alkaline seeps in Arroyo Rosarito in Baja California, Mexico. Se describe como especie nueva de las gramneas a Distichlis bajaensis H.L. Bell, basada en un espcimen colectado por la primera vez por S. N. Stephenson. Stephenson postul que este espcimen era un hbrido de D. littoralis y D. spicata. Los anlisis de secuencias de ADN nuclear (ITS) y del cloroplasto (ndhF y trnL-trnF), as como los estudios de morfologa general, micromorfologa (lema y lmina) y anatoma (hoja), demuestran que esta gramnea es una especie nueva y que puede ser hermana a las especies restantes de Distichlis. Las hojas de D. bajanensis son amarillentos verdes pero estas de D. littoralis and D. spicata son azulinos verdes. Es posible diferenciar D. bajaensis de D. littoralis por las inflorescencias exsertas con glumas y de D. spicata por las hojas cortas (0.8-1.5 cm) con una curva hacia la cara abaxial. Hay pelos antrorsos a lo largo del nervio central antes del medio. Distichlis bajaensis se conoce de una sola poblacin grande que crece a lo largo de filtrars alcalinas en la localidad de Arroyo Rosarito, Baja California, Mxico.
41425364|Two late-Pleistocene Neotoma (wood rat) middens have been dated by four radiocarbon analyses at 10,000-10,200 and 17,470 radiocarbon years. Both deposits document by numerous macrofossils the abundance of Juniperus californica Carrire, but in the older deposit dominance is shared with Pinus quadrifolia Parl. Both deposits contain lesser quantities of the principal dominant shrub of the California chaparral, the chamise (Adenostoma fasciculatum Hook. & Arn.) together with the shrubby oak, Quercus turbinella E. Greene, and other chaparral genera at about 30N in the northern part of the Vizcaino desert. The existing desert vegetation at both sites is dominated by giant columnar xerophytes and several species of low, desert shrubs, no trace of which has been detected in either of the dated middens. Although abundance of macrofossils of woodland trees with lesser amounts of chaparral shrubs, in conjunction with absence of any species of desert shrub, document a modest displacement of desert vegetation at moderate elevations (550-594 m) in the northernmost Vizcaino desert, this evidence cannot be extrapolated to include the entire peninsula of Baja California. Very substantial biogeographic and ecologically pertinent physiographic evidence suggest a major desert barrier in the central part of the peninsula that also may explain the high degree of endemism in the desert flora. En Desierto Vizcaino, Baja California del Norte, Mexico, en 550-594 m. dos depositos de epoca tardo-Pleistocene con datos 10,000-10,200 y 17,470 anos, documentan con macrofosiles numerosos la presencia de Pinus quadrifolia y/o Juniperus californica, con arbustos de encinal (Quercus turbinella, Adenostoma fasciculatum). Sin embargo, arbustos de desierto moderno ausente en los dos depositos.
43288622|Notholithocarpus denstflorus (Hook. & Arn.) Manos, Cannon, & S. H. Oh (Fagaceae), common name tanoak, has a reputation as a "difficult to work with" hardwood species that has been viewed at different times in history as everything from a valuable resource for edible acorns to an annoying "weed" tree that interferes with commercial forest management. This paper explores the complex character of the species from a wood products point of view and discusses the possibility of developing it as a valuable forest-products resource. A comprehensive review of the forest-product literature reveals the many ways tanoak has been utilized. These uses have included fuel wood, lumber, railroad ties, flooring, and furniture, and as a source for leather-tanning chemicals. Early studies of the physical and mechanical properties of the wood show a similarity to many commercial hardwood species. However, tanoak has never gained the status of a preferred timber tree for forest products. This paper compiles what is known about the wood properties of tanoak and provides recommendations for successful lumber manufacturing. The risks and benefits of utilizing a species that is a known host for Phytophthora ramorum Werres, De Cock & Man in't Veld, the pathogen that causes sudden oak death, are also discussed from a forestmanagement point of view. As interest grows in developing local resources that require little transportation from source to end use, more opportunities for utilizing tanoak will likely emerge.
41425646|In southwestern Oregon and northern California, Jeffrey pine (Pinus jeffreyi) savannas and Darlingtonia fens are part of a mosaic of serpentine soil-related plant communities separated by distinct ecotones. I characterized and quantified the biological and physical aspects of these transition zones. Changes in vegetation were distinguished across communities and across three sites, each a different time since fire, and water discontinuities appeared important for preserving these uniquelyadapted systems, while vegetation undergoes postfire succession from fen to shrub to savanna after approximately 100 years since fire. While many factors play a role in determining the composition and location of community boundaries, the role of water appears to be the most critical factor determining the structure and species composition of the fen and shrub communities in southwestern Oregon.
41425578|Seed bank dynamics are a critical consideration for management of arid and semi-arid shrublands. In the threatened "coastal succulent scrub" vegetation (at Punta Banda, Baja California), we studied the seed bank's composition and size, as well as its dynamics as shown by field emergence and as inferred from literature reports on germination. We also analyzed sampling effort for both seeds and seedlings. The seed bank was sampled just prior to the rainy season, with 130 soil units of 7-cm diameter x 1-cm depth distributed systematically over 1.66 ha. The field samples were mixed together then laboratory samples (17 of 14 cm) were taken for manual extraction of seeds. We found 25 species, mostly of shortlived herbs. Some obvious species of the local flora were not encountered. Overall density was approximately 11,807 seeds m, but densities differed by more than 100-fold among species. Analysis of sampling effort suggested that only 8-12 laboratory samples were needed to approach estimated asymptotes of the density of seeds and the number of species. Seedling emergence was recorded during four months on 30 randomly distributed and caged plots of 361 cm. We found 22 species, mostly short-lived herbs. Most species were uncommon and the density per plot of all species was highly skewed. Modes per plot were 3-4 species and 129-256 seedlings. Analysis of sampling effort suggested approximately 15 plots were needed to approach estimated asymptotes of the density of seedlings and the number of species. Published information on seed germination was found for 75 species which have been reported from coastal succulent scrub in the Punta Banda area. Apparently, fire-related cues were required for germination in only 13% of these, while most species may require only moist winters. However, longterm dynamics of the seed bank, and its geographic variation, remain to be studied. La dinmica del banco de semillas es un tema crucial para el manejo de matorrales de zonas ridas y semi-ridas. Estudiamos el tamao y la composicin del banco de semilla de matorral costero suculento en Punta Banda, Baja California. Tambin observamos su dinmica, en la aparicin de plntulas en el campo e inferida de reportes en la literatura sobre la germinacin. Analizamos el efecto del esfuerzo de muestreo, ya que es el primer estudio del banco de semillas en matorral costero mediterrneo. El banco de semillas fue muestreado justo antes de la temporada de lluvias, con 130 unidades de 7 cm dia X 1 cm de profundidad y distribuidas sistemticamente sobre 1.66 ha. Las muestras de campo fueron mezcladas, luego se tomaron muestras de laboratorio (17 de 14 cm) para extraer las semillas manualmente. Encontramos 25 especies, principalmente de hierbas de corta vida; no se encontraron varias especies conspicuas de la vegetacin local. La densidad general fue aproximadamente 11,807 semillas m , pero entre las especies las densidades variaron por ms de un factor de 100. Anlisis del esfuerzo de muestreo sugiri que el nmero de especies y la densidad total de semillas fueron adecuadamente estimados con 8-12 muestras de laboratorio. La aparicin de plntulas fue registrada durante cuatro meses en 30 cuadrantes enjaulados (de 361 cm) distribuidos aleatoriamente. Encontramos 22 especies, principalmente de hierbas de corta vida. En su mayora, las especies fueron escasas y la densidad total por cuadrante fue altamente sesgada; se presentaron modas de 3-4 especies y 129-256 plntulas. El anlisis del esfuerzo de muestreo sugiri un muestreo adecuado con 15 o ms cuadrantes. Se encontr informacin publicada sobre la germinacin de 75 especies que se encuentran en el matorral costero suculento del rea de Punta Banda. Disparadores de la germinacin relacionados con incendios fueron reportados, como obligatorios, en slo el 13% de las especies. Aparentamente la mayora de las especies germinan con cualquier invierno hmedo. No obstante, la dinmica a largo plazo de las especies y la biologa de sus semillas, quedan por investigarse.
41424960|Postfire regeneration of Adenostoma and Salvia dominated chaparral was studied in adjacent sites burned by wildfire once, twice, or three times in the past six years, at intervals of 1, 4, and 6 yr prior to the study. The following combinations of burning were: 1 yr ago (previous burn was > 20 yr); 1 and 6 yr ago; 1, 4, and 6 yr ago; 4 and 6 yr ago; and 6 yr ago. Marked changes in community composition occurred as fire frequency increased. On the site that burned only once in the past several decades the dominant shrubs Adenostoma fasciculatum and Salvia mellifera established abundant seedling populations in the first growing season after fire. Seedling establishment the first season after fire was 62% (S. mellifera) to 83% (A. fasciculatum) less on the site that had also burned 6 yr previously and zero on the site that had burned 1, 4, and 6 yr ago. The suffrutescent (chamaephyte) Lotus scoparius, likewise showed the lowest seedling establishment on the site burned the most frequently, however, it did best on the site burned 1 and 6 yr ago. Although Adenostoma fasciculatum resprouts after fire, there was some mortality after each fire and thus the number of resprouting shrubs diminished as fire frequency increased. Postfire annual species, in general, were abundant on all sites burned 1 yr ago, regardless of the prior fire frequency. Non-native species such as Brassica nigra, Bromus spp., and Schismus barbatus were poorly represented on the 1 yr old burn that had not been repeatedly burned in recent years. In general, as fire frequency increased, these non-native weeds increased dramatically. It is suggested that high fire frequency has played an important role in the establishment of these weeds and conversion from shrub-dominated to herbaceousdominated ecosystems in the California landscape.
41424589|Morphological and phytochemical studies support the segregation of the zygomorphic-flowered species previously included in Langloisia as a separate genus, Loeseliastrum (Brand) Timbrook. The two genera differ in aspects of their leaf bristles, corolla, stamens, pollen, trichomes, and capsules, and by the type of flavonoids present. Similarities of leaves, calyces, and growth habit are thought to be due to convergence in strongly selective desert habitats. Two species are recognized in Loeseliastrum, Lo. matthewsii (= Langloisia matthewsii) and Lo. schottii (= Langloisia schottii), and one species with two subspecies in Langloisia, La. setosissima subsp. setosissima and La. s. subsp. punctata. Chromosome counts for all taxa are 2n = 14. A key and descriptions of the taxa are included.
41424654|Three new taxa of Dudleya from California are described: Dudleya cymosa subsp. agourensis, D. cymosa subsp. crebrifolia, and D. abramsii subsp. affinis. Three new combinations of Dudleya also are proposed from California: D. cymosa subsp. pumila, D. cymosa subsp. paniculata, and D. abramsii subsp. calcicola. Dudleya gigantea is reduced to a synonym of D. cymosa subsp. cymosa and D. minor is reduced to a synonym of D. lanceolata. A neotype is designated for Echeveria cymosa Lem. (= D. cymosa subsp. cymosa).
41425329|Hedeoma matomianum grows at 1400 m on Cerro Matom, just south of the Sierra San Pedro Mrtir. Two other species also grow in Baja California, both endemic: H. tenuiflorum Brandegee in the Sierra San Borja and H. martirense Moran in the high Sierra San Pedro Mrtir. Hedeoma matomianum differs from both in its bushier habit and more compact inflorescence and in its shorter corolla (9-12 mm vs. 17-18 and 19-25 mm). Wiggins' Flora of Baja California (1980) lists only the Hedeoma of the Sierra San Borja; but it is misnamed as H. nanum Briq. subsp. californicum W. S. Stewart, which is not known in Baja California. That plant resembles H. matomianum in habit but differs in its less compact inflorescence and its smaller calyx and its shorter corolla (8-9 vs. 9-12 mm). Hedeoma matomianum crece a 1400 m en el Cerro Matom, inmediatamente al sur de la Sierra de San Pedro Mrtir. Otras dos especies, ambas endmicas, crecen tambin en Baja California: H. tenuiflorum Brandegee en la Sierra de San Borja y H martirense Moran en la Sierra de San Pedro Mrtir. Hedeoma matomianum difiere de ambas en su hbito ms arbustivo, su inflorescencia ms compacta, y su corola ms corta (9-12 mm vs. 17-18 y 19-25 mm). La Flora de Baja California de Wiggins (1980) lista slo la especie de Hedeoma de la Sierra de San Borja, pero la nombra incorrectamente como H. nanum Briq. subsp. californicum W. S. Stewart, la cual no es conocida en Baja California. Esta ltima planta (H. nanum subsp. californicum) se parece a H. matomianum en hbito, pero difiere en su inflorescencia menos compacta, cliz ms pequeo, y corola ms corta (8-9 mm vs. 9-12 mm).
41425253|Vegetation was quantified for clearcuts, age 4-32 yr, of Abies magnified Andr. Murray old-growth forests along the west face of the central Sierra Nevada. TWINSPAN analysis of 113 sites  87 common taxa generated six ecofloristic units mainly related to each other on a time-since-harvest basis, but also exhibiting correlations with slope, elevation, latitude, soil depth, harvest area, and ratio of edge-to-area. Nearly half the taxa showed non-random distributions among the TWINSPAN units, but only a minority of those could be related to time since harvest. The herbs Gayophytum diffusion Torrey & A. Gray, Phacelia hydrophylloides A. Gray, and Sidalcea glaucescens E. Greene were most significantly associated with pioneer sites age 4-10 yr since harvest, whereas the shrubs Ceanothus cordu-latus Kellogg and Ribes roezlii Regel and the herb Viola pinetorum E. Greene were most significantly associated with later serai sites 16-32 yr since harvest. CCA ordination diagrams arranged the 113 sites along a continuum, rather than breaking them up into units, and this approach also revealed a strong relationship between site vegetation and time since harvest. The general path of early succession did not show dramatic floristic shifts nor was there any significant change in species richness over time. The first 32 yr of secondary succession probably represents only one-seventh the time necessary to attain old-growth status.
41425302|We examined northern coastal scrub vegetation in relation to canopy gap formation, zonation and topographic relief on coastal escarpments (bluffs) in San Mateo County, CA. Vegetation was sampled in quadrats, along line transects and within gaps in the canopy of the dominant shrub Baccharis pilularis DC. (Baccharis gaps) on three topographically distinct coastal bluffs. Baccharis gaps were also sampled for area, light penetration, distance from the bluff edge, and residual branch height. Thirty-seven species were encountered in quadrats at the three sampling sites. Baccharis pilularis and Eriophyllwn staechadifolium Lagasca were the dominant species, together comprising 67% cover at the three sites. Canopy gaps averaged 0.96 m 2 in area and occupied 58% of the area sampled. Species composition and relative abundance was strongly influenced by percent canopy gap. Cover of Scrophularia californica Cham. & Schldl. was found to increase with increasing percent canopy gap. Thirty-eight percent of species occurred exclusively in quadrats dominated by canopy gaps. Species richness showed a positive relationship to percent canopy gap and to Baccharis gaps with greater light penetration. Line transects indicated distinct species and gap zonation on the three bluff sites sampled. Differences in species composition, species relative abundance and vegetation height were also found among the three coastal bluff sites. At the spatial scale of an individual bluff, our results suggest that canopy gaps and zonation are important in maintaining the diversity of northern coastal scrub in San Mateo County. Variation in topographic relief among neighboring bluff sites also appears to play a role in maintaining species diversity at larger spatial scales.
41425854|Previous investigations into the morphology of Pyrrliatriformis sensu lato in northern Idaho and adjacent Washington have revealed two distinct morphologies that correspond to their geographical ranges. These same populations and individuals have been analyzed using AFLP data. Over 400 loci were identified among all individuals using two sets of AFLP adaptors. The data are in agreement with the morphological data and separate the populations from the Snake River Canyon/Camas Prairie from those of the Palouse grasslands. Data clustering methodologies using both presence/absence data for all individuals and allele frequencies for each population produced similar results. We suggest the name P. scaberula be resurrected to encompass the populations from the Snake River Canyon and Camas Prairie.
41425760|Dissanthelium californicum (Nutt.) Benth. (Poaceae) is an annual grass known only from Santa Catalina and San Clemente Islands, off the coast of Southern California, USA, and Guadalupe Island, off the coast of Baja California, Mexico. It had not been recorded since Blanche Trask collected it in 1903 on San Clemente Island, and was therefore considered to be extinct, possibly as a result of overgrazing by introduced goats on these islands. During monitoring by the Catalina Island Conservancy from March through July 2005, D. californicum. was discovered growing in seven diverse and widely spread locations on Santa Catalina Island. The rediscovery may be a result of the removal of feral goats and pigs from the island, record-breaking rainfall, and increased exploration of remote areas. A revised description of the species and a summary of its habitat preferences are provided. Thorough monitoring and surveying of known and potential locations will be necessary to better determine the conservation status of the species. Dissanthelium californicum (Nutt.) Benth. (Poaceae) es una gramnea anual conocida slo de las islas Santa Catalina y San Clemente, que se encuentran cerca de la costa del Sur de California, USA y de la isla Guadalupe, localizada cerca de la costa de Baja California, Mxico. Esta especie no ha sido reportada desde que Blanche Trask la colect en 1903 en la isla San Clemente, y por lo tanto ha sido considerada como extinta, posiblemente como resultado del sobre pastoreo de cabras introducidas a las islas. Durante el monitoreo realizado por la organizacin Catalina Island Conservancy en los meses de marzo a julio del 2005, D. californicum fue redescubierto creciendo en siete diversas y muy distantes localidades de la isla Santa Catalina. El redescubrimiento podra haberse dado debido a la eliminacin de las cabras y cerdos de la isla, a la lluvia sin precedentes y el aumento de exploracin en reas remotas. Una descripcin revisada de la especie y un resumen de su preferencia en habitat son proporcionadas. Riguroso monitoreo e inspeccin de localidades conocidas y potenciales sern necesarios para una mejor determinacin del estado de conservacin de la especie.
41425499|Vernal pools are temporary wetlands typical of regions with mediterranean climates. Within a region, variation in substrate and topography of vernal pools may expose plants to varied soil moisture and salinity conditions. We examined the effects of soil moisture and salinity on germination, growth, flowering, and mortality of a California endemic vernal pool annual, Lasthenia conjugens E. Greene (Asteraceae). We collected seeds from three source populations and subjected them to two moisture treatments and three salinity treatments under greenhouse conditions. We detected significant differences in germination, growth, floral initiation, and mortality among source populations, moisture treatments, and salinity treatments. We also found evidence of significant population by treatment interactions for germination and floral initiation in the salinity experiment, suggesting that source population affects viability under varying salinities. Increased salinity generally had detrimental effects on germination and growth rates of seedlings, but populations varied in their responses to the salinity treatments. We conclude that 1) because source populations varied in their response to soil moisture and salinity, seed source for population reintroduction should be carefully selected, and 2) moisture and salinity treatments produced strong effects on L. conjugens seeds and seedlings. Thus, year-to-year variation in rainfall, soil salinity, and inundation of individual pools may significantly affect the performance of L. conjugens individuals and populations.
41702388|The following nomenclatural combinations in Phacelia (Boraginaceae) are established: P. campanularia A. Gray var. vasiformis (G. W. Gillett) Walden & R. Patterson, stat. nov.; P. imbricata Greene var. bernardina (Greene) Walden & R. Patterson, stat. nov.; P. imbricata Greene var. patula (Greene) Walden & R. Patterson, stat. nov.; and P. nemoralis Greene var. oregonensis (Heckard) Walden & R. Patterson, stat. nov. Typification and clarification of nomenclature is provided for Phacelia floribunda Greene and Phacelia phyllomanica A. Gray. Synonymies are provided for all names.
41425823|Phacelia cicutaria Greene var. hubbyi (J. F. Macbr.) J. T. Howell warrants elevation from varietal to species status based on morphological evidence. It is distinguished morphologically from P. cicutaria var. cicutaria and P. cicutaria var. hispida (A. Gray) J. T. Howell by its more robust habit, more densely congested inflorescences, lack of mottled markings on the corolla, longer stamens and style, thick shaggy hairs on the stems and leaves, and calyx lobes that closely invest the fruit.
41426154|Lomatium oreganum and L. greenmanii, two rare species endemic to the higher Wallowa and Blue Mountains of Oregon, are morphologically and ecologically separate and behave as distinct taxa. The taxonomic affinities of these plants are not well known, but we speculate that they include ties to several Lomatium species of the Basin and Range province of Utah, Nevada, and eastern California.
41425255|Shrubs in the genus Salvia are often dominants in Coastal Sage Scrub communities throughout southern and central California. Salvia mellifera E. Greene (black sage) tends to be more abundant near the coast with a more northerly distribution, whereas S. apiana Jepson (white sage) tends to occur farther inland and ranges much farther south. In areas of local sympatry in southern California, S. apiana is more frequently observed on south-facing slopes. It has been suggested to be better able to withstand drought conditions than S. mellifera, because 5. apiana occurs in what appear to be more xeric sites. In addition, in areas of sympatry, somewhat fertile, morphologically intermediate hybrids form. We tested the hypothesis that S. apiana is better able to withstand drought than S. mellifera, and that hybrids are physiologically intermediate, by measuring predawn and midday water potential every month over 15 months at a site in the Santa Ana Mountains. Salvia apiana had statistically higher water potentials than S. mellifera during summer drought, and the hybrid exhibited intermediate values. The ability of S. apiana to maintain water potentials of 3 to 4 MPa greater than S. mellifera supports the hypothesis that S. apiana can better avoid summer drought. This difference in water relations may account in part for the distributional patterns of these two species.
41424255|Five plant communities are recognized from the western Pursima Hills, Santa Barbara Co., California: closed-cone pine forest, douglas-fir forest, oak grassland, chaparral, and coastal sage scrub. The distribution of each community with respect to substrate type, fire history, and exposure was examined by mapping a 9.3 km 2 area. Bedrock geology and exposure were the principal factors affecting the distribution of the closed-cone pine forest and douglas-fir forest. Both communities were found primarily on north slopes of diatomaceous shale. To a lesser extent the other communities were most common on particular aspects and substrates: oak grassland grew mainly on gentle slopes, chaparral was predominant on south slopes of sandstone, and coastal sage scrub occurred on argillaceous substrates. The one recorded fire within the area had no recognizable affect on the sharp ecotones between communities.
41425326|Trifolium beckwithii Brewer ex. S. Wats, is widespread in the Sierra Nevada and northern Rocky Mountains but five disjunct populations have existed for at least a century in a considerably different habitat in eastern South Dakota. Genetic divergence of these populations was expected. RAPD profiles were compared between South Dakota and two montane populations. Unexpectedly, measures of genetic similarity between South Dakota and northern California populations were twice as great as those between South Dakota and southern Idaho populations. These data can be interpreted as an indication that T. beckwithii has been introduced relatively recently into South Dakota from a population genetically similar to the one sampled from northern California.
41425867|Lomatium tamanitchii (Apiaceae), is a newly discovered substrate-specific, narrow endemic species. The species grows on clay soils in grassland swales and gentle slopes in the Columbia Hills of eastern Klickitat County in south-central Washington State. A small disjunct occurrence has also been recently recognized in Union County, Oregon. The species is most typically distinguished by a multibranched caudex surmounting a large, thick, blunt-tipped taproot. It is identified by its sparsely to densely short hairy leaves with broadly winged petioles, and its narrowly elliptical dorso-ventrally compressed fruits that have short hairs and distinct narrow raised ventral ribs. Lomatium tamanitchii is clearly distinct from all other species in the genus as based primarily upon gaps in characters of fruit morphology and vestiture. Populations occur in dense near-monocultures strictly confined to shrinkswell soils derived from devitrified silicic volcanic ash on massive landslide deposits. The known range of L. tamanitchii is restricted to a small area in eastern Klickitat Co., Washington and several hundred plants in a newly-discovered disjunt population approximately 180km distant in Union Co., Oregon. This limited distribution raises conservation concerns. Lomatium tamanitchii is compared with morphologically similar taxa growing in nearby areas of the Columbia Basin.
41425413|Maps and text describe current distributions of 19 conifer tree species in southern California. Distributions are related to climate, geology, terrain, and other aspects of the environment. Corrections to earlier published descriptions and maps are highlighted. Although species are discussed as components of six vegetation types (closed-cone conifer forest, foothill woodland, mixed evergreen forest, pinyon-juniper woodland, mixed-conifer forest, and subalpine forest), the distribution maps are for species, not vegetation. Species limits correspond to a density as low as 1 tree of the species of concern per 10 ha. Some changes in distribution over the past century, primarily due to fire, can best be interpreted and understood when a species is placed correctly in one of three models: shifting populations, standing populations, and patch mosaic populations.
41424300|Malephora crocea, native to Cape Province, South Africa, has been naturalized in southern California at least since 1946, but is not mentioned in California floras. Misidentified specimens have served as the basis for incorrect reports of other species. We document the historical occurrence and current range of M. crocea in California and provide a morphological description, illustration, and comparison with other ice plants.
41424539|Mimulus norrisii, a new cliff-dwelling species from the Sierra Nevada foothills primarily in Sequoia National Park, Tulare County, California, is described and illustrated. The new species is ecologically similar and morphologically closest to M. dudleyi in sect. Paradanthus but differs in its moister habitat requirements, leaves with attenuate bases and less serrate margins, and in particular the smaller calyces that develop conspicuous enlarged and rounded ribs.
41426365|We investigated patterns of infraspecific variation among populations of Pedicularis densiflora, including populations formerly recognized as P. densiflora subsp. aurantiaca. Several statistical analyses (UPGMA, ANOVA, and PCA) were conducted on floral traits measured in the field. All three statistical analyses indicated consistent differences in floral morphology among populations. These differences were confirmed by a review of over 1000 herbarium specimens. Two series of populations were separated, and two species recognized, Pedicularis aurantiaca and P. densiflora. Pedicularis aurantiaca had large calyces with floral tubes included at anthesis, reduced lower labia, and enlarged galea openings. Pedicularis densiflora had short calyces with fully exserted floral tubes, enlarged lower labia, and smaller galea openings. Taxonomy, phenology, and floral differences are discussed in the context of previously published data on pollinator visitation.
41424205|Fifty-eight percent of the herb species recorded on recently burned sites of chaparral in southern California are to be found in the understories of southern coastal sage scrub stands that have not burned for seven years or more. Because coastal sage scrub is found near chaparral at lower elevations throughout southern California, it may serve as an important seed source for the herbland phase of chaparral succession after fire. The dispersal of seeds from sage scrub to chaparral lands each year provides an alternative to the hypothesis that post-fire herbs arise from seeds that have remained viable in situ for the 4090 years or more that may intervene between fires. At the same time, it would appear that mechanisms such as increased shading, or possibly allelopathy, act to inhibit the germination of herb seeds under mature chaparral canopy. The large degree of similarity between the understory flora of mature coastal sage scrub and the post-fire flora of chaparral challenges the notion that the latter are mostly "pyrophyte endemics". The possibility of a partial dependence of chaparral succession on dispersal from coastal sage scrub suggests a new argument for the conservation of coastal sage scrub areas, remaining examples of which are currently endangered by development pressures.
41424189|A population of unusually short Orthocarpus faucibarbatus ssp. albidus plants in a closely grazed sheep pasture on the coast of northern California was studied. Branches were gently ascending and basal instead of erect from the upper stem. Seeds from this population were grown inland where wind buffeting, salt spray, cooler temperatures, close grazing, different host plants, and limiting soil were reduced or absent. The resulting plants closely resembled the parent population in both branching form and height. Shortness in this ecotype was due mostly to shorter rather than fewer internodes. Analysis of mean internode lengths in several coastal and inland populations showed significant differences between the grazing ecotype and all ungrazed populations, and between coastal and inland populations. Because this species is shade intolerant and an obligate outcrosser, close sheep grazing is beneficial in reducing the height of associated plants, allowing greater exposure to sunlight and insect pollinators. The harsh, spiny, rosette leaves of Eryngium armatum afford enough protection for the lower flowers and seed capsules of this herbaceous annual to prevent its demise through overgrazing.
41425473|Throughout its native range, the California poppy, Eschscholzia californica, exhibits substantial morphological and life-history variation, including variation in seed dormancy and ability to perennate. Populations from xeric southern California habitats have high seed dormancy over a range of habitats that span from coast to desert and across vegetation types of varying fire frequency. Understanding variation in the cues that break dormancy in this species is especially important to managing natural populations with prescribed fire, and in production and use of local ecotypes for restoration, erosion control, and ecological landscaping. We explored the influence of sequential treatments of low temperature and components of fire (heat, dry smoke, smoke water, a commercially concentrated smoke water we call "liquid smoke", charrate, and nitrate) on seed germination for both annual and perennial populations and compared results to those of widely used domesticated seeds. We also examined the effect of light and seed age. Domesticated seeds had no seed dormancy and, except for heat-treated seeds, germination was close to 100% across treatments, including water controls. In contrast, seeds of all wild southern California populations showed some dormancy, germination was highly conditional on test factors, and light inhibited germination. We found differences in dormancy rates among wild populations and years since seed collection, with annuals having higher dormancy than perennials in the first year following collection but not after aging > two years. Of the fire treatments, heat (85C for 10 min), or heat plus smoke, resulted in significantly reduced germination and viability of all populations tested, including domesticated seeds. All smoke treatments significantly improved germination of dormant-seeded populations over water controls, but neither nitrate, water soaking, charrate, nor cold treatment alone broke dormancy. In the absence of cold treatment, both liquid and dry smoke yielded higher germination than controls in seeds aged 8-10 months (65-95% for liquid smoke, 2160% for dry smoke, vs. 14-59% for controls). Moist cold treatment (39C) by itself did not usually break seed dormancy but it did act synergistically to increase germination of smoke-treated seeds and did not harm controls. In contrast, for most populations colder pretreatment (~2C) resulted in a small decrease in germination of water controls but not in seeds smoketreated before cold treatment. Seed age affected germination of controls and the ability of smoke to break dormancy. Germination of controls and smoke-treated seeds increased between 2 and 4 mo of aging in the lab, with no further increase at 8 mo. Dormancy of controls was substantially higher in seeds aged in the lab > 27 months from collection relative to seeds aged 8-10 months (n = 7 and 5 populations, means = 92% and 63% dormant, respectively). Smoke succeeded in breaking dormancy of older seeds to half the extent as in younger seeds, suggesting either a decline in germinability as seeds degrade, induction of a deep secondary dormancy, or both. Given the large differences between domesticated and wild populations in dormancy and germination requirements, and that seed dormancy is probably heritable and adaptive, non-dormant domesticated seeds are not appropriate for restoration, especially in xeric environments that naturally support plants with dormant seeds.
41424480|A new species, Antennaria aromatica, from Montana and Wyoming is described and compared with the morphologically similar A. media, A. umbrinella, and A. alpina.
41424922|The only known population of the rare Sonoma spineflower, Chorizanthe valida, is a colony within a coastal grassland subjected to cattle grazing. Exclosures were constructed and baseline data taken in and outside of the exclosures over four years. Inside the exclosures, C. valida demonstrated considerable phenotypic plasticity and experienced a remarkable population decline. Percent cover transects inside the exclosures revealed a 65% non-native plant cover. Outside the exclosures C. valida continued to thrive with cattle apparently grazing the non-native plants but not C. valida. A cattle grazing regime therefore had a positive influence on the perpetuation of a rare, endemic plant. C. valida seeds were sown into nearby grazed plots and monitored for three years. C. valida continues to reproduce on these sites. Soil analyses were performed for nutrients, pH, texture, and salinity. Recommendations for the management of this rare species are given.
41424525|The identity and circumscription of species of Cracca Bentham in the United States are confused in the literature. As clarified herein, two species of Cracca, C. glabella (Gray), comb, et stat. nov. and C. sericea (Gray) Gray, occur in the United States, where they are restricted to oak woodlands and associated grasslands of southeastern Arizona.
41425264|Relationships between the two California alpine species of Polemonium (P. chartaceum H. Mason and P. eximium E. Greene) as well as their species limits have been uncertain for many years. We sought to clarify these issues through multivariate analysis of floral and foliar characters. We made 16 measurements on each of 159 plants from populations throughout the ranges of P. chartaceum and P. eximium, and from populations of two putatively related species, P. elegans E. Greene from the Cascade Range and P. viscosum Nutt. from the Great Basin and Rocky Mountains. We used multidimensional scaling (MDS) to summarize in three dimensions patterns of variation with regard to the 16 measured variables. We used discriminant analysis to test the robustness of patterns identified in heuristic interpretation of the MDS. Our results suggest populations from the Klamath Range, White Mountains, northern Sierra Nevada (Sonora Pass), and southern Sierra Nevada each form distinct morphological-geographical entities. Patterns of similarity among these groups suggest that P. chartaceum and P. eximium warrant taxonomic revision, and that populations of P. chartaceum from throughout its range have affinities closer to P. elegans than to P. viscosum.
41425130|Wetlands of the central and southern California coast and coastal watersheds belong to one of five major systems: marine, estuarine, riverine, lacustrine, or palustrine. A methodology for classifying these wetlands has been developed by Ferren et al.(1996b) as a modification of the Cowardin et al. (1979) approach. Use of this methodology during a three-year study resulted in the identification of wetlands from this region based on various abiotic and biotic descriptors and arranged in a hierarchical and numerical classification. Dichotomous keys to the higher classification rankings of system, subsystem, and class provide a way to access a catalogue of example wetland types and key additional wetlands.
41425831|Hazardia orcuttii (A. Gray) Greene is a 5-10 dm tall perennial shrub that is native to coastal sage scrub communities of southern California and northern Baja California. This species was listed as threatened by the California Department of Fish and Game in 2002 and is a federal candidate species, and the only known population in the U. S. is on a 1.6 ha mesa located in Encinitas, California. Very little is known about the general ecology of this species, thus, the goal of this research was to characterize the basic soil physical and chemical properties and plant community characteristics associated with this species. Research was conducted between January 2004 and July 2005 in 12.56 m randomly-located plots that either contained or lacked H. orcuttii. Soil in plots containing H. orcuttii had significantly higher clay, soil organic matter, total N, and soil moisture content than plots lacking H. orcuttii, while plots lacking H. orcuttii had significantly more surface litter content. Significant differences were also observed in plant species abundance between plots containing and lacking H. orcuttii, indicating fundamental differences in plant community composition associated with patches of H. orcuttii. Our data support the notion that H. orcuttii is a soil endemic; however, it is unclear whether H. orcuttii prefers soil richer in clay or is restricted to these soils because of other factors. Given the restricted nature of H. orcuttii, and the proximity of the extant population to residential areas, habitat protection from human degradation and fire should be a high priority. Hazardia orcuttii (A. Gray) Greene es un arbusto perenne que mide 5-10 dm de alto que es nativo a la comunidad perteneciente de la salvia chaparro costeno en el sur de California y el la parte fronterizo de Baja California Norte. Esta especie fue enumerada como una que cata bajo de amenaza por el Departamento de California pescaderia y casa en el 2002, y la unica poblacion en los Estados Unidos, esta en una mesa de 1.6 ha ubicado en Encinitas, Calif. Poco se sabe sobre la ecologia general de esta especie, asi, el fin de esta inverrstigacion era de caracterisar las propiedades basicos fsicos y quimicos de la tierra y las carecteristicas planta associadas con esta comunidad de esta especie. Invistigaciones fueron condujidos entre Enero 2004 y Julio 2005 en 12.65 m en parcelas establecidas al azar unos conteniendo y otros careciendo H. orcuttii. Tierra en parcelas conteniendo H. orcuttii tenian significativamente alto niveles de barro, mater organica del suelo, nitrogeno total, y contenido de humedad del suelo que las parcelas careciendo H. orcuttii tenian significatimante mas contenido de revoltura al superficie. Diferencias significativas fueron observados en la abundancia de especie de plantas entre parcelas conteniendo y careciendo de H. orcuttii, indicando diferencias esenciales en el compuesto de la comunidad de las plantas asociado con parches de H. orcuttii. Nuestros datos apoyan la nocion que H. orcuttii es endemica de la tierra sin embargo, no es claro si H. orcuttii prefiere tierra rico en barro o esta limitado a esta tierra por otros elementos. Dado por la naturaleza limitado de H. orcuttii, y la cercania de la proximidad de una poblaciones que existe en areas residenciales, proteccin de los hbitos degradantes causados por la humanidad y el fuego derian ser de alta prioridad.
41426367|The names Swertia recurva Sm. and Halenia recurva (Sm.) C.K. Allen are typified by a specimen of a species native to Colombia. The correct name for the western North American species that has been called H. recurva is H rothrockii A. Gray. Se typifcan los nombres Swertia recurva Sm. y Halenia recurva (Sm.) C.K. Alien por un espcimen de una especie indgena de Colombia. La especie de Norteamrica occidental la quc ha se llamado H. recurva correctamente se llama H. rothrockii A. Gray.
41425702|Field studies and herbarium analyses of populations of Potentilla L. sect. Graciles (Rydb.) A. Nels.with atypical petiole vestiture result in the description of Potentilla gracilisDouglas ex Hook. var.owyheensis as a new variety, differing from var. elmeri and var.flabelliformis in having cottonytomentose vestiture on the petioles instead of appressed to spreading straight hairs. The new variety grows in mid-montane meadows from the Owyhee Mountains in southwestern Idaho to the Ochoco Mountains in northeastern Oregon. It is conceivably of hybrid origin, with Potentilla breweri S.Watson providing the petiole vestiture that is otherwise unknown in Potentilla sect. Graciles. The study also resulted in the improved understanding of Potentilla bruceae Rydb. as a relatively coherent taxon centered in meadows around Lake Tahoe, California. As a result, Potentilla bruceae, Potentilla drummondii Lehm., and Potentilla breweri are recognized as distinct species, with Potentilla subvillosa Rydb. and Potentilla anomalofolia M. Peck as synonyms of Potentilla bruceae. Potentilla versicolor Rydb. is also recognized as a distinct species related to P. breweri but differing in having straight silky hairs rather than cottony tomentum.
41424908|Astragalus tegetarioides is taxonomically redefined following recent discoveries of several new sites for this uncommon milkvetch in eastern Oregon. Consequently, disjunct populations previously reported from ash beds in Lassen County, California, are described as the new species Astragalus anxius, distinguished by root, inflorescence, pubescence, and floral characters. The morphology, natural history, and putative relationships of the two species are contrasted.
41424655|Cytological and morphological evidence supports the merger of Cymophora B. L. Robinson with Tridax L. (Asteraceae: Heliantheae). Chromosome counts of n = 9 are reported for Tridax accedens Blake and the closely related T. dubia Rose. Tridax hintonii (Turner & Powell) Keil, Luckow & Pinkava, comb, nov., is proposed, based on Cymophora hintonii Turner & Powell.
41424289|Comarostaphylis polifolia subsp. coahuilensis is described from the mountains of the central Chihuahuan Desert in Coahuila, Mexico. A discussion of fruit structure supports the generic separation of Comarostaphylis from Arctostaphylos and Arbutus.
41424715|For more than 100 years the conspicuous, large prickly-pear of the Southwest was known as Engelmann Prickly-pear, Opuntia engelmannii Salm-Dyck. In 1965 Benson and Walkington placed the name in synonymy under O. ficus-indica (L.) Miller and proposed O. phaeacantha Engelm. var. discata (Griffiths) L. Benson and Walkington for the Engelmann Prickly-pear. Newly discovered morphological characters, especially a unique glochid arrangement within aroles, and restudy of the publication dates shows the correct name for the Engelmann Prickly-pear to be Opuntia engelmannii Salm-Dyck ex Engelm. Certain other taxa were found to share the glochid arrangement, in addition to other characters, warranting revised synonymy and the following new combinations: O. engelmannii var. lindheimeri; O. engelmannii var.linguiformis; O. engelmannii var.flavispina; and O. engelmannii var. flexospina. Por ms de cien aos el nopal grande y conspicuo del suroeste de los Estados Unidos ha sido conocido como "Engelmann Prickly-pear," Opuntia engelmannii Salm-Dyck. En el ao 1965 Benson y Walkington reconocieron este nombre como sinnimo de O. ficus-indica (L.) Miller y propusieron para el "Engelmann Pricklypear" el nombre O. phaeacantha Engelm. var. discata (Griffiths) L. Benson y Walkington.Caracteres morfolgicos recientemente descubiertos, especialmente una distribucin nica de glquidas adentro de las areolas, y un nuevo estudio de las fechas de publicacin, muestra que el nombre correcto para el "Engelmann Prickly-pear" es O. engelmannii Salm-Dyck ex Engelm. Algunos otros taxa tienen en comn con O. engelmannii la distribucin de glquidas y otros caracteres obligando a una revisin de sinonimia y a las combinaciones nuevas siguientes: O. engelmannii var. lindhei meri; O. engelmannii var. linguiformis; O. engelmannii var. flavispina; and O. engelmannii var. flexospina.
41425567|Silene serpentinicola T. W. Nelson and J. P. Nelson is here described as new, discovered on and endemic to the serpentines of the Smith River basin, within Six Rivers National Forest, Del Norte County, California. The bright carmine-red flowered S. serpentinicola has been confused and with the red-scarlet flowered S. californica Durand and the pink of Silene hookeri Nutt subsp. pulverulenta (Peck) Hitchc. & Mag. However, each is distinctive.
41424703|Acamptopappus comprises A. sphaerocephalus var. sphaerocephalus and var. hirtellus, and A. shockleyi, taxa of the southwestern deserts of the United States. Characteristics shared by these taxa include extremely long-villous achenes, a pappus of long, somewhat erose scales with lanceolate to spatulate apices, deeply alveolate receptacles, short, funnelform disk corollas with deep sinuses and reflexed lobes, very broad phyllaries with very broad, scarious margins, and nearly globose capitula. Chromosome numbers of all taxa are n = 9. The probable closest relatives of this outlying genus are to be found among larger genera of Astereae having x = 9, particularly the ChrysothamnusEricameriaMacronema alliance.
41424824|Gentiana plurisetosa, a new species from southern Oregon and northern California, is distinguished from other species by its multiciliate plicae associated with erect, glabrous stems.
41425177|A recently discovered annual crucifer is the sole representative of a new genus, Sibaropsis. The taxon is currently known from three mountains in the Peninsular Ranges of Southern California with a disjunction of ca. 120 km between the northern and southern populations. Potential affinities with Streptanthus sensu lato are considered, but the true relationships of the new genus remain cryptic. Sibaropsis is readily distinguished from other genera by a suite of characters which includes narrowly linear cotyledons and leaves, slightly zygomorphic corollas with petal claws forming a pseudotube and laminae apically notched, three-ranked staminal configuration with the adaxial filaments partially to wholly united into a nonpetaloid staminode, oblongovate anthers, tardily dehiscent siliques with a beak-like style, and a disarticulating infructescence rachis. The currently known populations are restricted to sunny, lowcompetition, vernally saturated clay soil microhabitats, generally in association with islands of Stipa pulchra grassland surrounded by chaparral.
41425043|Pinus maximartinezii is a rare pinyon pine with a natural range restricted to one site in the state of Zacatecas, Mexico. Based on recent field reconnaissance, the entire distribution has been determined to be approximately 400 hectares. The species' altitudinal distribution is 1600 to 2550 meters above sea level. The population size is estimated to be approximately 2000 to 2500 mature individuals. Observations on the species' reproductive cycle and site and soil characteristics are included in this report. Pinus maximartinezii es un pino pionero muy escaso, con una distribucin natural restringido a un solo sitio en el estado de Zacatecas, Mxico. En base a un reconocimiento reciente del sitio, se ha determinado que el rea total de la poblacin es aproximadamente 400 hectreas. La especie crece entre 1600 y 2550 metros sobre el nivel del mar. Se estima que el numero total de individuos de edad reproductiva es entre 2000 y 2500. Este reporte incluye observaciones del ciclo reproductivo y de las caractersticas del sitio y de los suelos.
41425224|I conducted a demographic study of the endangered perennial herb, Silene spaldingii, following > 170 mapped individuals from 1987 through 1996 on a preserve in northwest Montana. Silene spaldingii occurs in mesic sites, but highest densities are negatively correlated with the density of the largest bunchgrass, suggesting that disturbance may play a positive role in the species' life history. Equilibrium population growth was stable over the period of the study, although significant recruitment occurred in only two of the seven years for which it could be accurately measured. Silene spaldingii is a long-lived perennial, with 72% of the plants observed in 1989 still present in 1994. Plants spent nearly 50% of their summers in a dormant condition, and this appears to be an important life history strategy in this semi-arid environment. Flowering, recruitment, and growth were positively correlated in time, and all were negatively correlated with summer dormancy. These demographic parameters were correlated only with mean winter temperature; however, they exhibited twoyear cycles, suggesting that plants may be strongly influenced by their previous-year performance. Prescribed fire may be a useful tool for managing S. spaldingii at this site.
41426366|The history of the combination Plagiobothrys figuratus (Piper) I. M. Johnst. ex M. Peck is explained, and P. figuratus var. corallicarpus (Piper) K. L. Chambers is proposed to replace an earlier combination at the subspecifc rank. In the Plagiobothrys scouleri (Hook. & Arn.) I. M. Johnst. complex, the following are recognized as separate species for treatment in the Oregon Flora Checklist: P. scouleri, P. reticulatus (Piper) I. M. Johnst., P. bracteatus (Howell) I. M. Johnst., and P. hispidulus (Greene) I. M. Johnst.. Plagiobothrys cusickii (Greene) I. M. Johnst. is made a synonym of the latter taxon. Lectotypes are provided for Allocarya bracteata Howell, A. cusickii var. vallicola Jeps., A. charaxata var. debilis Brand, A. commixta Brand, and A. piperi Brand.
41424881|Clarkia franciscana, originally known from a single population in San Francisco, is a California State-listed rare and endangered species that has figured importantly in our understanding of plant speciation. A second population was recently discovered in the Oakland Hills. To determine whether the Oakland Hills population was genetically distinct from the San Francisco one, we carried out an electrophoretic analysis of isozymes. The two populations are fixed for different aleles at five of the 31 genes examined. This result strongly suggests that the Oakland Hills population did not originate by seed transfer from San Francisco, and that it must be regarded as indigenous to its present locality. We discuss certain implications of this finding for plant conservation policy.
41425565|VTM (Vegetation Type Map) plots comprise a huge data set on vegetation composition for many parts of California collected mostly between 1929 and 1935. Historical changes in vegetation have been inferred by sampling these areas many decades later and evaluating the changes in plant dominance. VTM plots can not be precisely relocated, and it has been assumed that errors resulting from this problem are inconsequential or can be eliminated by comparison with a composite of multiple contemporary plots. This study examines that assumption for southern California shrubland landscapes by comparing the differences in species composition between closely positioned VTM-sized plots. Comparing shrub species density in 400-m plots separated by 30 m (center to center), I found that all species exhibited considerable differences in density even over this short distance. This patchiness in shrub distribution could lead to major errors in historical reconstructions from VTM plot data. Two methods are proposed for dealing with this problem. One is to collect multiple samples from the vicinity of the VTM plot and use the observed spatial variation to set bounds on the temporal changes required to represent significant historical change. The other is to look at broad landscape changes reflected in the averages observed in a large sampling of sites.
41424701|A total of 22 plant taxa were identified from three packrat (Neotoma sp.) midden assemblages radiocarbon dated at 12,87013,330 yr B.P. at 1215 m elevation in Robber's Roost in the Scodie Mountains of Kern Co., California. The Late Wisconsin vegetation was a pinyon-juniper woodland dominated by Pinus monophylla, Juniperus californica, and Ceanothus greggii.Excellent modern analogs are in Cushenberry Canyon and similar areas on the desert slopes of the San Bernardino and San Gabriel mountains. These woodlands are probably relicts of a pinyon-juniper-Joshua tree woodland that was widespread across the southern Mojave Desert in the Late Wisconsin.
41424844|Diploid (n= 6) poppies from the El Paso and Rand mountains of the northwestern Mojave Desert, previously referred to Eschscholzia parishii, are morphologically distinct from that species, with shorter, broader terminal lobes of the leaves, more oblong seeds without micropapiUae, and slightly smaller corollas. In all characters but flower size the plants agree with the hexaploid E. minutiflora and tetraploid E. covillei. We believe that these plants, not E. parishii, represent the diploids in the series. Since the three taxa cannot be consistently distinguished by morphology, and there is no compelling reason to recognize autopolyploid levels as separate species, we describe the new diploid as Eschscholzia minutiflora subsp. twisselmannii and provide for the tetraploid the new status E. minutiflora subsp. covillei. Amapolas diploides (n= 6) de las montaas El Paso y Rand del noroeste del desierto de Mojave, previamente consideradas como Eschscholzia parishii, son distintas morfolgicamente de esa especie. Estas plantas poseen hojas con segmentos terminales ms cortos y anchos, semillas ms oblongas y sin micropapilas, y corolas un poco ms pequeas. En todas las caractersticas, excepto en el tamao de las flores, las plantas se parecen ms a la hexaploide E. minutiflora y a la tetraploide E. covillei. Creemos que estas plantas, y no E. parishii, representan las diploides en la serie. Debido a que los tres taxones no pueden reconocerse por morfologa consistentemente, y no hay una razn obligada a reconocer niveles autopoliploides como especies separadas, nosotros describimos el nuevo diploide como Eschscholzia minutiflora subsp. twisselmannii y para el tetraploide proveemos el nuevo estado E. minutiflora subsp. covillei.
41426212|A species list of vascular plants was compiled for an 80 km area, at elevations of 1770-2745 m, on the west slope of the central Sierra Nevada Mountains. The basin area is topographically and geologically diverse, and it supports a rich flora of more than 500 taxa. The area is relatively undisturbed and includes protected portions suitable for long-term research.
41425000|Seedling emergence of Cercidium microphyllum, Fouquieria splendens and Encelia farinosa was monitored on Tumamoc Hill, Tucson, Arizona, during eight years. Cercidium and Fouquieria emerged in response to warm-season rains. Encelia emerged in the cool season. Minimum rainfall triggers for emergence were: Cercidium, 17 mm; Encelia, 19 mm; Fouquieria, 25 mm. Given a large enough rain trigger during the correct season, emergence of 'Encelia and Cercidium depends further upon appropriate minimum temperatures. Encelia failed to emerge in winters when the absolute minimum temperature during the 9 days after the trigger fell below freezing. On all but one occasion, Cercidium emergence failed when average minimum temperatures within 3 days of the trigger fell below 20C. Multiple emergence events (more than one emergence in a single season) were observed in Cercidium and Encelia. After three emergence pulses, 43 percent of the initial Encelia seed bank remained in the soil. After two emergence pulses, 28 percent of the Cercidium seed bank was left. Both species evidently have persistent seed banks. Fouquieria seeds do not persist in the soil.
41426282|This paper outlines the traditional procedures for monographic and floristic studies, and points out that floristic studies are a link between the producers and the consumers of botanical information.
41425279|The effects of simulated oil field disturbance and topsoil (i.e. E. hooveri seed bank) salvage on E. hooveri reestablishment were evaluated to develop effective strategies for conserving Eriastrum hooveri (Jeps.) Mason, a federally threatened plant. The study was conducted at two experimental sites at the former Naval Petroleum Reserve No. 1 (NPR-1 ), Kern County, CA. This species was initially present at Site 1 and nearly absent at Site 2. Six replications of five treatments were established simulating salvage and non-salvage of E. hooveri seed-laden soil before and after seed maturation and dispersion. Eriastrum hooveri densities were estimated in 1993 (pre-disturbance) and 1995 (post-disturbance). In this study we found that 1) surface disturbance negatively affected E. hooveri density for at least two growing seasons, 2) E. hooveri recolonized disturbed plots in two growing seasons from seed naturally dispersed from adjacent habitat, 3) topsoil salvage and respreading did not significantly affect the recolonization of E. hooveri on disturbed plots, 4) the timing of topsoil salvage had no effect, 5) E. hooveri was established at very low densities on several plots with no previous E. hooveri using topsoil from occupied habitat as a seed source, and 6) E. hooveri cover was inversely related to total vegetation cover but not to exotic grass cover.
41425235|Pollen evidence from two sites in the Santa Barbara region show evidence of vegetation changes following European settlement in California. In the Santa Barbara coastal region, oak woodland populations (dominated by Quercus agrifolio) remained stable during the pre-European period; however, in the last century woodland densities have increased. At higher elevations along the oak woodland/pine forest ecotone, pines are becoming dominant. Reduction in fire frequency has probably been the main factor contributing to density increases. The pollen record does not show any evidence of an expansion of chaparral over the last 200 years; however, there is weak evidence for an increase in coastal-sage scrub since the early 1800' s. The transformation of the California grassland appears to have begun particularly early with the invasion of Erodium cicutariwn in the region even before the first Spanish settlement in California.
41425858|Sedum valens (Crassulaceae) is described from the Salmon River Canyon of central Idaho. Though it shares numerous morphological traits with Sedum borschii and S. leibergii, the species differs strikingly in having myriad leaves packed into rosettes as wide as 1 dm. The leaves are ciliate, a characteristic otherwise unknown in temperate North American Sedum, except in Sedum radiatum, a highly dissimilar species. Further distinguishing characteristics are found in leaf shape, phenology, fruit characteristics and in habitat.
41426117|The bruchid (seed) beetle Megacerus impiger is usually found in populations of perennial, native morning glory (Calystegia) in California. Each beetle matures inside a single Calystegia seed, destroying the seed. Seed set of the four ovules per flower prior to predation by the beetles varies among the populations sampled from 1.6 to 3.8. Mean seed weight varies also, from 32.8 mg/seed in C. atriplicifolia to 11.2 mg/seed in C. stebbinsii but beetles can develop to adults in all. Beetles lay eggs on young seeds in May or June in most Calystegia populations in cismontane California. Adults emerge from mature seeds by July or August and oviposit on other mature seeds retained in open capsules. The second crop of adults produces a third ovipositing or overwintering group of beetles; there is thus a potential for extensive seed destruction in the plants. Minimum seed destruction (in C. fulcrata) varied from 0.005 percent to 36.3 percent, not considering predation on fallen seeds. Genus-specific seed predation by M. impiger among at least 13 taxa of Calystegia in California suggests close similarities in reproductive features of a group in which taxa have been difficult to distinguish by reproductive features alone.
41425434|The adult sex ratio of Arceuthobium gillii was determined from five populations in southern Arizona and one population in Chihuahua, Mexico. A total of 6154 mistletoe plants were sexed on a total of 38 host trees; 3096 of these were male plants (50.3%) and 3058 were female (49.7%). A chi-square analysis indicated that these numbers were not significantly different from an essentially 1:1 sex ratio. Furthermore, although there was variation between trees (more male or female plants) the sex ratio on individual trees, and for each population, was also essentially 1:1.
41424774|Monardella beneolens, a new species from the crest of the southern Sierra Nevada in Inyo, Kern, and Tulare counties, California, is described and illustrated. The new species is ecologically and morphologically closest to M. cinerea of subalpine and alpine habitats in the San Gabriel Mountains, Los Angeles and San Bernardino counties, southern California. The subsessile, ovate, undulate-crisped leaves; abundant short-stalked glandular hairs on the leaves, bracts, and calyces; and longer spreading eglandular hairs throughout collectively distinguish M. beneolens from all other species of Monardella.
41425668|A multivariate analysis was performed for populations of Echinocereus (section Triglochidiatus) to facilitate the taxonomic circumscription of E. arizonicus subsp. arizonicus. Twenty-one morphological characters for 16 populations evidenced the validity of at least two subspecific taxa within E. arizonicus: E. arizonicus subsp. arizonicus and E. arizonicus subsp. nigrihorridispinus. Principle components analysis indicated that stem characters were most diagnostic in defining two distinct groups of populations, each including the type locality of one of the two subspecies. Unweighted pair group method with arithmetic mean (UPGMA) clustered populations of the two subspecies apart from one another and from those of the outgroup, E. triglochidiatus subsp. mojavensis. For most measured characters, means differed significantly between the two subspecies. Discriminant analysis correctly classified 97.0% for individuals of E. arizonicus subsp. arizonicus and 94.7% for individuals of E. arizonicus subsp. nigrihorridispinus, compared to an overall 97.8% correct classification of individuals for all perfect-flowered taxa of section Triglochidiatus investigated.
41426220|Ipomopsis longiflora (Torr.) V. Grant subsp. australis Fletcher & W. L. Wagner is described from southwestern New Mexico and Arizona south and west of the Mogolln Rim. Short capsules, which do not or only slightly exceed the calyx, clearly separate subsp. australis from the typical subspecies, with its strongly exserted capsules.
41426197|A new species, Dudleya caldcola, is described from the southern Sierra Nevada in Kern and Tulare Counties, California. The xeric limestone habitat, associated species, and ecological adaptations of the plant are discussed.
41426307|An analysis of the reproductive biology of the Santa Ana Woolly Star, Eriastrum densifolium ssp. sanctorum (Milliken) H. Mason shows that the primary pollinators of this rare and endangered plant include the Giant Flower-loving Fly, hummingbirds, bumble bees, halictid bees, and digger bees. In comparison to previous studies (Munoz 1991; Erickson 1993; Stone 1995), fewer individuals of each pollinating species were present in this study suggesting that overall fruit set may be declining. However, seed set per fruit appears to be similar to values found in earlier studies indicating that pollinator efficiency is not a limiting factor. In fact, the three principal pollinators that were tested were all reasonably efficient pollen vectors. Only a single simulated pollination event was usually required to effect normal fruit and seed set, indicating that this plant is not dependent on any single pollinator for its reproductive success. The flowers produced an average of nearly 2 1 of nectar per flower, which is in the range of insect pollinated plants.
41424287|Percent cover of plants with extrafloral nectaries was investigated in three California habitats with the same physiognomy as habitats previously studied in Nebraska (perennial native grassland, riparian forest, deciduous forest). In contrast to Nebraska where cover of plants with extrafloral nectaries reached 14 percent, no plants with extrafloral nectaries were found in any California transect. Chaparral was also studied; no plants with extrafloral nectaries were found.
41425281|As part of a revegetation program for Quercus agrifolia Nee, we examined the reported effect of nurse plant facilitation on seedling establishment and growth. To investigate this location effect, acorns were planted directly in the ground in 100 positions under shrubs, and in 100 positions in the open. In addition, we tested for the effect of protection by covering half the planting positions with cages. In the first year, acorns planted in the open had higher germination but lower survival than acorns planted under shrubs, resulting in no significant location effect on the success of seedling establishment. The protection effect was significant, with the success of caged seedlings almost double that of uncaged seedlings. After two years, no location effect on seedling survival or growth was found. Cages continued to have a significant positive effect on seedling survival, but they tended to retard their growth. Over five years of monitoring, no significant effect of nurse plant facilitation on seedling survival or growth was found, although the number of seedlings that survived under shrubs was greater than that in the open. We also explored potential relationships of associated vegetation type and crowding on acorn seedling development. Seedling establishment, survival, and growth were associated with differences in vegetation type, and were higher in planting sites with more mesic vegetation. Crowding due to multiple seedlings growing in one planting position versus single seedlings did not negatively affect the growth of seedlings. Of 100 nurserygrown seedlings transplanted in the field in the first year, 99 were surviving at the end of the five-year monitoring period, and on average, they were much larger than the direct acorn plantings. As with the acorn seedlings, no significant nurse plant location effect was found for seedlings transplanted in the open or under shrubs.
41425344|Old-growth Sequoia sempervirens (D. Don) Endl. (redwood) forests occurring in northwestern California and southwestern Oregon were classified and described using data from 206 systematically placed plots. Data were collected from Jedediah Smith Redwoods State Park, Del Norte Coast Redwoods State Park, northern Redwood National Park, and the southwestern portion of the Siskiyou National Forest.Plot data were analyzed using TWINSPAN and polar ordination. Six associations within the redwood series were classified: Sequoia sempervirensl Polystichum munitum (Kaulf) C. Presl (SESE/POMU), Sequoia sempervirens-Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirbel) Franco/Rhododendron macrophyllum D. Don (SESEPSME/RHMA), Sequoia sempervirens-Tsuga heterophylla (Raf.) Saig./Vaccinium ovatum Pursh (SESETSHE/VAOV), Sequoia sempervirens-Tsuga heterophylla/Polystichum munitum (SESE-TSHE/POMU), Sequoia sempervirens-Tsuga heterophylla/Rubus spectabilis Pursh (SESE-TSHE/RUSP), and Sequoia sempervirens-Alnus rubra Bong./Rubus spectabilis (SESE-ALRU/RUSP). Discriminant analysis was used to assess the relationships between abiotic site variables and classified floristic associations. Elevation and coastal proximity explained 81.1 percent of the variation among associations. Aspect and topographic position explained 14.2 percent of the remaining variation. Moisture was the primary environmental variable controlling the distribution of classified forest associations.
41424368|Stands of subalpine-alpine vegetation from the southern Sierra Nevada were sampled (n = 97) and compared using Braun-Blanquet methodology. The study was undertaken (1) to characterize, using floristic criteria, the prinicpal vegetation types occurring within the study area; (2) to consider the influence of environmental factors on vegetational patterns; and (3) to provide a basis for making floristic and vegetational comparisons within the study area and elsewhere. The vegetational relevs (stand surveys) were organized into tables and assigned rank in a hierarchical system solely on the basis of floristic affinities. Five alliances and twelve associations were recognized and described phytosociologically and ecologically. Four major environmental features were considered to order the vegetation in the landscape: moisture regime, snow cover, elevation, and substrate stability. Festucion brachyphyllae occurs in truly alpine sites within the study area. Primulion suffrutescentis is characteristic of both mid-and high-elevation sites, especially on north slopes where the snow lies late and the growing season is short. Pino-Caricion exsertae occurs on the gravelly slopes and terraces in the mid-elevation Pinus albicaulis subalpine forest. Monardello-Holodiscion microphylli is characteristic of the usually dry, stabilized talus of mid-elevations. Dodecathion redolentis represents the mid-elevation meadow of streamsides and topographic lows that remain moist to wet throughout the season. A total of 277 vascular plant taxa belonging to 38 families were found within the study area.
41425488|Regeneration of hardwood species on three streams in the northern Sierra Nevada was correlated with several environmental factors. The occurrence of seedlings of Salix lutea (yellow willow), Salix laevigata (red willow), and Alnus tenuifolia (mountain alder) were negatively correlated with canopy cover and litter depth, and positively correlated with solar radiation. All three species occurred more frequently on sandy soils where the stream channel was wide and the slope was relatively shallow. The occurrence of Populus fremontii (black cottonwood) seedlings was negatively correlated with canopy cover, and sandy soils, and positively correlated with distance from the watercourse and solar radiation. Acer macrophyllum (big leaf maple) and Cornus sericea (American dogwood) seedlings occurred under relatively dense canopy cover, in low light environments, but were limited to sandy soils and wide stream channels. Results indicate that the hardwood species that exist in riparian corridors within the Sierra Nevada mixed conifer forest type are variably reliant on conditions common to flood prone areas such as sandy mineral soils and a high light environment for regeneration.
41426170|The influence of elevational range, area, and collecting time on the absolute gamma diversity of 20 local floras in Arizona is determined by multiple regression. Elevational range and collecting time together account for 77% of the variance in species number among the floras. Residuals from the prediction equation are used to derive a measure of the relative gamma diversity of each flora. The remaining variance is associated with vegetation community-types, presence of permanent water, and occurrence of major canyon environments. Vegetation community types that are rich in species are Madrean evergreen woodland and desert grassland. Sonoran desert scrub and interior chaparral are relatively poor in species.
41425387|The perennial plant species, Datura wrightii Regel (Solanaceae) is dimorphic for leaf trichome type. Some plants produce almost exclusively short, non-glandular trichomes, while other plants within the same population produce almost exclusively longer, glandular trichomes. In a previous survey of 19 southern California populations, the frequency of plants producing glandular trichomes ranged from 0-82%, and plants with glandular trichomes were absent from desert populations. Here we expand our studies to a total of 56 D. wrightii populations from central and southern California. We also examined the relationship between the frequency of glandular trichomes and two factors that broadly determine the availability of water at each site. The first was mean annual rainfall, while the second was mean annual evapotranspiration rate. The frequency of plants with glandular trichomes increased with increasing mean rainfall and decreased with increasing mean annual evapotranspiration rate. Combined, these two environmental variables accounted for about one-third of the variation in the proportion of plants with glandular trichomes. Results suggest that the production of a water-based exdate by plants with glandular trichomes may impose an additional demand for water on those plants compared to plants with nonglandular trichomes. Because of this additional water demand, the frequency of plants with glandular trichomes may decline relative to that of plants with non-glandular trichomes as available water becomes more limiting.
41424297|Postfire recovery of three desert shrubs, Larrea tridentata, Hymenoclea salsola, and Opuntia echinocarpa was examined five years after a fire in the Snow Creek area of southern California. Larrea tridentata resprouted and had nearly regained its estimated former cover. O. echinocarpa excepted, the community has shown substantial recovery. The upper distribution of these desert shrubs may be controlled in part by their susceptibility to periodic fire.
41702546|Vaccinium parvifolium Sm. (Ericaceae) is an important understory shrub in conifer forests in western North America. Populations putatively classified as V. parvifolium in northern California display alternate berry morphology, consistent with a possible phenotypic diversification or cryptic speciation. Identification of cryptic species or subspecies would influence management guidelines given the limited range of some morphological variants. In order to inform management guidelines, two Vaccinium species were characterized via molecular genetic analyses. Plants of typical V. parvifolium morphology from the coastal areas of northwest California, western Oregon and Washington, atypical plants from Shasta County and the central Sierra Nevada, and one population of V. deliciosum Piper, a congener, were assessed at five nuclear microsatellite loci. Analyses of differentiation, admixture, and phylogenetic relationships indicated that populations displaying atypical morphology were more similar to V. deliciosum than to the typical V. parvifolium. Although additional data are required to determine whether these differences warrant taxonomic treatment within Vaccinium, management plans should consider three distinct gene pools amo" hg these populations.
41413358|At several sites in the Mojave Desert, shrubs occur that are intermediate in morphology between Haplopappus cooperi and H. linearifolius. Where these species occur together and both are common, intermediates generally comprise about one per 300 of the combined populations. Morphological features readily recognized in the field are plant stature, number and size of flower heads per flowering stem, peduncle lengths, and leaf size and shape. In all respects, the distributions of characters in the intermediates lie between those of H, cooperi and H. linearifolius. As each species varies morphologically among sites, the morphology of the intermediates also varies and retains its intermediacy. We conclude that the intermediates are sterile hybrids of H. cooperi and H. linearifolius and that these two species belong in the same section of the genus as suggested recently.
41425662|Triteleia laxa (Themidaceae), a liliaceous geophyte common in California at lower elevations with mediterranean climate, was studied during 19982004 at four sites in the northern Sacramento Valley. New individual plants were randomly selected each year at one to four of these grassland or open savanna sites to provide a composite study of the biology and life history of the plant. A mature plant produced two leaves after fall rains begin, a new corm on top of the shrinking old corm in spring, and a scape with an umbel of large bluish flowers in late March or April. By seed production in May, above-ground parts were dead, and the new corm and seeds persisted through summer. Mean leaf lengths varied from 22 to 28 cm; no correlation was found with amount of precipitation. Mean scape lengths also varied, from 23 to 32 cm; overall, there was a negative correlation with spring precipitation. Corms of flowering plants had a mean volume of 1.30 cm , and occurred at a mean depth of 7.27 cm; corm volume was correlated with scape height and with number of flowers. Dry mass increased linearly in the new corm during the spring growth period. Number of flowers per plant varied among sites and the mean varied highly significantly among 5 yr (range 812.6). Plants appeared to be largely self-incompatible, but produced a small number of selfed seeds when pollinated by hand. The pollemovule ratio was about 3100:1. Mean fruit set (range 5074%) and mean seed set (range 4058%) were low, and varied significantly among sites and years. Seed mass averaged about 1.7 mg, and seeds showed 100% viability. Germination time was about 4 wk after wetting, with up to 98% of seeds germinating. The seedling was carried downward from the seed by the elongating cotyledon, ultimately producing a single foliage leaf, a lateral contractile root that shortened in April (and in situ doubtless pulls the seedling deeper into the soil), and a corm <4 mm in diameter. Soils occupied in study sites were loams, with 20 to 39% clay particles. This study on T. laxa gives a reasonably complete picture of the biology for a common geophyte, and we hope that this work will provide impetus for additional studies of other widespread or local geophytes.
41425479|Ceanothus bolensis S. Boyd & J. Keeley is a new species in the subgenus Cerastes from northwestern Baja California, Mexico. It is well represented at elevations above 1000 m on Cerro Bola, a basaltic peak approximately 35 km south of the U.S./Mexican border. It is characterized by small, obovate to oblanceolate, cupped, essentially glabrous leaves with sparsely toothed margins, pale blue flowers, and globose fruits lacking horns. Principal components analysis on morphological traits shows it to be distinct from other members of Cerastes which are distributed away from the coast in southern California and Baja California, Mexico. These phenetic comparisons also suggest that Ceanothus otayensis should not be subsumed under C. crassifolius, as treated in the Jepson Manual, but rather should be retained at specific rank as well. Ceanothus bolensis S. Boyd & J. Keeley es una nueva especie del subgnero Cerastes en el noroeste de Baja California, Mxico. Esta bien representada en altitudes por arriba de los 1000 m en el Cerro Bola, un pico basltico, aprximadamente a 35 km de la frontera de USA/Mxico. Esta se caracteriza por hojas pequeas, obovadas a oblanceoladas, convexas, esencialmente glabras y con mrgenes esparcidamente dentados, flores azul plido y frutos globosos sin cornculos. El anlisis de componentes principales con caracteres morfolgicos la presenta como distinta de otros miembros de Cerastes distribuidos lejos de la costa en el sur de California y de Baja California, Mxico. La comparacin fentica tambin sugiere que Ceanothus otayensis no debe ser incluida dentro de C. crassifolius como en el Manual de Jepson, sino ms bien debera ser retenida a nivel especie.
41424822|Field and herbarium studies have revealed the presence of 20-stamen black-fruited hawthorns (Crataegus) from 29 sites in the northern Rocky Mountains. This entity has often been treated as a variety of the 10-stamen species, C. douglasii, and was formerly believed to be essentially restricted to west of the Cascade/Sierra Range. We present evidence that the 20-stamen form is diploid whereas C. douglasii is tetraploid, and that the two differ substantially in morphology, ecology and phenology. These lines of evidence strongly support Kruschke's treatment of the 20-stamen entity as a distinct species, C. suksdorfii.
41424817|The effect of stand age on growth dynamics of two chaparral shrubs, Adenostoma fasciculatum and Ceanothus greggii, was studied in southern California. It was asked whether shoots of young shrubs grow faster than those of old ones, and if on young shrubs more shoots develop per square meter of canopy projection area than on old ones. These measurements were made in ten chaparral stands representing six different ages ranging from 6 to 87 years. Measurements taken biweekly throughout the 1984 growing season indicated no decline in growth rates or biomass of new shoots with increasing stand age. Variability in measurements was as high among even-aged stands as among stands of differing ages. Measured values were very low compared to earlier studies, probably because of very low rainfall in 1983-1984.
41425832|Sclerophyll shrubs such as Arctostaphyllos viscida Parry (Ericaceae; whiteleaf manzanita) are often considered obstacles to afforestation. The establishment of conifer plantations in southwest Oregon presents challenging problems for initial seedling survival and subsequent growth. This region is characterized by hot dry summers, cool moist winters, and rocky, shallow soils at low elevations. The growth of competing hardwoods within conifer plantations creates the traditional problem of undesirable competition for the silviculturist. Accumulation of manzanita biomass also contributes heavily to fire hazard while at the same time providing biomass of potential value as biofuel. This study describes productivity of whiteleaf manzanita stands of varying density growing within the confines of Pinus ponderosa Dougl. ex C. Lawson var. ponderosa (Pinaceae; ponderosa pine) plantations of the same age on poor sites. We explore the ability of this shrub to generate biomass as a potential energy source. Growth prediction equations are for height, basal diameter, biomass per individual, and biomass per hectare by stand density. The accumulated biomass after 14 yr of growth ranges around 43 metric tons/ha, and represents a strong negative influence on the supposed productivity of interplan ted pines of the same age. Energy content of biomass amounts to an accumulation rate of 1.6 X 10 megajoules/ha/yr on such sites, indicating a large biofuel potential by age 14 or more. Harvesting the manzanita will also provide a potential benefit to productivity of the pines.
41425227|In late September 1994, a lightning fire burned a portion of the annual grassland on a Sierra Nevada foothill, basaltic mesa known as McKenzie Table located approximately 28 km northeast of Fresno, California. Permanent 1-m quadrats were established in burned and unburned plots to determine the effect of fire on the plantspecies composition of McKenzie Table. Data were gathered between February and June 1995. Vulpia microstachys sensu lato, a native annual grass, had the highest relative density for both the unburned and the burned plots with 14.14% and 11.81%, respectively. Using percent cover as a measure of dominance, a one-way ANOVA revealed significant differences in dominance between the burned and unburned plots; Blennosperma nanum var. nanum (P < 0.05), Brodiaea terrestris ssp. kernensis (P < 0.01), Crassula connata (P < 0.01), Lasthenia califomica (P < 0.01), Montia fontana (P < 0.01), Navarretia tagetina (P < 0.01), Triphysaria eriantha ssp. eriantha (P < 0.01), and Trifolium variegatum (P < 0.01) had significantly greater dominance values for the burned plot. Hypochaeris glabra (P < 0.01) had significantly greater dominance values for the unburned plot. The unburned plot (36 native taxa) had 12 more native taxa than the burned plot (24 native taxa), but none had significantly different dominance values. In a comparison of species composition, the burned plot had higher percentages of native species. For native species, the Shannon-Wiener index of diversity (H') is significantly greater (P < 0.01) for the burned plot (H' = 5.63) compared to the unburned plot (H' = 3.90). One season of results indicate that burning in the summer or fall may reduce non-native species, such as Hypochaeris glabra, and increase native-species diversity on McKenzie Table.
41424860|Pectis pimana is a new species of west-central Chihuahua, Mexico. It is most closely related to P. filipes of sect. Pectothrix from which it differs most conspicuously by its 8-rayed instead of 5-rayed heads and more numerous pappus awns. Pectis pimana se describe como nueva especie del parte oeste-central de Chihuahua, Mxico. Est emparentada lo ms cercana con P. filipes de la Seccin Pectothrix, de cual se distingue por sus cabezuellas con 8 rayas en vez de 5, y por sus aristas del vilano ms numerosas.
41425252|Atriplex longitrichoma, a newly reported annual species from southwestern Nevada, and east-central California is described and illustrated. It is most abundant in Pahrump Valley, NV, in abandoned agricultural fields, in roadside borrow pits; and, in favorable years, occurs in contiguous, undisturbed sites. It is a tetraploid species, apparently most closely related to Atriplex hillmanii (Jones) Standley.
41424538|A broad-based examination o Asarina s. str. has been undertaken to elucidate its systematic and phytogeographic relationship to New World species in tribe Antirrhineae.Asarina procumbens is differentiated from Old World and New World species by a combination of distinctive characters: procumbent stems, opposite leaves, orbiculate to reniform laminas, solitary flowers in leaf axils, large personate corollas, and globose capsules. Although the pollen morphology and seed coat anatomy of Asarina s. str. are shared with some taxa in the New World, A. procumbens is crossincompatible with purported congeneric species and differs from native American species by three unique features: opposite leaves with orbiculate to cordiform laminas, a chromosome base number of nine, and a bullate-corrugate seed coat ornamentation. It is hypothesized that A. procumbens is more closely related to Old World species, that Asarina sensu Penneil delimits an unnatural and heterogeneous assemblage of species, and that Asarina, unlike Antirrhinum, does not represent a genus with a North American European Mediterranean disjunction.
41425692|Economic and ecological problems brought by the invasion of non-native species can be prevented in part by identifying patterns in the invasion process. We tested hypotheses that address variation in the spatial, taxonomic, and temporal distributions of non-native floras in the large and diverse geographic area defined as California. Analyses reveal that in time, 79% of all non-native species will occur in disturbed habitat; polyploidy is not correlated with geographic spread; the Poaceae and Brassicaceae are the most broadly represented families across elevations; introductions increase from all geographic regions from 1925 to 1969, but more recently from Asia, Australia, Africa, South Africa, and South America; and more than 50% of all alien taxa recorded prior to 1925 have become widespread. Some taxa without native representatives contain some of the worst invaders in the flora, thus we suggest that control efforts should be directed to recent arrivals without native representation.Our conclusions support the need to control the spread of non-natives early in the invasion process but also emphasize the need to control invasions from a floristic perspective, both locally and regionally.
41425225|Erythronium taylori, a new species from the central Sierra Nevada of California, is described and illustrated. This new taxon has evident affinities to other Californian Erythronium with unmottled leaves, especially E. pusaterii. The plain-leaved fawnlilies of the Sierra Nevada have similarities in floral and other structures, suggesting that they form a single clade.
41425906|The aim of this study was to clarify the relationships between Elymus alaskanus and E. violaceus in northwest North America. We performed a morphological and biogeographic analyses of ca. 300 widely distributed herbarium specimens. Following a univariate analysis of morphological characters used in contemporary treatments, we found no clear character, or combination of characters, that differentiates unambiguously among the taxa at the specific level. However, glume and lemma trichome length reliably separated E. alaskanus subsp. hyperarcticus from other taxa. Specimens could not be differentiated at the specific level by habitat preferences or geographic distribution as described in the most current treatments. Further, principal components analysis and cluster analysis were unable to reliably segregate specimens into groups. Discriminant analysis reliably grouped E. violaceus and E. alaskanus subsp. hyperarcticus, but not E. alaskanus specimens. In the development of a relevant treatment for E. alaskanus and E. violaceus, we recommend that (i) E. violaceus be treated as a subspecies of E. alaskanus and called E. alaskanus subsp. latiglumis, and (ii) E. alaskanus subsp. alaskanus and E. alaskanus subsp. hyperarcticus continue to be recognized at the subspecific level.
41424502|Transpiration rates among chaparral species were found to correlate with mode of reproduction. Species of Ceanothus and Arctostaphylos that regenerate following fire only by seedlings were found to transpire on the average 2 times the rate of stumpsprouting species. The correlation of these two life history traits suggested that other characteristics might also diverge among species of different reproductive mode. Data from the literature for water use, photosynthesis, and growth suggest that the divergence within Ceanothus and Arctostaphylos represents a fundamental change in species life-history; seedlings of obligate-seeding species may have been selected for rapid growth, exploitative resource use, and physiological tolerance of stresses during seedling establishment.Thus, obligate seeders may have seedlings with a better potential for establishment in comparison with seedlings of stump-sprouting species.
41425033|Vegetation dominated by Quercus wislizenii (interior live oak) in the San Bernardino Mountains may be classified as chaparral or hardwood forest, depending on its structure and composition. Structure, dynamics, and species composition are described differently for Q. wislizenii forest and chaparral, but relationships among these types are not always clear. This leads to uncertainty in classification and management. We sampled Q. wislizenii stands in the San Bernardino Mountains, then used multivariate techniques to group plots and to distinguish among characteristics of Q. wislizenii dominated chaparral and forest. We identified and described one forest type and two distinct shrubland types. We conclude that one of the shrubland types, occurring with sprouting chaparral species on steep mountain sides, is best recognized as interior live oak chaparral. The other type, occurring on more moderate slopes, is better considered an early-developmental interior live oak forest. About half of the sample plots remained unclassified, indicating floristic and structural continua rather than discrete categories. Structural and floristic characteristics of the three types are used to clarify relationships between Q. wislizenii chaparral and forest, and to describe development of forest from shrublands that resemble chaparral. We recommend consideration of these relationships in management decisions.
41424937|The nickel concentration of whole plants of Arenaria rubella collected on dunite, Skagit County, Washington, U.S.A., is reported as 1360 g g (dry weight), compared with only 2.7 g g for specimens collected on shale, Jefferson County. This is the first hyperaccumulator of nickel reported from northwestern North America. High concentrations of chromium, cobalt and iron at 213, 33.5 and 28,900 g g respectively, in plants from dunite contrast with low values (3, 0.49 and 600 g g) in samples from shale.
41425254|Gilia yorkii, a new species discovered in the southern Sierra Nevada, is restricted to limestone outcrops. From its morphology G. yorkii is identified as a member of Gilia sect. Saltugilia, and within the section it appears most like G. scopulorum M. E. Jones, a desert species. The two species differ in several characters, including different corolla proportions and some contrasting trichome details.
41424316|A key is provided for the five species of Salix in the Chihuahuan Desert Region with two-stamened flowers and leaves with stomates almost confined to the lower surfaces. One species, s. lasiolepis Bentham, was previously known and named; three new species are described from the state of Coahuila: S. pattersonii, S. riskindii, and S. wendtii. The fifth species, also from Coahuila, is discussed but remains nameless because it is known only from two sterile collections.
41424884|Absence of blue oak (Quercus douglasii Hook. & Am.) saplings and seedlings has been noted throughout much of the species range. Our ability to assess whether the present poor regeneration is a natural pattern or a response to human induced environmental change is limited by lack of data on the history of blue oak recruitment. In this study, stand age analysis is used to reconstruct former patterns of blue oak regeneration and recruitment in three blue oak woodlands on the Tejon Ranch, Kern County, California. Analysis of 279 cross-sections showed that 56% of all stems sampled were recruited in 1856. Prior to 1856, recruitment was relatively continuous. Only 3% of all stems stems aged date to the period from 1864 to the present. Analysis of fire scars found an increase in fire frequency during the 1850's and 60's, followed by a distinct decrease in fires for a 70 year period. Differing patterns of regeneration were found to coincide with changes in local land use. During Indian occupation of the area, the woodland appears to have been less dense, with a slow but steady process of replacement, adequate to maintain the woodland. Changes in fire frequency and browsing patterns, associated with European settlement in the mid-19th century, resulted in unusually high rates of regeneration and recruitment. Since the 1860's, commercial livestock grazing, reduction of fire frequency, and an increase in density have resulted in virtually complete suppression of regeneration.
41424699|The Sawatch Range, located in central Colorado, is part of the Southern Rocky Mountains. Extending over 130 km in a north-south direction and 65 km in an eastwest direction, the range is the highest and one of the most extensive in the state. No previous floristic work has been done on its tundra. Sixteen study areas distributed throughout the entire range were analyzed over four field seasons. A vascular flora of 289 taxa in 118 genera and 35 families is reported. Two taxa are recent new records for the state. Eight taxa are Colorado endemics. Sixteen taxa are limited to calcareous substrates within the range. The phytogeographic distribution of the flora is primarily alpine (38.1%) and western North American (31.5%). According to Sorensen's Index of Similarity, the floristic inventory of the Sawatch Range shows an overall consistency among the tundra vascular floras of the Mosquito and West Elk Ranges, Indian Peaks area of the Front Range, and the San Juan Mountains.
41424526|Linanthus nuttallii subsp. howellii Nelson & Patterson is described from the serpentine soil of the southern Klamath Mountains of California. It is near L. nuttallii subsp. nuttallii and subsp. pubescens morphologically, differing by its smaller leaf lobes as well as dense pubescence.
41426310|Harmonia guggolziorum is a new tarweed from ultramafic (serpentine) soils of southern Mendocino County, California. Unlike other species of Harmonia, H. guggolziorum combines the following morphological characteristics: primary stems usually longer than branches of the subumbelliform capitulescences, leaves unevenly distributed but not densely congested, heads erect in bud and fruit, phyllaries irregularly hirsute, disc florets bisexual, ray cypselae weakly arcuate, ray pappi present, and disc pappi of linear, fimbriate scales 0.60.8 mm long. Based on molecular phylogenetic data, I suggest that H. guggolziorum is the only known representative of a lineage that predates diversification of the other serpentine endemic species of Harmonia (i.e., H. doris-nilesiae, H. hallii, and H. stebbinsii). The apparent phylogenetic relationships and geographic location of H. guggolziorum lead me to hypothesize that Harmonia originated in the southern North Coast Ranges and has undergone more extensive diversification on ultramafics than previously suspected for the genus or any other lineage in Madiinae.
41425584|Ecological data are lacking for many species covered in multi-species habitat conservation plans and other regional conservation plans. Erodiwn macrophyllum (Geraniaceae) is a rare native annual forb found throughout California, southern Oregon, and northern Baja California (Mexico) for which very little ecology is known. I report on the habitat characteristics and current and historical distribution of E. macrophyllum by collecting data on populations in Riverside and San Louis Obispo Counties and by conducting an herbaria search and electronic-mail survey. Erodium macrophyllum population sizes range from a few individuals to over 1000 and are restricted to heavy clay soils. Most populations are found on the eastern side of the coast ranges in California. The clay soils on which it is found typically have low cover of native and exotic species but often have other rare species. They are also generally low in nitrogen and phosphorus, but there is considerable variation. Based on herbaria records and the e-mail survey, E. macrophyllum was probably once more common and may have occurred on other soil types.
41424537|In addition to the native Spartina foliosa, four species of Spartina have been established in San Francisco Bay by human introduction. One species, Spartina patens, has been reported previously and appears to have been introduced acciden tally. Three species, S. alterniflora, S. anglica, and S. densiflora, have been introduced in attempts to establish cordgrass within marsh restoration projects. Only S. alterniflora and S. densiflora have spread beyond their original sites of introduction. The latter species has been introduced from Humboldt Bay, where it was previously included in the taxon S. foliosa. Morphological and ecological data support the conclusion that the species occurring in Humboldt Bay should be referred to as Spartina densiflora and was probably introduced to northern California from South America during the mid-nineteenth century.
41426185|A new species, Galium dempsterae, is described from gypseous deposits in northcentral Mexico. It is known from only two collections, both obtained from Cerro Pea in southern Nuevo Leon. The taxon is related to yet another gypsophile, G. juniperinum, from areas about Cerro Potosi, Nuevo Leon; both of these taxa relate to G. lacrimiforme, a suspected gypsophile of the same broad region.
41424787|Puccinellia howellii, a new species from the Trinity Mountains of California, is described. As is typical of the genus, this species occurs in mineralized soils, in this case in a series of mineralized seeps; it is known only from the type locality. The new species is morphologically similar to P. pumila, a species of coastal habitats.
41425001|Qualitative and quantitative data on woody and succulent plant distribution in Baja California, Mexico were collected from 17 January to 21 February, 1991. Qualitative data from 196 samples were then clustered using TWINSPAN, a divisive, polythetic classification program. Fourteen scrub and woodland plant communities are described quantitatively using line-transect data. This is the first quantitative description of scrub plant communities for most of the peninsula. We compared our results with previous classifications and found close agreement in the California Floristic Province of Baja California (northwest). Comparisons were mixed in the Sonoran Desert region, suggesting more complicated mosaic species distributions. In the Sonoran desert, there was a general trend of increasing tree cover correlated with increasing rainfall from north to south. Vegetation maps at 1:250,000 and 1:1,000,000 scales produced in Mexico exist for Baja California. We compared our classification scheme to that used in these maps by first subjectively grouping our samples according to the Mexican scheme. We compared these data with data from the TWINSPAN analysis using indices of similarity. There is little agreement between the two classification schemes. The Mexican scheme, based on dominant life forms, is broader in scope and approximates vegetation types described here only in northern Baja California. Mapping units are poorly defined and there are many inconsistencies among maps. While these maps are a potentially rich source of information, we suggest that they be used only as a general guide to life forms of Baja California. Se colectaron datos cuantitativos y cualitativos sobre la distribucin de plantas leosas y suculentas de la Pennsula de Baja California, Mxico, del 17 de enero al 21 de febrero de 1991. Los datos cualitativos, obtenidos de 196 muestras, fueron clasificados mediante el uso del programa TWINSPAN, programa divisivo y polifiltico. Para gran parte de la pennsula, sta es la primera descripcin cuantitativa que se realiza. En lo que respecta a la Provincia Floristica de California (noroeste de Baja California) los resultados concordaron estrechamente con previas clasificaciones. Sin embargo, en la regin del Desierto Sonorense, se obtuvieron concordancias mezcladas por lo que se sugiere la ocurrencia de un mosaico de distribuciones de especies mas complejo. En el Desierto Sonorense se encontr una tendencia general al incremento en cobetura arbrea correlaciorada con el incremento en precipitacin pluvial que se observa de norte a sur. Se describe brevemente el esquema de clasificacin utilizado en los mapas de vegetacin escala 1: 250,000 y 1: 1,000,000 editados por el gobierno Mexicano. Nuestras muestras fueron clasificadas subjectivamente de acuerdo al esquema Mexicano, y comparadas con los resultados del TWINSPAN utilizando una matriz de similitud. Los resultados de sta indican poca concordancia entre los dos esquemas de clasificacin. El esquema Mexicano, basado en formas de vida dominantes, es de escala ms amplia y coincide con las comunidades vegetales aqu descritas, slo en el noroeste de Baja California. Las unidades cartogrficas de los mapas no estn bien definidas y existen numerosas inconsistencias entre ellos. Sugerimos por tanto que estos mapas sean utilizados solamente como una gua general de las formas de vida vegetales de Baja California.
41425568|Boechera yorkii S. Boyd is described as a new species. It is a narrow endemic from the Last Chance Range in Death Valley National Park, Inyo County, California, apparently restricted to carbonate substrate. Boechera yorkii is distinguished from all other Boechera taxa in the Death Valley region by having reflexed flowers and yellow petals with brick-red tips (rarely all yellow or all brick-red) rather than all white, pinkish, purple, or some combination of these. Conservation concerns are limited as all currently known populations occur in a relatively inaccessible area, entirely within Death Valley National Park boundaries.
41425661|Plant biomass and seed production were quantified for Brassica tournefortii Gouan, Brassicaceae (Sahara mustard) from 3 sites spanning the Mojave and Sonoran deserts, in the Southwestern United States. We found strong linear relationships between plant biomass and seed production, with larger plants producing more seeds per plant (R = 0.93) and greater seed biomass per plant (R = 0.94). Both seed count (R = 0.93) and seed biomass (R = 0.90) were also greater in 0.25 m plots that had higher plant biomass. These results and the law of constant final yield indicate that biomass and seed production of individual Sahara mustard plants can be higher in plots with lower densities. These data suggest that control efforts that do not remove all individuals may reduce densities but inadvertently increase net seed production within treated areas.
41424330|The native grasslands of California have undergone great change since European contact but early accounts of Spanish and Anglo-Americans provide some information about their former condition. They suggest that the dry alluvial fans of the San Joaquin Valley, which account for 60 percent by area of California grasslands, were dominated by annual species and xerophytic shrubs. Perennial bunchgrasses were common only on certain well-watered floodplains.
41424972|Atriplex persistens, a new annual species from California is described and illustrated. The new species appears to be restricted to vernal pond areas that dry during the summer months. Although collected earlier in Merced, Stanislaus, and Tulare counties, California, it is apparently now restricted to two small populations in the Sacramento Wildlife Refuge south of Willows, Glenn County, California. It appears to be most closely related to the perennial species Atriplex fruticulosa.
41426322|Poa diaboli is described as a new and rare species of P. subsect. Madropoa from the coastal mountains of southern California. Its breeding system is like that in species of Poa previously said to be partially gynodioecious. However, in species of Poa with the corresponding breeding system syndrome, plants that are totally pistillate-flowered are rare and possibly only late-flowering individuals. We conclude that the breeding system of these species of Poa is better classified as a new subset of gynomonoecism, here termed sequentially adjusted gynomonoecism. Subtypes of gynomonoecism in the grasses, and in Poa, are outlined.
43289031|Datura arenicola, a new species originally collected and named by H. S. Gentry, is documented from Baja California Sur, Mexico. Following a study of Datura (Solanaceae) in western Mexico, the new species is placed in the new section Discola, with section Dutra emended and the revision of section Ceratocaulis proposed. Datura arenicola is found at elevations of 75-100 m on the eastern Vizcaino Desert, and is characterized by a short basal stem, decumbent habit, pubescent lobulate leaf, prismatic calyx, violet flower, and pendant globose spiny fruit, dehiscent in four parts. The new species is known from a very limited geographical area, 12 km across the range. A description of the Datura on the southern Baja California peninsula and a key to the comparable species are provided. Datura arenicola, una nueva especie recogida y nombrada originalmente por H. S. Gentry, es documentada de Baja California Sur, Mxico. Despus de un estudio de la Datura (Solanaceae) en Mxico occidental, la nueva especie se sita en la nueva seccin Discola, con la seccin Dutra enmendada y la revisin propuesta de la seccin Ceratocaulis. Datura arenicola se encuentra en las elevaciones de 75-100 metros en el este del desierto de Vizcano, y se caracteriza por un tallo bsico corto, un hbito recostado, una hoja lobulada pubescente, un cliz prismtico, una flor violeta, y una fruta espinosa globosa pendiente, dehiscente en cuatro porciones. La nueva especie se conoce en un rea geogrfica muy limitada de 12 kilmetros a travs de la gama. Una descripcin de la Datura en al sur de la pennsula de Baja California y una clave de las especies comparables se proveen.
41424327|Quercus cornelius-mulleri Nixon & Steele is described from southern California, U. S. A., and Baja California Norte, Mexico. Fused-stellate trichomes, which were previously known in Quercus only in the series Virentes, are reported for the new species.
41425610|Fire represents an important recruitment phase for many chaparral species. Prescribed burns are often scheduled during winter or spring when soil moisture is high in order to minimize risks of uncontrolled fire. However, chaparral wildfires typically occur in the summer or fall when soil moisture is low. Changing the seasonality of burn affects pre-burn soil moisture, burn temperature and timing of germination. High soil moisture during winter or spring burns is hypothesized to lower germination rates of chaparral plants compared to fall burns. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of prescribed spring burns on the germination of chaparral species in the Mendocino National Forest, California. We conducted two experiments to test for effects of moisture on seed germination. In the soil heating experiment, soil collected under chaparral was heated at several temperatures and soil moistures, and germinating seeds were counted. In the seed heat treatment experiment, seeds of 13 species were heated moist and dry to determine the moisture effect on heated seeds. Results indicate a differential response of seeds to heat and soil moisture. Lotus humistratus, Daucus pusillus and Penstemon heterophyllus were negatively affected by temperature in both moist and dry treatments. Ceanothus cuneatus and Genista monspesullana germination increased with temperature in both dry and moist treatments. Germination of six species (Adenostoma fasciculatum, Camissonia contorta, Emmenanthe pendiflora, Epilobium ciliatum, Galium aparine and Malacothrix clevelandii) decreased under moist heat treatments. These results suggest that spring burns may lead to decreased diversity of chaparral due to reduced seed survival and germination of certain species.
41424726|The Streptanthus morrisonii complex is a six-taxon group of closely related serpentine rock outcrop endemics from Lake, Napa, and Sonoma counties of California, USA. Two new subspecies (S. morrisonii subsp. kruckebergii and S. brachiatus subsp. hoffmanii) from Lake County, California, are described. The relationship of these taxa to others in the section is reviewed and descriptions and a key are provided.
41425610|Fire represents an important recruitment phase for many chaparral species. Prescribed burns are often scheduled during winter or spring when soil moisture is high in order to minimize risks of uncontrolled fire. However, chaparral wildfires typically occur in the summer or fall when soil moisture is low. Changing the seasonality of burn affects pre-burn soil moisture, burn temperature and timing of germination. High soil moisture during winter or spring burns is hypothesized to lower germination rates of chaparral plants compared to fall burns. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of prescribed spring burns on the germination of chaparral species in the Mendocino National Forest, California. We conducted two experiments to test for effects of moisture on seed germination. In the soil heating experiment, soil collected under chaparral was heated at several temperatures and soil moistures, and germinating seeds were counted. In the seed heat treatment experiment, seeds of 13 species were heated moist and dry to determine the moisture effect on heated seeds. Results indicate a differential response of seeds to heat and soil moisture. Lotus humistratus, Daucus pusillus and Penstemon heterophyllus were negatively affected by temperature in both moist and dry treatments. Ceanothus cuneatus and Genista monspesullana germination increased with temperature in both dry and moist treatments. Germination of six species (Adenostoma fasciculatum, Camissonia contorta, Emmenanthe pendiflora, Epilobium ciliatum, Galium aparine and Malacothrix clevelandii) decreased under moist heat treatments. These results suggest that spring burns may lead to decreased diversity of chaparral due to reduced seed survival and germination of certain species.
41424726|The Streptanthus morrisonii complex is a six-taxon group of closely related serpentine rock outcrop endemics from Lake, Napa, and Sonoma counties of California, USA. Two new subspecies (S. morrisonii subsp. kruckebergii and S. brachiatus subsp. hoffmanii) from Lake County, California, are described. The relationship of these taxa to others in the section is reviewed and descriptions and a key are provided.
41425410|Swallenia Soderstr. & H. F. Decker es un gnero endmico de California, Estados Unidos de Amrica, extremadamente raro, tiene afinidades taxonmicas inciertas y se encuentra en peligro de extincin. Se presentan observaciones de morfologa, anatoma foliar y micromorfologa de la lema. Muestra una estructura "Cloridoide", anatoma Kranz tipo PCK o PEP-ck y subtipo XyMS + . La lmina foliar, vista en seccin transversal, es nodular debido a que ambas superficies, abaxial y adaxial, tienen surcos profundos. El clornquima es continuo entre haces vasculares contiguos. Las clulas de parnquima incoloro, comunes en la subtribu Monanthochloinae, estn ausentes. La vaina externa del haz es redonda. La epidermis, en vista superficial, carece de papilas y los estomas estn confinados a los surcos y estn cubiertos por aguijones y una clula "papiliforme" intercostal. Las clulas cortas costales se distribuyen en largas hileras de hasta 15 clulas o ms. Los caracteres observados en la lema tienen correlacin con los de la lmina foliar, sin embargo, no muestran un patrn definido. Se describe su habitat y se hacen algunas consideraciones adaptativas. Las caractersticas anatmicas no apoyan la ubicacin del gnero Swallenia en la subtribu Monanthochloinae. Swallenia Soderstr. & H. E. Decker is a rare genus, with uncertain taxonomic affinities, endemic to California, USA and endangered. Morphology, leaf blade anatomy and lemma micromorphology are presented. It shows a "Chloridoid" structure, Kranz anatomy PCK or PEP-ck type and XyMS+ subtype. The leaf blade, as viewed in transverse section, is nodular because abaxial and adaxial surfaces have deep grooves. Chlorenchyma is continuous between adjacent vascular bundles. Colourless parenchyma cells, that are common in the Monanthochloinae subtribe, are absent. Outer bundle sheath is round. In the epidermis, as seen in surface view, papillae are absent and stomata occur in the grooves and are obscured by prickles and an intercostal "papilliform" cell. Costal short cells are arranged in rows to 15 cells or more. Lemma micromorphology characters are correlated to those of the leaf blade, but they do not show a characteristic pattern. Habitat and adaptative considerations are described. The anatomical characters do not support the placement of Swallenia genus as belonging to Monanthochloinae subtribe.
41424721|The pattern of anthocyanin pigmentation on flower petals of species of Clarkia sections Rhodanthos and Godetia is reviewed. The petals have large spots, blotches, or bands of red-purple color near the base, the center, the upper margin or in several positions, or are unspotted. A recent genetic analysis in C. gracilis revealed that the large central petal spot characteristic of subsp. sonomensis is allelic to a basal petal spot in subsp. gracilis that is normally not expressed because of the action of a modifier gene. Since Clarkia species display only a small number of discrete pigmentation patterns, I suggest that the major components of pattern differences among them are not complex from a genetic standpoint. Novel patterns can be assembled by substituting aleles at relatively few loci. Additional genes presumably contribute to various details of the patterns.
