20455821|Over an 18-year period (1987-2004), we examined variation in body mass of female Prothonotary Warblers (Protonotaria citrea) captured throughout their nesting cycle. As is typical for many small passerine birds, body mass was greatest during egg laying and decreased throughout incubation and feeding of young. Mass decreased significantly between the onset of incubation and fledging of both first and second broods. Mass loss was gradual during incubation, noteworthy during the first 2 days of feeding nestlings, but did not continue to decrease throughout the feeding period. Mass lost while raising the first brood was regained before initiating the second brood. Mass of female warblers, adjusted for effects of nest attempt, year, clutch size, and day and stage of nesting, increased slightly with age. Body mass of nesting female warblers varied significantly with day of the nest cycle during incubation but not during egg laying or feeding of young. Mass was associated with clutch size during incubation in both first and second broods, but was not associated significantly with brood size when females were feeding nestlings. Frequency of food delivery to nestlings was associated negatively with female body mass. Females typically made more feeding trips per day than males. Feeding rates were correlated among pairs; that is, females with higher rates of delivery were mated to males that made a higher number of trips.
20455822|In July 2001, a Louisiana State University Museum of Natural Science expedition rediscovered the White-masked Antbird (Pithys castaneus) at a site along the Ro Morona in northwestern Departmento Loreto, Peru. Prior to this rediscovery, the species was known only from the type specimen, taken in 1937, and nothing was recorded concerning its natural history. The lack of additional specimens led to speculation that P. castaneus was a hybrid. Here, we present data demonstrating that the White-masked Antbird is a valid species, and we report the first observations of its behavior, habitat, morphology, and voice.
20455823|Despite the fact that the Lesser Prairie-Chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) is a species of conservation concern, little is known about its nesting ecology, particularly in sand sagebrush (Artemisia filifolia) habitats. To find and monitor nests, we captured and equipped 227 female Lesser Prairie-Chickens with transmitters (87 yearlings, 117 adults, and 23 of unknown age) from 1997 to 2002 in southwestern Kansas. Apparent nest success was similar for yearlings (31%, n = 74) and adults (27%, n = 97) but differed marginally (P = 0.090) between first nests (29%) and renests (14%). An estimated 31% of females that were unsuccessful in their first nesting attempt initiated a second nest. The probability that a female would initiate a second nest after failure of the initial attempt was negatively influenced by the day of incubation on which the initial attempt failed. Over 95% of all nests were initiated and completed between 5 May and 2 July. The primary cause of nest failure was predation by coyotes (Canis latrans) and gopher snakes (Pituophis melanoleucus). Mean clutch size, egg fertility, hatching success, nesting and renesting frequency, and incidence of interspecific parasitism were all similar across years and between yearlings and adults. Distances between nest sites were used as an index to nest-site fidelity between first nests and renests and for across-year nesting attempts. Mean distances between first nests and renests were similar for yearlings (1,071 m) and adults (1,182 m). Mean distance between nests constructed by the same female in subsequent years (918 m) did not differ between age classes or success of the first year's nest. Most females (80%) nested closer to a lek other than the lek where they were captured.
20455824|We compared male strut behavior of the genetically distinct Lyon, Nevada/Mono, California Greater Sage-Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) population with that of two proximal populations: Nye, Nevada, and Lassen, California. We measured strut rates and nine acoustic components of the strut display in all three populations. Male strut rates did not differ among populations. Acoustic components of the Lyon/Mono and Lassen populations were similar, whereas the Nye population was distinct. The genetically distinct Lyon/Mono population was more similar behaviorally to the Nye population than the genetically similar Nye and Lassen populations were to each other. Overall, the Lyon/Mono population did not exhibit detectable differences in male strut behavior. Reproductive isolation through sexual selection does not appear to have occurred in the Lyon/Mono population.
20455825|We report a specimen that appears to be a hybrid between Swainson's Hawk (Buteo swainsoni) and Rough-legged Hawk (B. lagopus), which, to our knowledge, is the first hybrid specimen for the genus. There are few reports of hybridization between Buteo species, most of which have been observations of inter-specific nesting pairs. The specimen described herein was collected in Louisiana and initially identified as a Rough-legged Hawk because of its feathered tarsi and the dark bellyband and carpals. A DNA sequence from the maternally inherited mitochondrial ND6 gene was identical to a published sequence for Swainson's Hawk. Nuclear DNA sequences from two introns contained only five variable sites among a panel of five potential parental taxa, but the hybrid sequence was most consistent with parentage by Rough-legged and Swainson's hawks. The feathered tarsi of the hybrid strongly suggested that the father was either a Rough-legged or Ferruginous hawk (B. regalis), the only North American raptors other than Golden Eagle (Aquila chrysaetos) that have feathered tarsi. Plumage and size characters were inconsistent with those of Ferruginous Hawk, and, other than the darkly pigmented leg feathers, were intermediate between the light morphs of Swainson's and Rough-legged hawks. The breeding range of Swainson's Hawk in Alaska and northern Canada is poorly known, but it overlaps that of the Rough-legged Hawk in at least a few locations, albeit at low densities, which may be a factor in hybridization. The occurrence of this hybrid is evidence of the potential for interbreeding between North American members of the genus Buteo, most of which are genetically closely related. Such hybridization could have implications for genetic diversity, adaptation, or the evolution of reproductive barriers. In any case, such hybrids present field and museum identification problems.
20455826|We report on nocturnal hunting by Peregrine Falcons (Falco peregrinus) at the Empire State Building in Manhattan, New York City. From 4 August through 13 November 2004, we saw Peregrine Falcons on 41 of 77 nights of observation. During this period, they hunted migrating birds on 25 evenings, with the first hunting attempt occurring an average of 119 min after sunset. Peregrine Falcons made 111 hunting attempts and captured 37 birds (33% success). Hunting success was highest in September, but was most often observed in October. Peregrines hunted migratory birds at night more frequently in autumn than in spring. Peregrines were significantly more likely to be present on autumn nights when &gt;50 migrants were passing by the Empire State Building. Although the lights associated with skyscrapers are believed to disorient migrating birds and result in many bird-to-skyscraper collisions each year, Peregrine Falcons are able to take advantage of the situation. Skyscrapers provide hunting perches at altitudes often flown by nocturnal migrants, and disorientation caused by the lights sometimes results in birds circling skyscrapers and possibly becoming more vulnerable to predation by falcons.
20455827|I conducted 18 eggshell removal trials at six Mountain Plover (Charadrius montanus) nests in the Pawnee National Grassland, Weld County, Colorado, during June 1994. Eggshell fragments were placed at various distances (10 cm to 10 m) from active nests. Attending adult plovers removed eggshells throughout the incubation period. When eggshells were placed within 2 m of the nest, plovers usually removed them immediately upon their return to the nest. Shells placed farther away--up to 10 m--were removed after longer time intervals. Plovers removed shells by picking them up with their bills and running or flying away with them before dropping them 6 to 100 m from the nest. When returning to their nests, plovers approached by ground. Of the five hypotheses proposed in the literature to explain the function of eggshell removal behavior in birds, only one (reducing cues predators might use for finding nests) predicts removal of shells already outside the nest and disposal of shells far from the nest. Thus, my results support an anti-predator function for eggshell removal in Mountain Plovers.
20455828|I studied seed-size selection among Mourning Doves (Zenaida macroura) and Eurasian Collared-Doves (Streptopelia decaocto), two newly sympatric species for which mechanisms of seed selection are not well understood. I measured and compared mean length, breadth, and thickness of seeds available to, and consumed by, these species in feeding trials of penned birds. Both species selected corn (Zea mays) seeds that were shorter and narrower than average, but Eurasian Collared-Doves selected corn that was thicker than average and sunflower (Helianthus annuus) seeds that were broader and thicker than average. Mourning Doves consumed corn of average thickness, and wheat (Triticum aestivum) and sunflower seeds of average size with respect to all dimensions. Corn consumption by both species seems limited by seed length and breadth, but Mourning Dove consumption of smaller seed types (wheat and milo [Sorghum vulgare]) appears largely unaffected by seed size. Among larger seed types (corn and sunflower), Eurasian Collared-Doves may select thicker- and/or broader-than-average seeds to maximize foraging efficiency. Sunflower and corn seeds consumed did not vary between species with respect to any dimension, but Eurasian Collared-Doves seemed willing to select, and able to eat, broader and thicker seeds than Mourning Doves, which may limit foraging competition between these species.
20455829|Southeastern Illinois is dominated by cropland, and the remaining pastures or grasslands are marginally suitable for breeding Loggerhead Shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus), owing, in part, to limited nest sites. From 1998 through 2000, we recorded poor nest success (26%) among shrikes, although results of earlier studies (1967-1972) in this region indicated that nest success was 72 to 80%. Clutch size (5.7 eggs) and fledglings/successful nest (4.4 young/successful nest) were similar to those reported in previous studies. During our study, generalist mammalian predators were abundant, and most nest failures (88%) were caused by predation. We suggest that the loss of grassland habitat and agricultural intensification has resulted in reduced nest success, and this may be true in other areas of the species' range as well.
20455830|Using video cameras, we documented at least two fledgling Loggerhead Shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus) visiting their parent's second active nest. We recorded 70 visits during a 10-day period, with visits averaging 7 min. We observed the fledglings sitting on the nest contents on 21 occasions. We concluded that these visits were not indicative of cooperative breeding behavior, because the fledglings were destructive to the nest structure and contents, and the adult female exhibited aggressive behavior toward the fledglings. An early reduction in post-fledging parental care by their father (who was of captive-bred origin) and slow development of the fledglings' hunting skills might have caused them to seek food resources from their mother. However, this is the first time that we have observed these behaviors in this intensively managed population.
20455831|We document the first breeding record of Mountain Plovers (Charadrius montanus) in the state of Nuevo Leon, Mexico. On 9 July 2004, we located a nest with two eggs and one chick in a colony of Mexican prairie dogs (Cynomys mexicanus). Mean height of vegetation near the nest was 7.1 cm, and bare ground cover was 41.2% (30 m sampled). Although this record represents the second nesting for this species in Mexico, it is the first to document successful breeding.
20455832|The Double-collared Seedeater (Sporophila caerulescens) is the most common seedeater in southern South America. Because information on its breeding biology is mostly limited to descriptions of nests and eggs, I studied the reproductive biology of the Double-collared Seedeater in southeastern Brazil. I found 41 active nests during seven breeding seasons (1997-2003). Nesting occurred from December to May. All nests found during incubation contained two eggs, eggs were laid on consecutive days, and incubation started the morning the female laid the last egg. Incubation and nestling periods were 12 and 12-15 days, respectively. Only females incubated the eggs. Mean time spent incubating/hr was 52.3 min, and incubation recesses averaged 6.6 min. Nestlings were fed 7.6 times/hr, and although both males and females fed the young, the participation of females was significantly greater than that of males. Predation was the major cause of nest failure. Daily survival rates during the incubation (0.990) and nestling (0.935) stages differed. Overall nesting success was 36%. Although studies conducted in disturbed areas can reveal greater rates of nest predation than those found in undisturbed areas, some Sporophila species seem to benefit from habitat disturbance. The conversion of native habitats to agricultural lands in Brazil, as well as the spread of exotic grasses, has resulted in the expansion of the Double-collared Seedeater to previously forested areas.
20455833|We analyzed diet and prey selection of the relatively unknown albicaudatus subspecies of the White-tailed Hawk (Buteo albicaudatus). Our study was based on an analysis of 259 pellets collected from September 2000 to September 2001 in the municipality of Juiz de Fora in southeastern Brazil. We also assessed the abundance of small mammals with pitfall traps (2,160 trap-nights). Small mammals composed 52.5% of the estimated biomass consumed by the hawks, and selection appeared to be mediated by abundance. The Bonferroni confidence intervals procedure revealed that when abundance of small mammals was higher, the hawks were selective, preying on Calomys tener more than would be expected by chance (P &lt; 0.05); other rodents were consumed less than expected. Oligoryzomys nigripes, Oxymycterus sp., and Gracilinanus spp. were taken in the same proportion as they were found in the field. During reduced prey abundance (October-March), White-tailed Hawks preyed opportunistically on small mammals. Differences in habits and vulnerability of small mammals may explain prey selectivity in the White-tailed Hawk.
20455834|Although post-fledging care by adult males seems unlikely in bird species that are obligate, interspecific brood parasites, there have been numerous reports of adult male Chrysococcyx cuckoos apparently feeding conspecific young. Most researchers currently view these observations with skepticism, in large part because Chrysococcyx and other cuckoo species engage in courtship feeding, and it is possible that field observers could mistake adult females receiving food from courting males for fledglings, especially given the similar appearances of females and juveniles. Here, we report an observation of an extended provisioning bout by an adult male Klaas's Cuckoo (C. klaas) feeding a conspecific individual with juvenile plumage and behavior, and we summarize our observations of similar occurrences in the Diederik Cuckoo (C. caprius) in Kenya. We suggest that the available evidence indicates that male provisioning, and hence potential parental care, is present in these brood-parasitic cuckoos at a higher frequency than currently recognized. The mechanism that causes males to associate with fledglings is unknown, but warrants further study.
20455835|I studied the diet and foraging behavior of fledgling Black-crowned Night-Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax) in a mixed-species nesting colony of Black-crowned Night-Herons and Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula) in New Orleans, Louisiana. In 1 of 5 years, cannibalism of nestlings that had fallen or climbed out of nests was common, accounting for 66 of 94 (70.2%) prey items taken by fledglings. Juveniles took younger conspecifics by both predation and scavenging. Isolated incidents of cannibalism among Black-crowned Night-Herons have been reported previously, but not on a colony-wide scale.
20455836|Black Terns (Chlidonias niger surinamensis) breed locally in freshwater wetlands across the northern United States and central Canada, often building their nests over shallow water on a floating substrate of matted marsh vegetation. Here, we report the first nesting record of this species on a coastal barrier island. The nest, which consisted of two eggs laid in a slight scrape of sand, was located on 6 July 2004 in a large breeding colony of Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) on Kelly's Island at Kouchibouguac National Park, New Brunswick, Canada. The observation also represents the current northeastern breeding limit for this species in North America. Both eggs hatched, but neither chick survived beyond 4 days.
20455837|On 21 May 2003, we discovered a completed Blue Grosbeak (Passerina caerulea) nest in an Eastern Bluebird (Sialia sialis) nest box. On 28 May, the nest contained four whitish-tan eggs with light-brown, streaky and spotty markings, an unusual color pattern for Blue Grosbeak eggs. Species' identification was confirmed by capturing the breeding female in the nest box, and confirmed again later with identification of the chicks as Blue Grosbeaks. To our knowledge, this is the first published account of cavity nesting, artificial or otherwise, for this species.
20455838|The ecology of the White-winged Nightjar (Eleothreptus candicans) is poorly known. Only three breeding populations (one from Brazil and two from Paraguay) are known, and populations are decreasing due to continuing destruction of cerrado habitat. On 14 September 2003, we took several photos of an unidentified nightjar in Beni Biosphere Reserve, Departmento Beni, Bolivia. The bird was later determined to be an adult male White-winged Nightjar. Interestingly, the only previous record for Bolivia was a male collected in 1987 at the same locality and time of year. Because the White-winged Nightjar is non-migratory and secretive, we hypothesize that there may be a sustainable population of White-winged Nightjars in Bolivia, and the paucity of sightings may be due to the species' low detectability.
20455839|Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias) typically prey upon fish and other aquatic organisms, and they occasionally take small mammals and birds. We observed a Great Blue Heron attack, kill, and attempt to consume an Eared Grebe (Podiceps nigricollis). The heron was unable to swallow the grebe, and it abandoned the carcass after approximately 30 min. An examination of the carcass showed that the grebe lacked obvious physical deformities. Our observation, coupled with a similar one nearby, indicates that Great Blue Herons attack and kill birds larger than reported previously.
20455840|A long-term (&gt;5 years) study of Northern Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) provided the first record of runt eggs and two observations of prolonged incubation. During 2004, we located two clutches (n = 11 and 9 eggs)--laid by the same hen--consisting entirely of runt eggs. Mean length, width, and mass were 18.8 mm, 15.4 mm, and 2.0 g, respectively, 26% of the volume and 24% of the mass of typical bobwhite eggs. Based on our long-term data set for bobwhites (n = 3,566 eggs), runt eggs occur at a frequency of 0.56%, within the range (0.02-4.32%) reported for other avian species. The two records of prolonged incubation behavior represented 75 days (326%) and 47 days (204%) beyond the normal incubation period (23 days) of bobwhites. This prolonged incubation behavior is in excess of the time frame reported for most birds exhibiting prolonged incubation (50-100% beyond normal incubation).
20455851|Bachman's Sparrows (Aimophila aestivalis) occupy fire-dependent, longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) ecosystems of the southeastern United States. Their populations have declined, due, in part, to fire suppression and degradation of longleaf pine forests. Populations decline when longleaf stands go more than 3 years without fire. The influence of fire on breeding productivity, however, is poorly understood because territories are large and it is difficult to find the well-hidden nests of this ground-nesting sparrow. In an earlier study, densities of Bachman's Sparrows were similar across pine stands burned 1 to 3 years previously, but declined significantly by the 4th year since burning. To assess whether the decline in density might be associated with a decline in breeding success, in 2001 we used a reproductive index to estimate breeding productivity of 70 territorial males, and from 1999 to 2001 we monitored 28 nests. We examined the influence of (1) season (growing versus dormant) when last burned and (2) years since burning on breeding productivity of Bachman's Sparrows in longleaf pine stands in the Conecuh National Forest, Alabama. Reproductive indices were greater (Z = 1.99, P = 0.047) during the first 3 years after burning (mean = 3.8, SE = 0.4, n = 10) than they were 4 years after burning (mean = 2.0, SE = 0.5, n = 3), similar to the pattern of change in Bachman's Sparrow density. We found no effect of burn season on the breeding productivity index (Z = 0.075, P = 0.94). The parallel patterns of declining density and lower breeding success suggest that Bachman's Sparrow density may be positively correlated with habitat quality. We conclude that burning longleaf pine forests on a 2-3 year rotation will best maintain populations of Bachman's Sparrows.
20455852|Using radiotelemetry, we studied variation in home-range size of the Bachman's Sparrow (Aimophila aestivalis) at the Savannah River Site (SRS), South Carolina, during the 1995 breeding season. At SRS, sparrows occurred primarily in two habitats: mature pine habitats managed for Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) and pine plantations 1 to 6 years of age. The mean 95% minimum convex polygon home-range size for males and females combined (n = 14) was 2.95 ha  0.57 SE, across all habitats. Mean home-range size for males in mature pine stands (4.79 ha  0.27, n = 4) was significantly larger than that in 4-year-old (3.00 ha  0.31, n = 3) and 2-year-old stands (1.46 ha  0.31, n = 3). Home-range sizes of paired males and females (n = 4 pairs) were similar within habitat type; mean distances between consecutive locations differed by habitat type and sex. We hypothesize that a gradient in food resources drives home-range dynamics.
20455853|The Cerulean Warbler (Dendroica cerulea) is a Nearctic-Neotropical migratory bird species that has declined significantly over the long-term. Poor reproductive success may be an important factor contributing to the observed decline, but reproductive output has been measured for very few breeding populations. From 2003 to 2005, I intensively monitored 22-23 breeding territories/year in each of two large forest habitats in southwestern Michigan: oak- (Quercus spp.) hickory (Carya spp.) (2003: Barry State Game Area) and black locust- (Robinia pseudoacacia) black cherry (Prunus serotina) (2004-2005: Fort Custer U.S. Army Michigan National Guard Reservation). I also gathered descriptive data on nonsong vocalizations and age of territorial males. I describe four distinctive call notes, by sex, including the social and environmental contexts in which they were used. Using two independent methods of aging, there was a strong preponderance of after-second-year males at both study sites. Only 9 (n = 7 nests), 12 (n = 14), and 30 (n = 25) fledglings were produced during the 2003, 2004, and 2005 breeding seasons, respectively. Nest heights were the highest recorded for this species (mean = 19-20 m). During the same period, male reproductive success was 0.30, 0.32, and 0.80 male fledglings/breeding male and 0.60, 0.63, and 1.58 fledglings/breeding pair. Productivity estimates, not thought to be self-sustaining, were even lower than those of a well-studied Cerulean Warbler population in southern Ontario. Thus, reproductive output was low in two geographic regions--representing three different forest types--in the northern portions of the Cerulean Warbler's breeding range. The preponderance of after-second-year males at the Michigan study sites and in southern Ontario suggests a need for regional models of Cerulean Warbler population dynamics.
20455854|We evaluated the effect of shorebird predation on invertebrates at a wetland complex along the Illinois River, west-central Illinois, during spring migration. Using a new exclosure experiment design adapted to the shifting nature of foraging microhabitat of interior wetlands, we found that shorebird predation did not significantly deplete total invertebrate density or total biomass in open (no exclosure) versus exclosure treatments. Chironomids and oligochaetes were the most common invertebrates occurring in substrate samples. The density of oligochaetes was lower in open treatments, though the degree of difference varied both spatially and temporally. Shorebird density was positively correlated with the amount of invertebrate biomass removed from the substrate during the late-May sampling period. Our results suggest that shorebirds use an opportunistic foraging strategy and consume the most abundant invertebrate prey. The dynamic hydrology at our study site likely played a role in preventing invertebrate depletion by continually exposing new foraging areas and prey.
20455855|The aggregation of nonbreeding insectivorous songbirds into multispecies feeding flocks during migration and on their wintering grounds is a well-known and important aspect of their ecology. The establishment of multispecies feeding flocks on the temperate breeding grounds of North American Neotropical migrants, however, remains poorly known or understood. To address this gap, we investigated the composition and timing of flocking behavior among several species occurring in the southern boreal mixed-wood forest of western Canada. Of 67 species observed in 216 flocks, the most abundant were Tennessee Warbler (Vermivora peregrina) and several resident species: Black-capped Chickadee (Poecile atricapillus), Red-breasted Nuthatch (Sitta canadensis), and Boreal Chickadee (Poecile hudsonica). Consistent with previous work on Eurasian boreal species, residents appeared to play a pivotal role in flock occurrence and cohesion. Flocking tended to begin in late June, and flock sizes increased throughout the summer. This suggests that unsuccessful breeders, early breeders, and early migrants are the first to join flocks, whereas later-nesting species may delay joining flocks until after their young fledge. We also investigated the propensity of several species to display flocking behavior in areas with and without a superabundant food source--the spruce budworm (Choristoneura fumiferana). These data provided some support for the hypothesis that flocking facilitates foraging, as species tended to flock in areas where food abundance was lower.
20455856|We investigated the relationships between egg nutrient constituents and fresh egg mass in Bufflehead (Bucephala albeola) and Barrow's Goldeneye (B. islandica). We found consistently positive relationships between egg mass and yolk, albumen, lipid, mineral, and water (absolute amounts); however, the proportions of nutrient components to fresh mass were highly variable in the eggs of both species (allometric relationships). In Bufflehead eggs, all components except mineral exhibited negative allometry with fresh egg mass. In Barrow's Goldeneye eggs, only mineral exhibited negative allometry, whereas yolk, lipid, and water all exhibited positive allometry with fresh egg mass. Overall, larger eggs of both species contained greater absolute amounts of nutrients; therefore, larger eggs were of better quality than smaller eggs. Nutrient content, however, was more highly correlated with mass in Barrow's Goldeneye eggs than in Bufflehead eggs. We propose that this may be due to the source of egg nutrients: because of their smaller body size, Buffleheads typically rely more on exogenous nutrients than Barrow's Goldeneyes.
20455857|We estimated apparent annual survival and recapture probabilities for adult Black-headed Grosbeaks (Pheucticus melanocephalus) and Spotted Towhees (Pipilo maculatus) at four sites along the Sacramento River, California. To calculate our estimates, we used capture-recapture mist-net data collected over two time periods at four study sites: from 1993 to 1995 at Flynn, Ohm, and Sul Norte, and from 1995 to 2000 at Ohm and Phelan Island. Our primary objective was to determine whether there were site-specific differences in adult survival and recapture probabilities for each species. Such differences are rarely investigated, yet, if present, suggest site-specific differences in habitat quality, with important implications for source/sink dynamics. We found site-specific variation in Black-headed Grosbeak survival within both the 1993-1995 dataset (Flynn = 0.797  0.496, Ohm = 0.158  0.191, Sul Norte = 0.773  0.131) and the 1995-2000 dataset (Ohm = 0.088  0.090, Phelan Island = 0.664  0.111). For Spotted Towhees (1993-1995 data), the most supported model assumed constant survival across sites (0.602  0.240), but there was some support for site variation in survival, as well (Flynn = 0.653  0.365, Ohm = 0.214  0.253, Sul Norte = 0.632  0.258). These results clearly suggest site variation for Black-headed Grosbeaks, and weak evidence of site variation for Spotted Towhees. For both species, the general pattern was low survival at Ohm, suggesting low-quality habitat there and/or reduced site fidelity. The magnitude of site-to-site variation in survival observed in the Black-headed Grosbeak, and suggested for Spotted Towhee, has strong implications for determining source versus sink population status. To determine source versus versus sink status, we conclude that investigators must not only take into account site variation in reproductive success, but also consider site-specific estimation of adult survival.
20455858|Hatching-year (HY) and presumed HY Flammulated Owls (Otus flammeolus) were captured during a period of pre-migratory activity in central New Mexico from 2000 to 2003. Mass gains were evident through the pre-migratory period. Fat deposition was an important component of these mass gains; muscle growth appeared to contribute to a lesser degree. Fat scores and pectoral-muscle scores were positively related to body mass and to each other, and, from first to last capture, most recaptured owls showed increases in body mass that were accompanied by fat deposition and growth in pectoral muscles. These data add to a growing body of research indicating that pre-migration increases in fat and muscle mass may be interdependent, but the magnitude of increased muscle mass may be too small to be detected at certain scales.
20455859|Island species, particularly endemics, tend to have lower genetic diversity than their continental counterparts. The low genetic variability of endemic species and small populations has a direct impact on the evolutionary potential of those organisms to cope with changing environments. We studied the genetic population structure and morphological differentiation among island populations of the Galapagos Dove (Zenaida galapagoensis). Doves were sampled from five islands: Santa Fe, Santiago, Genovesa, Espaola, and Santa Cruz. Five microsatellite markers were used to determine genetic diversity, population structure, gene flow, and effective population sizes.
20455860|American (Fulica americana) and Caribbean (F. caribaea) coots nested colonially at brackish Southgate Pond, St. Croix, United States Virgin Islands (USVI), following a 50-year rainfall event in mid-November 2003. Breeding occurred during three time periods: seven pairs bred from 6 December to 2 January (early), seven from 17 January to 15 February (middle), and eight from 26 April to 19 May (late) (range of clutch initiation dates = 165 days). Hatching success was high (65.3%), but overall reproductive success was low (27%) owing to poor brood survival. Coots built all but 2 of 22 nests at the water line in sturdy crotches of small, live white mangroves (Laguncularia racemosa); two late nests were built on remnant stubs of dead white mangroves after water levels had sharply declined. Early pairs nested in manglars (islets of one or more mangroves without solid land) farther away from shore and in deeper water than middle or late pairs (65.6 versus 42.1 and 29.0 cm, respectively). Southgate Pond remains the preferred breeding site for coots on St. Croix and the USVI. Coots have also recently nested on St. Croix at seven semi-permanent or permanent, manmade, freshwater ponds where they have probably been overlooked, as coots respond rapidly to changes in water levels at semi-permanent or permanent wetlands. Predominance of non-assortative pairing at Southgate Pond suggests that American and Caribbean coots are morphs of one species.
20455861|We conducted mist netting each October from 1994 to 2004 on Guana Island, British Virgin Islands, and recorded bird sightings to develop a more complete inventory of the island's resident and migrant species. During our study, we recorded four new species for the British Virgin Islands: Magnolia Warbler (Dendroica magnolia; 1996), Golden-winged Warbler (Vermivora chrysoptera; 1997), Swainson's Thrush (Catharus ustulatus; 2000), and Red-necked Phalarope (Phalaropus lobatus; 2004). Blackpoll Warbler (Dendroica striata) was the most frequently captured Neotropical migrant landbird, despite only being first detected in the region in 1989. Captures and detections of other Neotropical migrant landbirds suggest that many species may be more common in the region than previously believed, or, as speculated by other researchers, that migrant routes may be shifting eastward due to habitat degradation on western Caribbean islands. We also used recapture data to establish longevity records of resident species, including Caribbean Elaenia (Elaenia martinica; 7 years), Bananaquit (Coereba flaveola; 7 years), Black-faced Grassquit (Tiaris bicolor; 9 years), and Zenaida Dove (Zenaida aurita; 5 years). Longevities of other resident species were similar to, or slightly less than, those reported elsewhere.
20455862|We studied the breeding biology of the Panamanian subspecies of the Yellow-crowned Parrot, Amazona ochrocephala panamensis, during 1997-1999 in the province of Chiriqu, Panama, to provide basic information regarding the breeding behavior and reproductive success of these parrots in their natural habitat. We recorded parrot behaviors throughout the reproductive period, monitored nest success, and characterized occupied and non-occupied tree cavities. All breeding attempts involved a male-female pair. Clutch size ranged from 2 to 4 eggs, which were incubated only by the female, beginning when the first egg was laid. Incubation averaged 25 days and the eggs hatched asynchronously. During the incubation period, females remained inside the nest for long periods of time, though they often departed from the nest area during early mornings and late afternoons, presumably to forage; during this period, males were not observed entering the nest, though they often remained nearby. During the nestling period, males contributed significantly to feeding the offspring. Pairs nested in trees that were in good or fair condition, and did not favor cavities in any one tree species. As found in many other field studies of parrots, breeding success was low. Only 10% (1997-1998) and 14% (1998-1999) of the nests survived poaching and natural predation. Because nest poaching was the primary cause of breeding failure and poses a serious threat to population viability, we also present data on poaching techniques and the local trade of nestling parrots. Overall, the pool of breeding adults is likely made up of aging individuals that are not being replaced, setting the stage for a rapid population decline.
20455863|We studied Thick-billed Parrot (Rhynchopsitta pachyrhyncha) nest-site density and social nesting behavior from 1998 to 2001 in Madera, Chihuahua, Mexico. The species formed high-density nesting clusters; 45 nesting attempts (30%) involved nesting pairs sharing nest trees, with a maximum of three nesting pairs per tree. The majority of nest trees were live or dead quaking aspens (Populus tremuloides). Clusters contained a mean of 11.5 breeding pairs (5 nests/ha). The highly social nesting behavior of Thick-billed Parrots may have important implications for management and conservation of their breeding habitat.
20455864|Nazca Booby (Sula granti) broods in the Galapagos Islands showed 0% extra-pair fertilization, based on multilocus band-sharing values. The 95% CI of this estimate for all chicks was 0-0.098, and for all broods it was 0-0.139. These are the first data on extra-pair paternity to be reported for a member of the family Sulidae.
20455865|Nest-site selection behaviors have rarely been described for songbirds. Furthermore, male involvement in nest-site selection is generally assumed to be minimal among most species, especially those predominantly exhibiting female nest building. This assumption has held true for the federally endangered Golden-cheeked Warbler (Dendroica chrysoparia), a breeding resident of central Texas. We observed Golden-cheeked Warbler males and females searching for nest sites together on three separate occasions, 2001-2003. Although rare, such observations add to our knowledge of the life history of songbirds.
20455866|During the 2003-2004 and 2004-2005 nesting seasons, we studied parental behavior at seven Magellanic Woodpecker (Campephilus magellanicus) nests in Argentine Patagonia. Food items delivered to nestlings included wood-boring larvae (57.6%), arachnids (13.1%), and vertebrates (4.6%, including a bat, lizards, and avian eggs and nestlings). Less frequent items were adult insects, caterpillars, and pupae. Small, unidentified invertebrate prey made up 19.8% of the observations. Males delivered most of the large prey (wood-boring larvae and vertebrates; 61.7%), while females brought most of the small prey (arachnids and small, unidentified invertebrates; 79.6%), suggesting differences in foraging strategies between sexes. This is the first published account of Magellanic Woodpeckers provisioning nestlings with vertebrates. The frequency of Magellanic Woodpecker predation on vertebrates outside of the breeding seasons is unknown.
20455867|We present the first report of reverse mounting in the Bearded Vulture (Gypaetus barbatus). The reverse mounting, which occurred in the Pyrenees of northeastern Spain, took place between the female and the alpha male in a polyandrous trio. The function of reverse mountings is discussed in relation to the previously reported high frequency of male-male mountings in this raptor species.
20455868|The vocalizations of galliform species are typically sexually dimorphic in that only the males crow. I observed crowing by a female California Quail (Callipepla californica), a galliform species that ranges along the Pacific coast of North America. I recorded the female crowing during a period of the breeding season when many other females were paired. The female's crow was similar in frequency to a typical male crow, though it was slightly shorter in duration. I discuss possible mechanisms and conditions that could result in female crowing.
20455869|While evaluating reproductive parameters in Rio Grande Wild Turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo intermedia) in the Edwards Plateau region of Texas, we observed a case of poult adoption and abandonment of an active nest. In wild turkeys, adoption of poults has been described previously, but during our observation the hen also abandoned her nest at a late stage of incubation. Most research discussing adoption in gallinaceous birds has focused on brood abandonment after hatch. Although poult adoption in conjunction with nest abandonment is probably rare, our observations indicate that it can occur, at least in Rio Grande Wild Turkeys.
20455870|We describe predation of a Green-crowned Brilliant (Heliodoxa jacula) by a Blue-crowned Motmot (Momotus momota) in southern Costa Rica. We did not witness the capture of the hummingbird, but did observe the motmot swallow the prey whole. Although the diet of the Blue-crowned Motmot is highly variable and can include birds, this is the first report of predation on an adult hummingbird.
20455881|Availability of high-quality nest sites is thought to limit breeding populations of American Dippers (Cinclus mexicanus). To examine this hypothesis, we characterized dipper nest sites, nest-site habitat, and productivity in the central Oregon Coast Range. We also made additional nest sites ("created" nest sites = nest boxes, cliff ledges, hollowed logs that we constructed or created) along one of two creeks. Suitable nest sites (1) provided a physical space to place the nest, (2) were above the upper reach of flooding and inaccessible to ground predators, and (3) were very near to, or extended over, the stream's edge. Given these requirements, and within the context of swift, unpolluted mountain streams, dippers exhibited flexibility in their nest-site selection patterns and used a variety of nesting substrates. Streamside features associated with dipper nest sites included geomorphically constrained valleys (i.e., narrow valley floors), the presence of trees in the riparian zone (not tested statistically, but nearly universal to all nest sites), stream shading from overhead vegetation, and locations that were farther from areas frequented by humans (e.g., roads). Dippers readily used nesting substrates that we created, more than doubling the breeding population on a 10-km reach of stream (8 versus 3 nests/10-km reach). Reproductive success was high and not associated with any habitat feature we measured. The factors influencing recruitment in the Oregon Coast Range remain unknown.
20455882|We surveyed indigenous landbirds at two upland, mostly forested sites in southwestern Santo, Vanuatu. One site (Wunarohaehare, 600-1,250 m elevation) lies on the western, rain-shadowed slope of Mt. Tabwemasana. The other (Tsaraepae, 500-700 m elevation) is 16 km to the south, on the southeastern, very wet slope of Peak Santo. These are the richest single-site bird communities yet surveyed in Vanuatu, with 30 species of resident birds recorded at each site, 27 of which were common to both sites, including 6 species endemic to Vanuatu. We judged that 12 of the shared species were common at both sites. The non-overlapping species were a megapode, a parrot, and four understory passerines. We present new data on vocalizations for four species endemic to Vanuatu (Ptilinopus tannensis, Todiramphus farquhari, Neolalage banksiana) or to Vanuatu plus New Caledonia (Clytorhynchus pachycephaloides). We found less seasonality in breeding than previously reported for Vanuatu. Most human impact at the sites today may be from non-native mammals (rats, cats, pigs, cows), along with low levels of hunting and forest clearing. Based on prehistoric bones from elsewhere in Vanuatu, we suspect that formerly the sites on Santo may have supported additional species of megapode, hawk, parrot, and starling.
20455883|We provide the first descriptions of Micronesian Honeyeater (Myzomela rubratra saffordi) nests (n = 7) and nestlings (n = 6) from Saipan in the Mariana Islands. Measured nests (n = 3) averaged 46.7 mm in inner cup diameter, 65.7 mm in outer diameter, 41.3 mm in cup height, and 55.3 mm in external nest height. We found all nests in two species of native trees, 1.47-5.1 m above the ground. Nesting materials were primarily vine tendrils and Casuarina equisetifolia needles. We also report observations of parental behavior. Nests, nest placements, and behaviors appeared broadly similar to those reported for this species prior to its extirpation on Guam, and on other islands in Micronesia.
20455884|The Cerulean Warbler (Dendroica cerulea) is currently the focus of considerable management interest; however, our ability to develop effective management strategies is hampered by a dearth of life history and basic behavioral data. Here, we present information on male-female interactions of Cerulean Warblers and parental nest attentiveness that is, to our knowledge, among the first such rigorously collected data for this species. Males feed females during nest building and on the nest during incubation; the relative infrequency of these events suggests that they play more of a role in pair-bond maintenance than they do in enhancing female energetics. Female incubation rhythms were not significantly influenced by temperature, time of day, or egg age. Compared with other Dendroica warblers, we observed relatively infrequent female departures during incubation, perhaps in response to a high risk of nest predation. As the nestlings aged, females spent less time brooding nestlings, presumably to allow for more frequent feeding; however, both males and females exhibited relatively low rates of food delivery compared with other Dendroica warblers. Despite the low rates of food delivery, feeding trips were more frequent at successful nests than unsuccessful nests. Our results suggest that Cerulean Warblers are tightly constrained by the competing pressures of predation risk and sufficient food provisioning for nestlings.
20455885|White-throated Sparrows (Zonotrichia albicollis) display a plumage dimorphism (white-striped and tan-striped) with attendant behavioral differences, including greater aggression levels in white-striped birds and negative assortative mating, in which tan-striped birds pair with white-striped birds. To determine whether morph influences migration timing, which could influence patterns of assortative mating, we evaluated the phenology of northbound migration among White-throated Sparrows from a long-term banding dataset collected at a southern Ontario banding station. White-throated Sparrows are sexed by wing-chord length, but there is an intermediate size for which sex cannot be assigned. When all birds were considered together (both known and unknown sexes, n = 6,243), the white-striped birds migrated earlier by slightly more than 2 days. The sexing criteria, however, appeared to yield a sample that was not representative of the whole population: when we included only birds for which sex was assigned (n = 2,794, 45% of all birds), white-striped birds apparently migrated earlier by more than 4 days, but separate analyses of males (n = 1,511) and females (n = 1,283) revealed no differences in migration timing between morphs. By measuring wing-chord lengths of internally sexed specimens (from the Royal Ontario Museum) collected during April to June (n = 273), we found that in both sexes the wings of white-striped birds were about 2% longer than those of tan-striped birds. When we used these specimen data to recalibrate the sexing criteria, (a) it was possible to assign sex to 1.47 times as many birds (n = 4,121; 66% of all birds), (b) sex ratios of the banded birds more closely approached what appears to be the natural sex ratio (approximately 1:1), and (c) within-sex analyses indicated that white-striped females migrate earlier than tan-striped females by about 1.3 days, whereas there was no statistical difference between male morphs in migration timing.
20455886|Habitat degradation caused by feral grazers has been identified as a possible limiting factor for the endangered San Clemente Loggerhead Shrike (Lanius ludovicianus mearnsi). In 1999, we installed supplemental foraging perches within shrike breeding territories on San Clemente Island and observed shrike foraging behavior before and after perches were installed. Shrike foraging efficiency, determined by measuring foraging attack distances and success rates, was not improved when supplemental perches were present; however, shrikes shifted their focal foraging sites to areas where perches were installed. Shrike home ranges did not change size when supplemental perches were installed, indicating that foraging areas made available by adding supplemental perches were not of higher quality than those that were previously available. However, the addition of supplemental perches may have increased the total foraging habitat available to this endangered subspecies.
20455887|Although the majority of oscine species acquire a song repertoire by imitating songs they have been exposed to, some species also improvise and invent songs. To test the hypothesis that American Robins (Turdus migratorius) both imitate and invent the elements of their whistle songs, I analyzed the song repertoires of wild robins at three locations in western Massachusetts and the song development of five tutor-trained nestling robins. Robins appear to invent or improvise most of the elements in their repertoires (75-82%), but as fledglings and juveniles they acquire the remaining elements by imitating the songs of neighboring birds.
20455888|Throughout the United States, declines in breeding populations of grassland and shrubland birds have prompted conservation agencies and organizations to manage and restore early-successional habitats. These habitats support a variety of birds, some of which have been classified as generalists; thus, often these birds are thought to be less affected by habitat manipulation. More information, however, is needed on the response of early-successional generalists to habitat management, because conservation agencies are increasing their focus on the regional preservation and management of common species. On Nantucket Island, Massachusetts, the goal of the Partnership for Harrier Habitat Preservation (PHHP) has been to restore more than 373 ha of grassland for the islands' population of Northern Harriers (Circus cyaneus). This management program has entailed methods such as prescribed burning and mowing (e.g., brushcutting) to restore and maintain grassland habitat. Over a 3-year period, we found that songbird response to burning and mowing varied among species, depending on subtle habitat preferences and the intensity and type of management. In shrublands, Eastern Towhee (Pipilo erythrophthalmus) and Common Yellowthroat (Geothlypis trichas) abundance declined in mowed areas but were unaffected by prescribed burning. In grasslands, Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis) abundance showed no response to either burning or mowing, whereas Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) preferred unmanaged grasslands. In shrublands, mowing was the most effective method for restoring grassland habitat, whereas prescribed burning had little effect on abundances of shrubland birds and vegetation structure. In grasslands, both mowing and burning were successful in restricting shrubland encroachment and maintaining grassland habitat.
20455889|We studied the movement patterns of European Robins (Erithacus rubecula) at stopovers during spring and fall migration on the southeastern Baltic Coast, Russia. On the 1st, and sometimes the 2nd, day after arrival at a stopover site, robin movements were less aggregated than those made on subsequent days. Search/settling time varied between several hours and 2 days. During this period, migrants either occupied a defined stopover area or left the site. Stopover duration was 1 to 12 days in spring (mean = 2.4 days  0.31 SE) and 1 to 14 days in fall (mean = 3.4 days  0.50). The home-range size of European Robins on the southeastern Baltic Coast did not differ between seasons (spring: 4,320 m  545, n = 15; fall: 3,562 m  598, n = 15) and was similar to that at a central European site in fall (4,264 m  241, n = 14). These home ranges were not defended territories. We found no relationship between the robins' spatial behavior and their fat stores on arrival, although in spring more lean than fat robins stopped for &gt;2 days. The pattern of movements at the stopover was variable, both in birds that arrived lean and those that arrived with much more fat. Stopover duration estimates based on radio-tagging are superior to those based on capture-mark-recapture.
20455890|We compared timing and patterns of prebasic body molt between hatch-year (HY) and after-hatch-year (AHY) American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla) and Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia) in Ontario, Canada. In each body region of both species, there was no age-related difference in the proportion of individuals undergoing molt. Furthermore, there was no difference between HY and AHY American Redstarts in the overall timing of body molt; molt started in early July and lasted until early September. In contrast, HY Yellow Warblers started body molt in late June to early July, while adults began body molt in mid-July. Both American Redstarts and Yellow Warblers displayed age-class differences in the intensity and timing of molt among specific body regions. External factors (e.g., food availability and geographical distribution), and internal factors (e.g., physiological status) may contribute to variations in body molt timing observed in these two species.
20455891|We observed Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) foraging at the landfill in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, 1994-1996 and 2001-2002, to determine (1) diet and time budgets of eagles visiting the landfill; (2) whether food taken from the landfill provided a significant energy source for local eagle populations; and (3) the effects of eagle density and weather on eagle behavior. Eagles fed primarily on human refuse (95%, n = 628), but food items taken from the landfill accounted for only 10  3% of their daily energy needs. Subadults foraged at the landfill more often than adults, and most "refuse specialists" appeared to be subadults. Eagle time budgets consisted of mostly resting (91%), the remainder largely spent drinking (2.6%), scavenging (2.3%), and pirating (1.8%). Resting increased with wind speed, and foraging efficiency declined with precipitation, consistent with the hypothesis that the landfill is primarily a location for resting during inclement weather. Foraging efficiency decreased when number of eagles and piracies increased, and percent of eagles foraging decreased with increased numbers of eagles. The home ranges of only 2 of 11 radio-tagged eagles, both subadults, consisted largely (&gt;20%) of the landfill; home-range size and percent of the home range that included the landfill were negatively correlated, suggesting that most eagles visited the landfill occasionally while a few spent most of their time there. We concluded that (1) the Vancouver landfill was not a major energy source for eagles, in part because their foraging is inefficient due to the large number of potential pirates; (2) most eagles apparently used the landfill primarily as a site for resting during inclement weather (the landfill is protected from the wind, is slightly warmer than surrounding areas due to decomposing refuse and the surrounding conifer trees, and is relatively free of human activity); and (3) a small population of largely subadult refuse specialists appeared to gain much or all of their energy from the landfill.
20455892|We examined territory selection of Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) in experimental treatment with varied groundcovers and densities of planted and naturally occurring oaks (Quercus spp.) used by blackbirds for perching. We also compared vegetation parameters between blackbird territories and unused (i.e., unoccupied by Red-winged Blackbirds) areas. Although perch densities were greater in blackbird territories in unplanted controls and oak-planted treatments without redtop grass (Agrostis gigantea) than they were in unused areas, the low densities of perches in territories planted with redtop grass indicate that perch density is not limiting above some lower threshold. Territories, particularly in treatments with no redtop, tended to have greater mean grass cover and taller grass heights than unused areas. Our results are consistent with other studies in finding that Red-winged Blackbirds prefer areas having tall vegetation and dense grass.
20455893|Although loss of wetlands in southern Appalachia has been especially severe, no avian studies have been conducted in the vestiges of these ecosystems. Our research assessed avian use of southern Appalachian wetlands in the breeding seasons of 1999 through 2001. Site analyses included 18 habitat variables, including total wetland area, area of open water, beaver or livestock evidence, edge type (abrupt or gradual), and percent cover of nine vegetation types. We analyzed avian species richness and abundance at the community level and in guilds based on migratory status and breeding habitat preference. Measures of vegetation and habitat--particularly those resulting from beaver activities--and gradual edges were significantly correlated with guild- and community-level variables. Evidence of beaver (i.e., forest gaps where trees had been felled, ponds where drainages had been dammed; hereafter referred to simply as "beaver evidence") was significantly correlated with greater community-level species richness and abundance. Both beaver evidence and gradual edge were positively associated with greater species richness and abundance of Neotropical migratory birds (NTMBs) overall, as well as with the late-successional NTMB guild. Presence of gradual edge alone also was significantly correlated with high abundance of birds in the early-successional NTMB guild. Beaver and gradual edge may have contributed to higher-quality breeding habitats with relatively greater overall productivity and structural complexity in some wetlands.
20455894|Although the breeding range of the Northern Saw-whet Owl (Aegolius acadicus) is restricted to North America, the northern limits of its range are still unclear. In Quebec, the most northerly confirmed breeding records had come from the Saguenay area (Chicoutimi; 48 25 N, 71 03 W) in balsam fir- (Abies balsamea) white birch (Betula papyrifera) forest and on the Gasp Peninsula (Amqui; 48 28 N, 67 25 W) in balsam fir-yellow birch (B. alleghaniensis) forest. Between 1998 and 2003, however, we documented nine Northern Saw-whet Owl nests in balsam fir-black spruce (Picea marina) forest in boreal Quebec on the Mingan Terraces. These records extend the species' known breeding range northward to &gt;50 N.
20455895|We report the first observation of a House Finch (Carpodacus mexicanus) successfully parasitizing a Carolina Wren (Thryothorus ludovicianus) nest. On 24 May 2005, we found a Carolina Wren nest in south-central Oklahoma containing four Carolina Wren eggs and two House Finch eggs. The House Finch eggs hatched and nestlings grew rapidly. The Carolina Wren eggs hatched but the young did not survive. We observed a House Finch fledgling with the adult Carolina Wrens the day after fledging.
20455896|American Coots (Fulica americana) are known for laying eggs in the nests of conspecifics, but there is little evidence that they regularly parasitize the nests of other species. I found 13 Least Bittern (Ixobrychus exilis) nests, 2 of which were parasitized by coots. These are the first records of coots parasitizing Least Bitterns, and the first records of any form of brood parasitism on Least Bitterns. Nests of Least Bitterns also were parasitized experimentally with a variety of nonmimetic eggs and 27% were rejected (n = 11 nests). This indicates that Least Bitterns may possess some egg recognition abilities.
20455897|On 5 June 2003, a female Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) was found dead in a Carolina Chickadee (Poecile carolinensis) cavity nest near Bucyrus in Crawford County, Ohio. The cowbird had little room in the cavity and likely could not remove itself after laying an egg. Carolina Chickadee nests are rarely parasitized by brood parasites, and the size of their cavity entrances likely limits parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds. This is the first known instance of a Brown-headed Cowbird mortality after laying an egg in the cavity nest of a host species.
20455898|Great Black-backed Gulls (Larus marinus) are known to prey upon a wide range of bird species, particularly adults, young, and eggs of sea-birds and waterfowl. Here, I provide the first account of Great Black-backed Gulls pursuing and attacking, in flight, a medium-sized wading bird, the Glossy Ibis (Plegadis falcinellus). I recorded two observations at Stratton Island, Maine, the northernmost breeding site for the Glossy Ibis in North America.
20455899|A tailless whipscorpion (Phrynus longipes) was observed feeding on an Antillean Crested Hummingbird (Orthorhyncus cristatus) atop a large boulder on the island of Virgin Gorda in the British Virgin Islands. This is the first record of any avian species serving as prey for an amblypygid.
20455900|I report on polydactyly in a Vaux's Swift (Chaetura vauxi). An extra, asymmetrically located toe was found on each foot of one swift. A check of 329 swifts from several museums produced no other examples of polydactyly in this species. A review of the literature and a query over the Internet, however, produced 10 other examples of polydactyly in wild birds.
20455910|We examined the relationship between singing behavior and breeding status in the American Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla) by analyzing song rates, singing mode (Repeat or Serial), and variability of song delivery in relation to the age and breeding status of 129 males in the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest, New Hampshire. Unpaired males spent most of their time (&gt;90%) after dawn singing in Repeat mode, whereas paired males sang sporadically, in Serial as well as Repeat mode (51% of their singing time). Males who lost their mates sang in Repeat mode at rates indistinguishable from males who had not yet obtained a mate. Overall, unpaired males sang in Repeat mode at significantly higher and less variable rates than did paired males. Although a larger proportion of second-year males were unpaired than after-second-year males, we found no evidence that age affected singing behavior. We also assessed the effect of pairing status on male detectability in song-based monitoring surveys (e.g., point counts), and we suggest a field protocol for identifying unpaired males. Simulations of 5-min field samples, obtained from continuous samples &gt;3 hr in duration, suggest that human listeners would be twice as likely to detect unpaired males as paired males. This result suggests that surveys based on aural detections may be biased in favor of unpaired males. In our population, &gt;90% of males who sang &gt;40 Repeat songs in 5 min were unpaired. Unpaired males were &gt;3 times as likely as paired males to sing only Repeat songs in a given 5-min period. These results suggest that it may be possible to identify unpaired male American Redstarts by their high singing rates of exclusively Repeat songs.
20455911|At early breeding stages, male woodpeckers invest heavily in nest construction and defense, but parental contributions to brood defense among Picidae are not well known. We studied the Northern Flicker (Colaptes auratus) to determine whether sex, age, brood size, body size, or body condition influenced defense behavior. When presented with a model predator (red squirrel, Tamiasciurus hudsonicus) during the brood-rearing period, parents exhibited a range of behaviors, such as blocking the nest hole, diving at the model, and striking the model; however, defense scores did not differ between males and females aged 1, 2, or 3+ years old. Although we predicted that defense level would be positively correlated with brood size, we found no such relationship. Adult body size and condition also were not related to defense intensity. We conclude that the sexes may exhibit similar levels of defense because they have similar apparent annual survival rates and males are only slightly larger than females. If flickers optimize clutch size according to the number of offspring they can rear, then there may be no relationship between defense and brood size.
20455912|Balsam fir (Abies balsamea) understory may be an important predictor of Black-throated Blue Warbler (Dendroica caerulescens) and Veery (Catharus fuscescens) distributions in northern hardwood forests that are heavily browsed by white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). We examined the abundance and age ratios of Black-throated Blue Warblers, and the abundance of Veerys, in 16 plots of hardwood forest with different understory composition within a heavily browsed region of the Hiawatha National Forest in Michigan's eastern Upper Peninsula. Four of these 36-ha plots had minimal understory and 12 had dense understory with variable amounts of balsam fir. Black-throated Blue Warbler abundance was significantly greater in plots with an average of 27% balsam fir understory cover than in plots dominated by deciduous understory; no Black-throated Blue Warblers were detected on the minimal understory plots. Age ratios did not differ significantly relative to balsam fir understory density. Veery abundance also did not vary with balsam fir understory density, but it increased with overall understory density. In forests such as these, where deer are abundant but rarely browse balsam fir, active management of balsam fir understory could provide key habitat for sustaining populations of Black-throated Blue Warblers and Veerys. We recommend that managers consider the presence of balsam firs in the understory when planning forest harvests in deer-impacted areas, so that they leave some balsam fir and stagger the cutting of stands with balsam fir over time to create and maintain heterogeneous understory structure.
20455913|We compared migrating behavior of Broad-winged Hawks (Buteo platypterus) at two sites along their migration corridor: Hawk Mountain Sanctuary in eastern Pennsylvania and the Kkldi Indigenous Reserve in Limn, Costa Rica. We counted the number of times focal birds intermittently flapped their wings and recorded the general flight type (straight-line soaring and gliding on flexed wings versus circle-soaring on fully extended wings). We used a logistic model to evaluate which conditions were good for soaring by calculating the probability of occurrence or absence of wing flaps. Considering that even intermittent flapping is energetically more expensive than pure soaring and gliding flight, we restricted a second analysis to birds that flapped during observations, and used the number of flaps to evaluate factors influencing the cost of migration. Both the occurrence and extent of flapping were greater in Pennsylvania than in Costa Rica, and during periods of straight-line soaring and gliding flight compared with circle-soaring. At both sites, flapping was more likely during rainy weather and early and late in the day compared with the middle of the day. Birds in Costa Rica flew in larger flocks than those in Pennsylvania, and birds flying in large flocks flapped less than those flying alone or in smaller flocks. In Pennsylvania, but not in Costa Rica, the number of flaps was higher when skies were overcast than when skies were clear or partly cloudy. In Costa Rica, but not in Pennsylvania, flapping decreased as temperature increased. Our results indicate that birds migrating in large flocks do so more efficiently than those flying alone and in smaller flocks, and that overall, soaring conditions are better in Costa Rica than in Pennsylvania. We discuss how differences in instantaneous migration costs at the two sites may shift the species' migration strategy from one of time minimization in Pennsylvania to one of energy minimization in Costa Rica.
20455914|Coloniality is unusual among Scolopacidae. At Churchill, Manitoba, however, the small, remnant population of Semipalmated Sandpipers (Calidris pusilla) is highly clumped, with nesting density approximating 3-4 pairs/ha, and should be considered colonial. The species exhibits high fidelity to territory, mates, and nest sites--behaviors that promote rapid pair formation and allow experienced birds to increase their reproductive success by nesting earlier than pairs forming for the first time. The value of experience and early nesting was evidenced by the fact that six of seven returning young were produced by experienced pairs and had hatched on the first day of their respective nesting seasons. Nests were placed in dry locations very near open water. Those adjacent to small shrubs had slightly greater success, and young produced from these nests had much higher rates of return than those from nests placed amid sedges. In other parts of their breeding range, Semipalmated Sandpipers are also clumped and seem likely to be colonial. If so, estimates of breeding populations derived from indirect methods, such habitat assessment from aerial photographs, will have limited applicability and will need to be complemented by ground-truthing.
20455915|Human recreational disturbance and its effects on wildlife demographics and behavior is an increasingly important area of research. We monitored the nesting success of American Oystercatchers (Haematopus palliatus) in coastal North Carolina in 2002 and 2003. We also used video monitoring at nests to measure the response of incubating birds to human recreation. We counted the number of trips per hour made by adult birds to and from the nest, and we calculated the percent time that adults spent incubating. We asked whether human recreational activities (truck, all-terrain vehicle [ATV], and pedestrian traffic) were correlated with parental behavioral patterns. Eleven a priori models of nest survival and behavioral covariates were evaluated using Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC) to see whether incubation behavior influenced nest survival. Factors associated with birds leaving their nests (n = 548) included ATV traffic (25%), truck traffic (17%), pedestrian traffic (4%), aggression with neighboring oystercatchers or paired birds exchanging incubation duties (26%), airplane traffic (1%) and unknown factors (29%). ATV traffic was positively associated with the rate of trips to and away from the nest ( = 0.749, P &lt; 0.001) and negatively correlated with percent time spent incubating ( = -0.037, P = 0.025). Other forms of human recreation apparently had little effect on incubation behaviors. Nest survival models incorporating the frequency of trips by adults to and from the nest, and the percentage of time adults spent incubating, were somewhat supported in the AIC analyses. A low frequency of trips to and from the nest and, counter to expectations, low percent time spent incubating were associated with higher daily nest survival rates. These data suggest that changes in incubation behavior might be one mechanism by which human recreation affects the reproductive success of American Oystercatchers.
20455916|We used implanted satellite transmitters to track the northbound (spring) and southbound (fall) migration and possible breeding locations of three Long-tailed Ducks (Clangula hyemalis) wintering on western Lake Ontario in Ontario, Canada. The birds exhibited short, rapid migration movements punctuated by extended periods of up to 30 days at staging areas. For much of the nesting period (10 June to 10 July), the birds remained inland of western Hudson Bay in Nunavut. During fall migration, they circumnavigated Hudson Bay to its eastern coast, opposite the coast they had followed in spring, for a mean travel distance of 6,760 km. Identification of these previously unknown, key migration sites fills some important information gaps on Long-tailed Ducks in eastern Canada, and it augments what is known about important coastal marine habitats in the Arctic.
20455917|Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) show one of the highest levels of extra-pair mating among bird species, yet extra-pair copulations are rarely observed. Despite the suggestion that extra-pair copulations could be taking place away from nest sites, very little is known about movement patterns of individual Tree Swallows during the pre-laying and laying periods. We used radio telemetry to track movement patterns of four female Tree Swallows at dawn and dusk during the pre-laying and laying periods. Our tracking results indicate that individual females differed in their movement patterns: some remained close to their nest site on multiple nights while others were rarely detected near their nest box at night. Despite differences in movement patterns, all four females that we tracked produced extra-pair offspring for which we were unable to identify extra-pair sires, even after sampling the majority of males breeding within our nest-box grids. Despite the small sample size, our results confirmed extensive Tree Swallow movement away from nest-box grids during the prelaying and laying periods. This highlights the need for future studies of mating behavior away from the nesting site, particularly for species that forage and/or roost in communal areas during their fertile period.
20455918|Cuban Parrots (Amazona leucocephala) on the island of Great Abaco in the Bahamas forage and nest in native pine forests. The population is unique in that the birds nest in limestone solution holes on the forest floor. Bahamian pine forests are fire-dependent with a frequent surface fire regime. The effects of fire on the parrots, especially while nesting, are not well known. We measured ambient conditions inside a cavity characteristic of the Cuban Parrot's Abaconian population as a prescribed fire passed over it. Cavity conditions were relatively benign; although temperatures immediately outside the cavity rose to &gt;800 C, inside temperatures increased only 5 C at 30 cm inside the entrance and 0.4 C at the cavity floor (cavity depth was 120 cm). CO levels briefly rose to 2,092 ppm as the flames passed, but dropped to nearly ambient levels approximately 15 min later. Smoke levels also were elevated only briefly, with 0.603 mg of total suspended particulates filtered from 0.1 m of air. Smokey conditions lasted approximately 20 min.
20455919|Open population models using capture-mark-recapture (CMR) data have a wide range of uses in ecological and evolutionary contexts, including modeling of stopover duration by migratory passerines. In using CMR approaches in novel contexts there is a need to determine the conditions under which open population models may be employed effectively. Our goal was to determine whether there was a simple a priori mechanism of determining the conditions under which CMR models could be used effectively in the study of avian stopover ecology. Using banding data (n = 188 capture histories), we examined the challenges of using CMR-based models due to parameter inestimability, adequacy of descriptive power (Goodness-of-Fit, GOF), and parameter uncertainty. These issues become more apparent in studies with limited observations in a capture history, as is often the case in studies of avian stopover duration. Limited sample size and sampling intensity require an approach to reducing the number of fitted parameters in the model. Parameter estimability posed the greatest restriction on the utility of open population models, with high parameter uncertainty posing a lesser challenge. Results from our study also indicate the need for &gt;10 observations per estimated parameter (approximately 3 birds captured or recaptured per day) to provide a reasonable chance of successfully estimating all model parameters.
20455920|We evaluated maximum diving depth and time spent at the nest of fledging Blue-footed Boobies (Sula nebouxii) at Isla El Rancho, Sinaloa, in the Gulf of California, Mexico. Within three consecutive 10-day post-fledging intervals, maximum diving depth was highly variable, but was not affected by sex, weight, or body condition. During the first days of post-fledging flight, maximum diving depth increased rapidly. By the second week after first flight, the plunge-dives of juveniles were almost as deep as those of adults. Parental care and attachment to the nest lasted several additional weeks (up to 40 days after first flight). Although their diving capacity rapidly reached a level similar to that of the adults, it appeared that juvenile boobies took much longer in acquiring other foraging skills.
20455921|We examined vegetative and thermal aspects of roost-site selection in urban Yellow-billed Magpies (Pica nuttalli) in Sacramento, California, from winter 2003 to spring 2004. Vegetation used for roosting included cultivated species such as glossy privet (Ligustrum lucidum), English ivy (Hedera helix), and white mulberry (Morus alba), and native species such as interior live oak (Quercus wislizeni), valley oak (Q. lobata), and California laurel (Umbellularia californica). Percent canopy cover was consistently high (mean = 94%  1.9 SD). Mean roost height was 9.7 m  3.5 SD and the mean height at which magpies roosted was 6.6 m  2.0 SD. Communal roosts were generally located within or near riparian corridors. Magpies roosted in relatively warm microhabitats, but they did not appear to obtain a thermal advantage by roosting communally. The timing of roost occupancy was restricted primarily to times when the roost was thermally advantageous.
20455922|Reclaimed surface coal mines in southwestern Indiana support many grassland and shrub/savanna bird species of conservation concern. We examined the nesting success of birds on these reclaimed mines to assess whether such "unnatural" places represent productive breeding habitats for such species. We established eight study sites on two large, grassland-dominated mines in southwestern Indiana and classified them into three categories (open grassland, shrub/savanna, and a mixture of grassland and shrub/savanna) based on broad vegetation and landscape characteristics. During the 1999 and 2000 breeding seasons, we found and monitored 911 nests of 31 species. Daily nest survival for the most commonly monitored grassland species ranged from 0.903 (Dickcissel, Spiza americana) to 0.961 (Grasshopper Sparrow, Ammodramus savannarum). Daily survival estimates for the dominant shrub/savanna nesting species ranged from 0.932 (Brown Thrasher, Toxostoma rufum) to 0.982 (Willow Flycatcher, Empidonax traillii). Vegetation and landscape effects on nesting success were minimal, and only Eastern Meadowlarks (Sturnella magna) showed a clear time-of-season effect, with greater nesting success in the first half of the breeding season. Rates of Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) parasitism were only 2.1% for grassland species and 12.0% for shrub/savanna species. The nesting success of birds on reclaimed mine sites was comparable to that in other habitats, indicating that reclaimed habitats on surface mines do not necessarily represent reproductive traps for birds.
20455923|We examined age- and sex-related differences in the timing of Wilson's Warbler (Wilsonia pusilla pileolata) migration at four locations in Alaska: Fairbanks, Tok, Mother Goose Lake, and Yakutat. We captured Wilson's Warblers with mist nets for 5 years during spring (northbound) and autumn (southbound) migration. In spring, males passed through our two northernmost sites--Tok and Fairbanks--earlier than females. During autumn, timing of adult migration did not differ by sex, but immatures passed through earlier than adults at all four sites. During previous studies of autumn passage sampled at lower latitudes, the lack of age-related differences in migration timing could be attributed to adults migrating faster than immatures (i.e., if immatures from higher latitudes began migration earlier than the adults, then the adults may have caught up to them at lower latitudes) or to the mixing of breeding populations from different locales. Autumn migration of adults and immatures netted at our two southernmost sites, both coastal locations, preceded migration at our two interior sites. These site-specific differences in the timing of autumn migration are likely the result of our coastal stations sampling birds that breed farther south and arrive earlier than birds breeding in more northerly regions of Alaska (and sampled at our interior stations). Early-arriving populations are likely able to complete their breeding season activities earlier and, subsequently, initiate their autumn migration earlier.
20455924|Loss of oak woodlands to vineyard development in California is a growing concern to conservationists. Analyzing breeding performance of birds that nest in and around vineyards versus those that nest in nearby native habitat can provide information on the suitability of vineyard environments to birds. We placed predator-protected nest boxes in vineyard and oak-savannah habitats and monitored nest-box occupancy, nesting success, and life history characteristics of Western Bluebirds (Sialia mexicana) that used the boxes. Western Bluebirds were common occupants in both habitats, occupying &gt;50% of available nest boxes. Analysis using program MARK revealed that nest survival was not associated with habitat type; however, clutch size was greater and nests were initiated earlier in vineyard than in oak-savannah habitat. Our results suggest that when naturally occurring nest sites are limiting, vineyards could be converted to good breeding habitat for Western Bluebirds with the addition of nest boxes. Nest boxes, however, should not be viewed as a remedy for the chronic problem of habitat loss and degradation.
20455925|We studied the breeding ecology of Taiwan Yuhinas (Yuhina brunneiceps) at the Highlands Experiment Farm at Meifeng, National Taiwan University, in 1995 and from 1997-2002. The Taiwan Yuhina is a joint-nesting, cooperatively breeding species endemic to Taiwan. Males had significantly longer wing chords and tail lengths than females, probably due to sexual selection. Males also had a longer residence time at Meifeng than their female mates, which could be explained by philopatry being greater in males. Alpha males had a significantly longer residence time at Meifeng than beta males, but this was not the case for females, because females did not remain in the same group as males did after their mates disappeared. The breeding season was approximately 6 months long and multiple brooding was common. Nest building took 3 days, egg laying occurred over 3-4 days, the average incubation period was 14 days, and the nestling period was 12 days. Breeding success did not decrease later in the breeding season. Maximum longevity was 12 years, and the estimate of average annual overwinter survival rate for adults at Meifeng was 74%.
20455926|Nest predation is the main cause of reproductive failure in birds, yet the factors that drive predation pressure, as well as the avian strategies to minimize it, are poorly understood. There is a wellknown commensal relationship between ants and birds nesting in acacia trees, but the direct benefit in terms of avian reproductive success has not been tested properly. We used artificial nests to compare success and survival probability of nests placed in Hinds' acacia trees (Acacia hindsii) associated with ants (Pseudomyrmex spp.) with those of nests placed in trees without ants. Nesting success and the probability of daily survival were greater in acacias than in antless trees. All cases of nest failure were due to egg predation, but none resulted from wren activities, as has been reported in previous studies. The results of this experimental study indicate that the presence of ants in acacias may enhance avian reproductive success by reducing the probability of nest predation.
20455927|Carolina Wrens (Thryothorus ludovicianus), which maintain lifetime pair bonds and yearround territories, huddle in pair or communal roosts during the non-breeding season, particularly during cold winter nights. Pair roosting during the nesting season, however, is not known to occur. Here, we report huddled pair roosting by Carolina Wrens in Florida. The dates of pair roosting took place during nest construction through laying of the first egg (9-20 March 2004), and also on the date the fourth egg was laid in a clutch of five (24 March). The wrens roosted in a hanging flower basket located 2.4 m from their nest site. Although huddled pair roosting by wrens during periods of low ambient temperatures in the non-breeding season likely achieves thermal conservation, the benefits derived during the breeding season remain unclear. We discuss the possible thermoregulatory and pair-bond maintenance functions of pair roosting.
20455928|I report predation of an American Crow (Corvus brachyrhyncos) by a Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) in Washington state. The crow was attacked and killed while it was chasing a Redtailed Hawk (Buteo jamaicensis). To the best of my knowledge, this is the first report of a bird of one species killing a bird of a second species that was chasing a bird of a third species.
20455929|We observed a Puerto Rican Spindalis (Spindalis portoricensis, Thraupidae) rapidly move through an area of dense vines by grasping vines in its beak and swinging from vine-to-vine without the use of its wings or feet. This behavior appears to be unique in birds.
20455930|For corvids, the decision to cache is a complex behavior likely influenced by many interacting factors. On 8 April 2004, I observed an American Crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos) caching eastern cottontail (Sylvilagus floridanus) kits taken from a rabbit nest on the Missouri State University campus in Springfield, Missouri. The crow cached at least three kits and flew away with at least one other. Caches were covered with dead leaves and landscape mulch. During the ensuing 3-day period, some caches disappeared, were partially eaten, or were moved to a different nearby location. To my knowledge, this is the first documented case of caching numerous rabbit kits from a single nest, and it is one of the few documented cases of cache-moving by American Crows.
20455931|A Gray-crowned Yellowthroat (Geothlypis poliocephala) nest was discovered in Texas during June 2005, providing the first documentation of nesting in the United States since 1894. The nest was located within the Sabal Palm Grove Audubon Center and Sanctuary in Cameron County, but was depredated within 4 days of discovery. Gray-crowned Yellowthroats are fairly common breeders in northeastern Mexico, but are currently listed as accidental in Texas. The future of this species in the United States is uncertain.
20455942|We monitored two color-marked populations of the Brown-headed Nuthatch (Sitta pusilla) for 5 years and collected data on survival, dispersal, territoriality, and cooperative breeding. Adults (n = 284) were sedentary, maintained long-term pair bonds, and had higher apparent annual survival (66-78%) than previously reported. Territories monitored (n = 347) contained up to five adults; the percentage of territories containing &gt;2 adults averaged 20% but varied widely. Most groups with &gt;2 adults consisted of a breeding pair and a male helper related to at least one breeding adult (n = 8), but several exceptions were noted. The presence of helpers did not improve nest productivity. Apparent annual survival for females was lower than apparent survival for males in one population and may have influenced cooperative breeding. In the other population, apparent survival was similar between males and females. We suggest food resources and other environmental factors may have influenced cooperative breeding in this setting.
20455943|We analyzed capture-mark-recapture (CMR) data from 1,061 Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) using Humboldt Bay, California, during northward migration (Jan-May), 2000-2001. We estimated immigration and emigration rates, and calculated stopover duration (length of stay), volume (total number of birds using the Bay), and chronology (time frame of the migration at this site). Migration of Brant through Humboldt Bay began in late December and ended in mid-May with peak numbers occurring in mid-March (i.e., 13% of the entire flyway population). Median age of newly arrived birds was highest in the first half of February. Immigration probability was nearly constant, but emigration probability increased through time, indicating a seasonally progressive migratory state. Mean (SE) stopover duration from all birds for January-April at Humboldt Bay was 26  2 days. Stopover duration was inversely related to bird age due to age-specific emigration probabilities; older birds arrived sooner and stayed for less time than younger birds. Estimates of stopover duration from concurrent radiotelemetry of 12 birds were consistent with CMR model selection-derived estimates. Humboldt Bay was visited by approximately 28% of the Pacific Flyway Black Brant population in 2000 and 58% in 2001. Estimates derived from this technique offer statutory authorities improved information upon which to base management action along migratory pathways.
20455944|I studied brood-rearing behavior of introduced Swan Geese (Anser cygnoides) in Heidelberg, Germany during 2002 and 2003. Two hypotheses were tested: (1) division of labor between males and females is similar to that of wild Anser species, and (2) parental investment (vigilance behavior) is adjusted for brood size. I used 10-min sessions of focal animal sampling during which I simultaneously recorded the behavior of the male, the female, and a majority of the juveniles every 15 sec. Division of labor was similar to that observed in wild Anser populations: males were more vigilant whereas females spent more time feeding during the first 4 weeks of brood-rearing. As brood-rearing progressed, vigilance and agonistic behavior by both males and females decreased, whereas juveniles decreased feeding and increased vigilance. Adults (males and females combined) adjusted vigilance for brood size. A general linear model showed a significant influence of both brood size and brood age on parental vigilance.
20455945|We evaluated and monitored use of 105-133 nest boxes by Common Goldeneye (Bucephala clangula) and Barrow's Goldeneye (Bucephala islandica) during 1999-2004 on 60 lakes of high plateaus of the Laurentian Highlands, in the boreal forest of Qubec, Canada. Only three species of birds used nest boxes regularly, American Kestrel (Falco sparverius), Barrow's Goldeneye, and Common Goldeneye. The proportion of nest boxes used by goldeneyes in 2000-2004 ranged from 23 to 43% whereas hatching success ranged from 37 to 67%. Successful Barrow's and Common goldeneye clutches averaged 6.76  0.38 (SE, n = 29) and 7.77  0.44 eggs (n = 31), respectively. Predation in nest boxes was not a major mortality factor. Goldeneyes used all nest boxes independent of their location but reproductive success was lower in nest boxes 25-160 m from shore in clearcuts. The number of Barrow's and Common goldeneye breeding pairs increased between 1999 and 2003, but number of broods remained stable after an increase in 2000.
20455946|Red Knots (Calidris canutus) that spend winter in the southeastern United States are known to have been genetically separated from their congeners that migrate to Patagonian wintering grounds for about 12,000 years. We examined and documented differences between the two groups in their use of southward migration stopover locations, flight feather molt, fidelity to wintering zones, and differences in mass at southward migration stopover locations. Red Knots wintering in the southeastern United States do so consistently, and knots wintering in Patagonia have not changed to wintering in the southeastern United States. The two wintering groups have distinct differences in their nonbreeding season biology (e.g., migration strategies, chronology of pre-basic molt), and these differences have been maintained for decades if not millennia.
20455947|Winter roosts afford escape from extreme climatic conditions, reduce heat and energy loss, and provide protection from predators for North American woodpeckers. We monitored the use and characteristics of 12 winter roosts used by nine radio-marked Hairy Woodpeckers (Picoides villosus) in ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests of northern Arizona that had experienced wildfire in 1996 and 2000. Roost trees were larger in diameter than 95% of non-roost trees and on average 2.5 times larger within burned areas of similar severity. Roost trees were within patches less dense than 95% of measured patches across study sites, which were on average 1.5 times as dense. Two-thirds of roost trees were created by fire and were smaller than those created by other means. Six birds each used one roost and three males each used two roosts. Two-thirds of the roosts were outside or on the edge of estimated home ranges. Maximum straight-line distances traveled, from roost to farthest point of home range, were &gt;1 km for 8 of 9 birds. Woodpeckers have a significant role in providing cavities for secondary cavity nesters. Thus, understanding habitat requirements for winter roosts could provide managers with essential tools to maintain or enhance populations of this species.
20455948|The species-group in the genus Percnostola that is sometimes placed in the genus "Schistocichla" is shown to consist of seven, mostly allopatric, species. All seven are distinct morphologically; when their vocalizations were compared, 19 of 21 pairwise comparisons resulted in differences as great as or greater than those of syntopic species-pairs in this family. Differences in the two remaining comparisons were limited to two vocal characters, but one involved a pair whose ranges appear to abut without apparent physical barriers; members of the second pair were separated geographically by 2,400 km. Insights into speciation in the complex are relevant to conservation efforts and ultimately will be related to an ongoing genetic study to suggest a phylogeny and contribute to an understanding of avian evolution in Amazonia.
20455949|We describe the nest and nest site, and provide the first description of the eggs and nesting behavior of the Black-bellied Wren (Thryothorus fasciatoventris) in central Panama. Nine nests were found near tree-fall gaps, swamps, and roads in moist tropical forests. Nests were dome-shaped with a circular side entrance. They were composed chiefly of strips of dead palm fronds, and were generally built in places where leaf litter and other debris had accumulated at the convergence of several vines near the forest floor. Both males and females participated in building the nest. Clutch size was three, and eggs were laid on consecutive days. Egg color varied from creamy to beige with faint to dark brown speckles that were more concentrated at the blunt end. Females were the sole incubators, but males fed the incubating females. Only the female brooded the nestlings once they hatched, but both parents fed the nestlings.
20455950|Bird use of small canopy gaps within mature forests has not been well studied, particularly across multiple seasons. We investigated seasonal differences in bird use of gap and forest habitat within a bottomland hardwood forest in the Upper Coastal Plain of South Carolina. Gaps were 0.13- to 0.5-ha, 7- to 8-year-old group-selection timber harvest openings. Our study occurred during four bird-use periods (spring migration, breeding, postbreeding, and fall migration) in 2001 and 2002. We used plot counts and mist netting to estimate bird abundance in canopy gaps and surrounding mature forest habitats. Using both survey methods, we observed more birds, including forest-interior species, forest-edge species, field-edge species, and several individual species in canopy gap and gap-edge habitats than in surrounding mature forest during all periods. Interactions between period and habitat type often were significant in models, suggesting a seasonal shift in habitat use. Bird activity generally shifted between the interior of canopy gaps and the immediate gap edge, but many species increased their use of forested habitat during the breeding period. This suggests that many species of birds selectively choose gap and gap-edge habitat over surrounding mature forest during the non-breeding period. Creation of small canopy gaps within a mature forest may increase local bird species richness. The reasons for increased bird activity in gaps remain unclear.
20455951|We used reobservation of color-banded birds to index annual breeding site fidelity of four species of songbirds that nest in the northern mixed-grass prairie of northcentral Montana (1996-2005). Territorial males of Sprague's Pipits (Anthus spragueii), and Savannah (Passerculus sandwichensis), Grasshopper (Ammodramus savannarum), and Baird's (A. bairdii) sparrows were located on five permanent study sites (1998-2004) and lured into mist-nets using tape broadcasts of conspecific songs and calls. The proportion reobserved was 5.3% (n = 247) across all banded adult males. Grasshopper Sparrows had the highest proportion of returns (8.9%), followed by Savannah Sparrows (5.4%), Baird's Sparrows (5.1%), and Sprague's Pipits (2.1%). Three nestling Savannah Sparrows were reobserved in subsequent years (n = 193), while no nestlings of the other species were reobserved (n = 401). Our return rates were low for all adults in comparison with typical reports of return rates for songbird species of woodland and shrubland habitats. Migratory nomadism may explain this phenomenon, where grassland migrants are opportunistic in site selection, rather than faithfully returning to potentially uninhabitable former breeding sites.
20455952|Most birds consume hard animal fat (suet) through repetitive pecking. Suet hardens considerably as the temperature declines below freezing. The caloric value of suet during the winter months is such that it is worthwhile for many birds to continue simple pecking as temperatures decline, but with diminishing returns. Some Common Ravens (Corvus corax) exhibit a more complex behavior while caching, or feeding young. I report an apparent territorial pair that repeatedly divided suet by carving deep grooves into it. Substantially larger portions of suet and other foods were isolated through this advantageous behavior and carried off, than would be possible through simple pecking.
20455953|I report on an incident involving a Steller's Jay (Cyanocitta stelleri) and an American Crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos) at a feeding platform. After repeated failures to drive the crow from the platform by scolding, approaching and diving at it, the jay flew into a bush where it worked vigorously to break off a stick. Having broken off the twig, the jay, with stick in bill, approached the crow and thrust the pointed stick at it. The crow lunged at the jay which then dropped the stick. The crow picked up the stick and flew after the jay. This appears to be the first case of a bird holding an object and using it in a weapon-like way during an aggressive action against another bird.
20455954|We describe predictable nocturnal soaring flight in Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura) feeding at a landfill in eastern Pennsylvania. Birds feeding at the landfill returned to their roosts each evening by gaining altitude while soaring in thermals above flared methane vents at the site. Our results highlight behavioral plasticity in this species, which, in part, may explain why Turkey Vultures are so common throughout much of their extensive range.
20455955|Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) are known to frequent rivers and streams during post-breeding. I describe observations of Mallards feeding on fresh Pacific salmon (Onchorhynchus spp.) carcasses in Alaska on two separate occasions during July-August 2005. These observations represent the first reported use of salmon carcasses by Mallards in Alaska. This strategy may be fairly common for a segment of post-breeding and fall staging Pacific Flyway Mallards in Alaska, particularly those that inhabit streams and rivers used by the five species of Pacific salmon during the spawning season.
20455956|The effect of 4.5-g dummy geolocation loggers on the foraging ability of Cook's Petrel (Pterodroma cookii) was assessed over single foraging trips from Little Barrier Island, New Zealand. I compared foraging trip duration and chick provisioning between equipped and unequipped birds and could not detect a detrimental effect of loggers on either parameter. The lack of effect of these loggers may be the result of their small size, the short-term nature of their use, and foraging strategies used by Cook's Petrel. Geolocation studies involving Cook's Petrel and other small gadfly petrel species may be feasible for single foraging trips.
20455957|I describe an Eastern Screech-owl (Megascops asio) hatching three Wood Duck (Aix sponsa) eggs in a suburban nest box. Wood Duck(s) removed all five eggs of a completed screech-owl clutch, the earliest of which had already been incubated for at least 19 days, and laid three eggs in their place. The female screech-owl hatched the Wood Duck eggs, preened the ducklings, and attempted to feed them until they exited the nest box within 48 hrs of hatching.
20455958|This paper describes an extra-pair copulation (EPC) event between two color-banded Sandhill Cranes (Grus canadensis). This is the first documented occurrence of an EPC during the fertile period of Sandhill Cranes. This event adds to the small list of documented EPCs in long-lived bird species with long-term pair bonds. Participating in an EPC may have allowed the female to potentially gain access to a mate with a breeding territory, something she did not have during the previous two breeding seasons. Benefits to the male may have included increasing his reproductive success without having to raise the offspring or evaluating the female as a potential new mate.
20455959|We observed five Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula) on 23 October 2005 swimming and feeding in a small constructed wetland in Boca Raton, Florida. This event occurred 5-10 m from the shore-line in water &gt;1 m in depth over a 2-hr period. We provide the first detailed account of swimming feeding behavior for Snowy Egrets. Elevated numbers of prey fishes at the surface of the pond may have facilitated this previously undocumented feeding behavior of Snowy Egrets.
20455960|The literature pertaining to nesting of the Great Hornbill (Buceros bicornis) is ambiguous regarding whether the birds use mud as plaster material to seal their nest cavity entrances. We studied the breeding biology of the species in southern India and detected no evidence of mud delivery or usage in 183 hrs of nest observations. Chemical analysis of plaster material showed that it was composed exclusively of fecal material and not mud.
20455961|We provide the first description of the nest, eggs, and breeding behavior of the Mrida Tapaculo (Scytalopus meridanus). Data are from one pair in the moist cloud forest of Yacambu National Park, Venezuela during April-May 2004. Two nests, constructed by the same pair, were globular in structure and consisted of mossy material placed in a rock crevice of a muddy rock wall. The eggs were cream colored with an average mass of 4.19 g. Clutch sizes were one in the first nest and two in the second. The species showed bi-parental care in nest building and incubation. Nest attentiveness (percent time spent on the nest incubating) averaged 83.4  14% (SD). Average on and off bouts were 33.24 and 6.34 min, respectively.
20455962|I present the first published record of a foraging association between Nearctic-neotropical migrant bird species during the austral summer in South America. I observed Barn Swallows (Hirundo rustica) and Cliff Swallows (Petrochelidon pyrrhonota) in February 2005 repeatedly foraging on aerial insects flushed by flocks of Bobolinks (Dolichonyx oryzivorous) settling onto soybean plants (Glycine max). Additional observations would be needed to distinguish this behavior between an opportunistic association and a commensal relationship.
20455963|We observed a Violet-green Swallow (Tachycineta thalassina) laying an egg in an active Western Bluebird (Sialia mexicana) nest. The Western Bluebird male and not the female, was aggressive to the Violet-green Swallow but the swallow remained to lay the egg. This is the first documented incidence of which we are aware involving altricial interspecific egg-laying during the nestling phase. We suggest the timing of this event was more consistent with incidental egg deposition, or egg-dumping, than brood parasitism or nest usurpation.
20455964|I observed a male Western Bluebird (Sialia mexicana) capture a western fence lizard (Sceloporus occidentalis), the first reported incidence of vertebrate-directed raptorial behavior in the Western Bluebird. There are no previously published reports of Western Bluebirds capturing vertebrate prey, although there is one previous report of a Western Bluebird carrying an unidentified lizard in the manner of a prey item, and a few reports of predation on vertebrates by the congeneric Eastern Bluebird (Sialia sialis).
20455965|The Yellow Warbler (Dendroica petechia) has a mating system characterized by monogamy and biparental care, and has the broadest breeding distribution of any Dendroica species. When faced with a short breeding season and unpredictable conditions at high latitude, they display physiological responses to help optimize the tradeoff between individual risk and reproductive success. Because these circumstances may also affect behavior, we measured the song rates (songs/hr) of subArctic- and temperate-breeding males during the nestling period. Temperate males sang at higher rates when compared to subArctic males. Maintaining a high song rate while provisioning nestlings may be advantageous if a second brood is attempted. Our results suggest behavioral plasticity as a result of differing constraints on time and reproduction.
20455966|A pair of Red-breasted Sapsuckers (Sphyrapicus ruber) was observed nesting in an electric distribution, creosote-treated, wood utility pole in the Willamette Valley, Oregon during spring 2006. To the author's knowledge, this is the first published account of a sapsucker nesting in a utility pole.
20455967|A Gray Heron (Ardea cinerea) was found alive on 11 October 1996 in Newfoundland, Canada. It was identified as a Great Blue Heron (A. herodias), and prepared as a study skin for a university teaching collection. We give a description of this first specimen for North America and summarize previous records from the western hemisphere.
20455968|We report the occurrence of gang-brooding (i.e., communal brood-rearing) in a population of Northern Bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) in western Texas. Combinations of adult quail (2 mated pairs, 2 males, and 2 females) were observed with broods on several occasions. During the two-year study (2003-2004), communal broods were documented only in summer 2003.
20455979|Rose-breasted Grosbeaks (Pheucticus ludovicianus) commonly breed in the deciduous woodlands of southern Ontario, but have become a species of conservation concern due to recent population declines (2% per year in Ontario from 1966 to 2004). We investigated whether habitat alterations may be contributing to these declines through decreases in nest survival at nest and randomly selected sites in 23 woodlots varying in the intensity of partial harvest. Rose-breasted Grosbeaks consistently selected nest sites with more sapling cover, less canopy cover, and a lower surrounding basal area than available. The best supported model of daily nest survival included a measure of nest concealment, with the top 15 models containing nest concealment indicating higher nest survival rates at less concealed nests. Model-averaged estimates produced positive slopes for canopy cover, sapling cover, and nest height indicating higher survival at higher canopy cover, sapling cover, and nest height. Heavy-cutting practices appear to create woodlots that act as ecological traps. These woodlots provide "preferred" nest sites that result in low nest survival probabilities for the Rose-breasted Grosbeak.
20455980|The Florida Scrub-jay (Aphelocoma coerulescens) is listed as a threatened species primarily because of habitat loss throughout much of its range. The Ocala National Forest in Florida contains one of three main subpopulations that must be stable or increasing before the species can be considered for removal from federal listing. However, little information is available on Florida Scrub-jay reproductive success or predation pressure on this forest. I used video cameras during 2002 and 2003 to identify nest predators and timing of predation events. The presence of the video system did not significantly affect the rate of nest abandonment. Thirteen nests were video-monitored of which one was abandoned, five experienced no predation, three were partially depredated, and four had total loss of nest contents. Snakes were responsible for more losses from predation than either mammals or birds. I monitored 195 other scrub-jay nests (no video-monitoring) and measured the mean number of eggs, nestlings, and fledglings produced per breeding pair. No significant difference in reproductive success was detected between years or between year and helper status. Groups with helpers produced significantly more fledglings (0.5 per breeding pair) and had higher daily survival rates of nests in the egg stage, nestling stage, and the entire breeding season than groups lacking helpers.
20455981|We studied Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) to examine the effect of status and gender on foraging behavior. Foraging behavior of breeding pairs extended beyond separation by foraging height to include zones (bole, trunk in crown, primary limb, secondary limb) of the tree used and foraging methods (scaling, probing, excavating). Helper males and juvenile females maintained partial spatial separation from breeding adults. Helper males maintained spatial separation from breeding adults by exploiting limbs within tree crowns in both longleaf (Pinus palustris) and loblolly-shortleaf (P. taeda, P. echinata) pine forests, but also increased use of boles in loblolly-shortleaf pine in concert with reduced use of boles by adult females. Breeding males tended to forage less by scaling, probably due to the reduced proportion of foraging on boles of trees where scaling tends to predominate.
20455982|We investigated several reproductive attributes among three spatially and morphometrically separable northern populations of breeding Cooper's Hawks (Accipiter cooperii) in differing ecological settings in British Columbia, North Dakota, and Wisconsin during 1995-2001. We did not detect significant inter-year variation in reproduction within any of our study areas. Cumulative clutch and brood sizes were significantly higher in British Columbia (mean = 4.41 and 3.60, respectively) and Wisconsin (4.26 and 3.73) than in North Dakota (3.5 and 3.0), but not significantly different between British Columbia and Wisconsin. Total nest success rates (91 and 82% in British Columbia and Wisconsin, respectively) varied significantly among all three study sites, but were lowest in North Dakota (68%). We hypothesize that smaller clutch and consequentially lower brood sizes in North Dakota may be the result of the comparatively later nesting phenology in this highly migratory population. Our results underscore the significance of clutch size data, and the need for further research on regional and other large-scale variation in avian demographic parameters to help decide if, when, and where population demographics may warrant a management response.
20455983|Grassland birds are considered to be rapidly declining in North America. Management approaches for grassland birds frequently rely on prescribed burning to maintain habitat in suitable condition. We evaluated the relationships among years since burn, vegetation structure, and overwintering grassland bird abundance in coastal prairie. Le Conte's Sparrows (Ammodramus leconteii) were most common in areas that had: (1) been burned within the previous 2 years, (2) medium density herbaceous vegetation, and (3) sparse shrub densities. Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) were associated with areas: (1) burned within 1 year, (2) with sparse herbaceous vegetation, and (3) with sparse shrub densities. Sedge Wrens (Cistothorus platensis) were most common in areas that had: (1) burned greater than 2 years prior and (2) dense herbaceous vegetation. Swamp Sparrows (Melospiza georgiana): (1) were most common in areas of dense shrubs, (2) not related to time since burnings, and (3) demonstrated no relationship to herbaceous vegetation densities. The relationships to fire histories for all four bird species could be explained by the associated vegetation characteristics indicating the need for a mosaic of burn rotations and modest levels of woody vegetation.
20455984|We used radio telemetry to study post-breeding movements of adult female and juvenile Eastern Meadowlarks (Sturnella magna) in southwestern Wisconsin in 2002-2004. Twenty-one adult females were found 58% of the time in their nest field regardless of nest fate. Three adult females were not found outside of the field where their nests were located. Fifteen of 18 females that moved from the nest field at least once moved to Conservation Reserve Program fields or pasture. The average maximum distance females moved was 662 m. Once females left the nest field, 61% did not return. Twelve juveniles from different broods survived to the end of the post-breeding season. Two juveniles did not move from their nest fields during the monitoring period. Eight of 10 juveniles that moved at least once moved into Conservation Reserve Program fields, remnant prairie or pasture. The average maximum distance moved by juveniles was 526 m. Once juveniles started to leave the nest field, 67% did not return. Grassy habitats appear to be important in the post-breeding period for Eastern Meadowlarks. Management should be directed toward maintaining or enhancing the amount and quality of those habitats.
20455985|Tropical birds may differ from temperate birds in their sensitivity to forest edges. We provide predictions about the proportions of tropical and temperate species that should avoid or exploit edges, and relationships between natural-history characters and edge responses. We conducted exploratory meta-analyses from 11 studies using 287 records of 220 neotropical and temperate species' responses to edges to address our predictions. A higher proportion of neotropical species were edge-avoiders compared with temperate species and a higher proportion of temperate species were edge-exploiters compared with neotropical species. Edge-avoiding responses were positively associated with being an insectivore for neotropical birds, and with being of small body mass and a latitudinal migrant for temperate birds. Temperate edge-exploiters were less likely to be insectivores and migrants than temperate birds that were not edge-exploiters. A greater proportion of neotropical birds than temperate birds may be at risk from forest fragmentation if edge-avoidance is a reasonable indicator of an inability to adapt to land-cover change. Future progress in our understanding of forest bird responses to edges is dependent upon greater standardization of methods and designing studies in the context of recent theoretical developments.
20455986|The Banded Ground-cuckoo (Neomorphus radiolosus) is a rare and endangered bird species whose basic biology is poorly known. We provide the first information on nesting biology for the species. We documented two nesting attempts in the Mache-Chindul Ecological Reserve, Esmeraldas Province, northwest Ecuador. Both the first nest, active in March and April 2005, and the second nest, active in May 2005, were in primary rain forest. Both nests were 5 m above ground in small understory trees (Melastomataceae). A pair of adult Banded Ground-cuckoos attended the first nest and contributed equally to incubation, brooding, and provisioning of a single nestling. The nestling spent 20 days in the nest from hatching to fledging and was fed a wide range of both invertebrates (primarily grasshoppers) and vertebrates (mainly small frogs). The chick fledged successfully. The second nest, also attended by a pair of adults, failed during incubation. We relate our findings to what is known of other ground-cuckoo species and discuss the conservation implications of our results.
20455987|The basic ecology of most of the Andean guans is poorly known. However, knowledge of the natural history of members of Cracidae has increased in the last decade, but most studies involve lowland species. We present basic natural history data for the Sickle-winged Guan (Chamaepetes goudotii) on the western slope of the Central Range of the Andes, Colombia. The density estimate for the Sickle-winged Guan in the study area was 13.7 individuals/km and the mean ( SD) group size was 1.5  0.76 individuals. These groups used all forest strata but usually foraged in the middle stratum (8.6  6.1 m). The diet consisted of fruits (84.5%), flowers (3.9%), leaves (5.8%), and invertebrates (5.8%). We observed wing-drumming displays, nests, and fledglings from January through June. We discuss the ability of the Sickle-winged Guan to colonize and establish populations in restored habitats.
20455988|We studied the effect of sunlight (280-750 nm) on Bacillus licheniformis, a feather-degrading bacterium that commonly occurs in the plumage of birds. Colony-forming units (a measure of bacterial abundance) of B. licheniformis were numerous on feathers inoculated with B. licheniformis and shielded from all sunlight, whereas colony-forming units were significantly less common on inoculated feathers exposed to full spectrum sunlight and sunlight from which the shorter ultra-violet wavelengths were blocked. Sunlight appears to inhibit the growth of feather-degrading bacilli. Given that many avian species sun themselves and that feather-degrading bacilli occur commonly in avian plumage, we suggest that regulation of potentially harmful plumage microorganisms through exposure to sunlight could be one reason that birds sunbathe.
20455989|The global population of the Black-faced Spoonbill (Platalea minor) has increased steadily. We estimated global population growth rates of the Black-faced Spoonbill based on annual counts of wintering populations in East Asia between 1991/1992 and 2003/2004. The mean (SD) annual growth rate was 1.13  0.08. The estimated survival rate was 86.6  9.3% based on the annual return rates of color-banded birds in Taiwan between 1998 and 2005. We predicted global Black-faced Spoonbill populations in 2003/2004-2013/2014 using a stochastic exponential model and showed the mean global population in 2013/2014 would exceed 4,000  950. The probability of a global population decline to less than the 2003/2004 level is low (P = 0.06). If the 1991-2004 growth rate is sustained, the probability for the global population to increase to twice that of the 2003/2004 level is 0.98 and the predicted mean wintering population in Taiwan could exceed 2,000 in 2013/2014. Establishment of new protective areas and increasing food availability at existing reserves and adjacent fish ponds in southwestern Taiwan will be necessary to ensure continued growth.
20455990|All historical records of White-browed Crake (Porzana cinerea) in mainland Southeast Asia were south of the Isthmus of Kra, suggesting a Sundaic distribution. The first records from continental Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam, and Laos revise the known resident distribution north almost to China. Information is inadequate to assess whether the species was historically overlooked across this huge area, or has genuinely expanded its range. Several factors suggest the latter, a pattern shown by no other bird species, and surprising given the pressing threats faced by wetlands and rallids in Southeast Asia.
20455991|The search for the Ivory-billed Woodpecker (Campephilus principalis) in eastern Arkansas and northwestern Florida has yielded double raps recorded by autonomous recording units (ARUs) in White River National Wildlife Refuge and along the Choctawhatchee River, respectively. These double raps have been presented as suggestive evidence for the presence of the species in those regions. We present data comparing double raps produced by wing collisions from an aerial Gadwall (Anas strepera) flock to double raps documented by ARUs. Close similarities in amplitude ratios, peak-to-peak times between raps, and auditory quality between ARU recordings and wing collisions from a Gadwall flock illustrate the ability of flying ducks to produce sounds easily mistaken for the double raps of Campephilus woodpeckers. All ARU double raps suggesting the presence of an Ivory-billed Woodpecker should be reconsidered in light of the phenomenon of duck wingtip collisions, especially those recorded during winter months when duck flocks are common across flooded bottomlands of the southeastern United States.
20455992|The Chihuahuan Raven (Corvus cryptoleucus) is abundant and conspicuous throughout its range, but much remains unknown about its breeding biology and social system. We studied the breeding biology of this species in southern New Mexico in 2000 and 2001, and hypothesized that environmental variability of desert habitats represents a major selective force. We predicted that variable food supplies and limited nest sites might select for cooperative provisioning of young similar to behavior in several other members of the genus Corvus. We examined nesting behavior and social relationships of nesting groups. Nest observations revealed that both males and females incubate eggs, brood nestlings, and feed young. Nesting pairs were primarily territorial in the immediate vicinity of the nest, but occasionally tolerated intruders, and at other times were joined by the intruders in communal mobbing of potential predators. Average group size near the nest was 1.7 birds and we did not detect auxiliary birds at or near the nest. We found no sign of cooperative breeding in the population of Chihuahuan Ravens we studied. However, we did find cooperation in predator defense within groups of nesting ravens.
20455993|Black (Coragyps atratus) and Turkey (Cathartes aura) vultures feed heavily on carrion from domestic animals in agricultural landscapes. A recent study indicates vultures at a forested site in South Carolina had much larger home ranges than those residing in agricultural landscapes. Vulture home ranges at the forested site contained few residential or agricultural lands, and we hypothesized that vultures at that site fed extensively on wild carrion. We collected 65 regurgitated pellets from a communal night roost between 16 October 2000 and 9 April 2002 to test this hypothesis. The pellets contained undigested parts of consumed carrion including hair, bone, scales, and claws. Wild mammals, particularly white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), common raccoons (Procyon lotor), Virginia opossums (Didelphis virginiana), and striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis), were common food items. The only domestic animal recovered (in two pellets) was the house cat (Felis catus). This study supports the observations that carrion resources affect distributions and movement patterns of Black and Turkey vultures.
20455994|We document 21 observations of interspecific stealing of nesting material involving Cerulean Warblers (Dendroica cerulea), Red-eyed Vireos (Vireo olivaceus), Blue-gray Gnatcatchers (Polioptila caerulea), Northern Parulas (Parula americana), Black-throated Green Warblers (D. virens), American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla), and Orchard Orioles (Icterus spurius) that occurred during studies of Cerulean Warbler breeding biology. These incidents involved a variety of combinations of nest owner and nest material thief suggesting that each of these species is both a perpetrator and recipient of this behavior in our study areas. Kleptoparasitic incidents occurred at all stages of the nesting cycle from nest-building through post-fledging. Two possible motivations for this behavior are related to saving time in finding nest materials and collecting this material for nest construction.
20455995|We present the first use of necklace radio transmitters to document the home range and dispersal of juvenile Burrowing Owls (Athene cunicularia floridana) during the breeding and post-breeding period in rural Florida. Juvenile Burrowing Owls (n = 4) were detected close to main and satellite burrows during 65 day-time relocations. Home range estimates (95% kernel) for juvenile owls varied from 98 to 177 m. Juvenile Burrowing Owls were not detected near main and satellite burrows during three evening relocations. Dispersal of juvenile owls coincided with flooding of burrows during the rainy season. Juvenile owls upon fledging used an extensive patch of saw palmetto (Serenoa repens) before dispersing beyond the range of ground telemetry capabilities. Aerial telemetry assisted in locating one juvenile Burrowing Owl using scrub oak (Quercus spp.) habitat approximately 10.1 km southeast of its main and satellite burrows.
20455996|We observed 56 forced copulation (FC) events in a breeding colony of American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) in Saskatchewan, Canada during the 2005 nesting season. All FCs were directed at nestlings &gt;21 days of age that were not continuously attended by an adult. The onset of FCs occurred in close synchrony with an unexpected late-season increase in adult copulation attempts. We suggest that FC directed at nestlings is not simply an aberrant and non-adaptive behavior. Rather, copulations with nestlings result from adult male pelicans being inappropriately stimulated to copulate with nestlings when actually seeking copulations with adult females.
20455997|Penguins, Southern Hemisphere birds, were introduced to the Northern Hemisphere several times in the 1930s. None of the four species introduced became established but some individuals survived for at least a decade. Humboldt Penguins (Spheniscus humboldti) were observed in waters off the west coast of North America several times in the 1970s and 1980s and one was caught in a fishing net in Alaska in 2002. Penguins theoretically might be able to swim to suitable habitat in the Northern Hemisphere, but we argue the most likely explanation for their arrival in the Pacific Northwest was by fishing boat.
20455998|We report bilateral gynandromorphy in a White-ruffed Manakin (Corapipo altera) collected near Santa F, Panam in 2004. The specimen had an oviduct and ovary on the left side and a single testis on the right. The plumage was phenotypically female on the right side and male on the left. The weight and genetic affinity of the specimen were characteristically female. Both Z and W chromosomes were detected in genetic samples from multiple tissue types and toe pads from both feet. This report is a novel record of gynandromorphy in a suboscine passerine.
20455999|A female White-tipped Sicklebill (Eutoxeres aquila aquila) was caught on 3 February 2006 at 1,050 m elevation in Agua Blanca, Municipio Andrs Bello, Mrida, Venezuela, 2 km southeast of La Azulita. This account represents the first record of this hummingbird species in Venezuela, extending the taxon's known distribution at least 500 km northeastward.
20456000|It may be reasonable to assume that raptors would likely perish as the result of an injury that potentially impaired their ability to capture prey. We present results from 98 wild-caught raptors that support the converse claim: raptors can and do survive with many types of injuries. We report a conservative injury estimate of 14% for wintering populations of Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis), American Kestrels (Falco sparverius), and Cooper's Hawks (Accipiter cooperii) in northeastern Arkansas. Injuries in these species included broken or missing talons, ulcerative pododermatitis (bumblefoot), missing toes, healed wing fractures, and iris damage.
20456001|This study was based on spring temperatures, laying dates, and clutch size of the first nesting attempt of the Blue Tit (Parus caeruleus) from 1982 to 2004 in Hrvatsko Zagorje rural area (46 00 N, 15 55 E), Croatia. The results suggest that timing of breeding of the Blue Tit is influenced by spring air temperatures. There was a significant correlation between spring temperature and years, consistent with a global warming trend. The date of clutch initiation in the Blue Tit population studied did not decrease over a 23-year period. Correlations between spring temperatures and clutch size, and year and clutch size were not significant.
20456002|We report the first known observation of mother-son parental care and potential inbreeding in Horned Larks (Eremophila alpestris) near Smithers, British Columbia, Canada. The nest was found with four nestlings and was attended by a female and her son from the previous year. The nestlings appeared healthy, were above average mass, and fledged successfully. The high return rates of adult and juvenile Horned Larks at our study site may have facilitated this social pairing by close relatives. The possibility the son was a helper at the nest is discussed.
20456003|The social behaviors of Le Conte's (Ammodramus leconteii) and Nelson's Sharp-tailed (A. nelsoni) sparrows are poorly documented, as are their interactions with one another, even in the prairie marshes they share during the breeding season. We report the regular coincident presence and similar habitat associations of these species at a fall migration stopover, the Baker University Wetlands, near Lawrence, Kansas, over an 11-year period, and describe social behaviors (several previously unrecorded) at the site, including an aggressive interspecific encounter.
20456004|Barn Swallows (Hirundo rustica) historically nested along cliffs, in caves, and in other natural situations. Currently, nearly all reported nests of this species are on walls and beams of bridges, buildings, and other human-derived structures. Both natural and man-made nest sites typically share one thing in common: a horizontal surface for nest attachment. We describe a Barn Swallow nest that was constructed on a branch overhanging a river in southeastern Oregon. This is the first documented occurrence of this behavior by Barn Swallows and we believe it to be the result of high competition for a limited number of suitable nest sites in the study area.
20456005|We report on mortality caused by an evening hailstorm to a night-time roost of Great-tailed Grackles (Quiscalus mexicanus) and European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) in Austin, Texas. The hailstorm was of short duration (6 min), and hail stones were not too large (most &lt;20 mm in diameter). Approximately 7% of female grackles, 12% of male grackles, and 26% of starlings died. Greater mortality in male grackles suggests that preferred roost locations were more exposed to hail.
20456006|I report the first record of Bronzed Cowbird (Molothrus aeneus) parasitism of the Common Bush-tanager (Chlorospingus ophthalmicus). This represents the 97th known host for this cowbird species and the 10th known host from the Family Thraupidae. This record is based on feeding behavior observations and vocalizations recorded in Xalapa, Veracruz, Mexico.
20456016|I used inter-island song playbacks and information on geology, ecology, and behavior to investigate biogeography and species limits in the 'Elepaio (Chasiempis sandwichensis), a monarch flycatcher (Monarchidae) endemic to the Hawaiian Islands. 'Elepaio occur on Kaua'i, O'ahu, and Hawai'i, but are absent on the four islands of the Maui Nui group in the center of the Hawaiian Archipelago. It is unlikely that 'Elepaio became extinct on Maui Nui or were excluded by the presence of competing species. 'Elepaio are absent in the fossil record on all four islands of Maui Nui, but occur in the fossil record on all three islands they currently inhabit. They have adapted to a variety of forested habitats and are more resistant to alien diseases than other bird species that have persisted on Maui Nui. 'Elepaio on each island responded most strongly to songs from their own island. Response to foreign songs was asymmetrical. Hawai'i 'Elepaio responded to songs from Kaua'i, suggesting that 'Elepaio on Kaua'i and Hawai'i share a more recent common ancestry. The sequence of colonization events that led to the current distribution was most likely: (1) Kaua'i to O'ahu and (2) Kaua'i to Hawai'i. Geologic and genetic evidence indicate the 'Elepaio lineage arrived in the Hawaiian Islands 1.5-1.9 million years ago. 'Elepaio probably were blown from Kaua'i to Hawai'i during storms, skipping several of the stepping-stones in the Hawaiian chain. The low level of foreign song recognition indicates song could inhibit interbreeding and might serve as an isolating mechanism.
20456017|Wood-warblers (Parulidae) have species-specific flight calls given day and night in migration. These vocalizations are believed to maintain flocks and to stimulate migratory activity during migration. However, anecdotal evidence suggests that warblers also give flight calls during non-migratory periods. I examined use of flight calls during the nesting, fledgling, and wintering periods in 23 species of warblers to clarify the seasonal pattern of occurrence for this type of vocalization. Flight calls recorded during migratory and non-migratory periods were similar. The Nashville Warbler (Vermivora ruficapilla) was the only species that gave flight calls during the nesting period and it did so rarely. Half of the species surveyed during fledgling periods and nearly half (47.8%) of the species surveyed during wintering periods gave flight calls. Calls per minute rates during the nesting period were an order of magnitude lower than in the fledgling and wintering periods. Flight calls are most common during migration but this vocalization in warblers is not limited to migratory periods. Flight calls may have functions additional to those during migration.
20456018|Bird song has been shown to be important in both inter- and intrasexual selection. Elaboration of the latter trait has been studied extensively. I conducted a field experiment to investigate the role of song in territory establishment of the Prothonotary Warbler (Protonotaria citrea). Songs were recorded for 31 males and song parameters were regressed against dates of territory acquisition, territory size, and territory location. In addition, feeders were placed in the territories of 17 randomly selected males. Song recordings from these males over the entire breeding season were compared with a reference group of 14 males. Males that sang more frequently acquired territories in preferred locations and earlier in the breeding season. A significant change occurred in song rate over the breeding season for males provided supplemental food. These findings suggest that physiological condition constrains song parameters that are important in territory establishment in the Prothonotary Warbler.
20456019|We studied parental provisioning rates and nestling body condition in an introgressed population of Golden-winged Warblers (Vermivora chrysoptera) in eastern Ontario. Twelve nests were monitored until the young fledged; six nests were parented by phenotypically pure Golden-winged Warbler males and females, and six were parented by pure Golden-winged Warbler males mated with introgressed hybrid females. Nestlings that had a hybrid parent did not show differences in body condition from nestlings with two Golden-winged Warbler parents. Provisioning patterns were examined for potential relationships with several different factors: gender of the parent (male vs. female), nestling age, pair type (pure vs. hybrid), and the proportion of extra-pair young in the brood. Both males and females increased their provisioning rates as nestlings grew, and males consistently provisioned at higher rates than females. Golden-winged Warbler parents and hybrid parents did not show significant differences in provisioning rates. Females significantly increased provisioning rates with increasing levels of extra-pair paternity. Our results suggest that hybrid nestlings are not at a disadvantage in terms of body condition, and that hybrid parents are equally adept at provisioning their young as are phenotypic Golden-winged Warbler parents.
20456020|Information on provisioning behavior of birds in the Indian subcontinent is almost negligible. We studied provisioning of nestlings of the Oriental Magpie-robin (Copsychus saularis) in 11 nests in relation to brood size, nestling age, and time of day during March-July 2006. Both parents fed the nestlings. However, the rate of provisioning trips by females was higher (t = 9.51, df = 10, P &lt; 0.01) than for males. Brood size and time of day did not affect the provisioning rate. Age of nestlings was an important factor affecting rate of parental provisioning. Nestlings were fed more as they became older and there was correlation (Spearman's rho = 1) between parental provisioning trips and nestling age.
20456021|We delineate the winter distributions of the five subspecies of Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed (Ammodramus caudacutus) and Nelson's Sharp-tailed (A. nelsoni) sparrows, and comment on patterns of migration. The two subspecies of A. caudacutus (A. c. caudacutus, A. c. diversus) have similar core winter ranges that extend along the Atlantic coast from North Carolina to northeastern Florida. They also occupy two isolated areas within peninsular Florida in Everglades National Park and on the northwest Gulf coast. Migration in A. caudacutus is mainly confined to the coast. The subspecies of A. nelsoni (A. n. nelsoni, A. n. alterus, A. n. subvirgatus) occupy different but overlapping winter ranges. A. n. nelsoni is the most widespread, occurring from North Carolina to Texas. Some birds migrate along the Atlantic coast southwards in fall, and others follow interior routes through the Mississippi River watershed in both fall and spring. We suggest A. n. nelsoni wintering along the Atlantic coast in spring fly directly inland towards their northern breeding areas. Some birds in fall also approach the southeastern coastline directly across the Appalachian Mountains. A. n. alterus mainly winters along the southeastern Atlantic coast to Florida, and in fewer numbers along the Gulf coast at least to Louisiana. Some A. n. alterus may migrate to the Gulf coast directly via inland routes west of the Appalachian Mountains. A. n. subvirgatus has the most limited wintering distribution, from South Carolina to northeast Florida, and is strictly a coastal migrant south of New England. Limited wintering ranges and narrow winter habitat requirements place continental populations of sharp-tailed sparrows at risk.
20456022|Conservation of threatened species requires knowledge of individual movements within and among spatially distinct subpopulations. We quantified philopatry, local dispersal, and number of breeding sites used by 62 Western Snowy Plovers (Charadrius alexandrinus nivosus) that were marked as chicks and returned to a breeding area in coastal northern California. Slightly more males (17%) than females (12%) returned to the study area. Natal dispersal (distance between natal nest and first nest as a yearling) was similar for males and females, and greater than reported for other shorebirds. Philopatric plovers dispersed shorter distances between successive nests within a breeding season compared to the distance between successive nests from one year to the next. Most males and females that bred locally wintered in the study area. Those that wintered locally tended to be from later clutches compared to the few migrants that hatched earlier in the season. The population of Snowy Plovers in coastal northern California is linked by dispersal with other breeding plovers along the Pacific coast. Dispersal estimates indicate that wide-ranging movements are typical of Snowy Plovers throughout their range, which should facilitate recolonization of habitats.
20456023|We examined growth rates and physical development of four body characteristics (mass, wing chord, bill length, and head width) of Lesser Prairie-chickens (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) 3 to 111 days post-hatch in southeastern New Mexico. Growth rates, inflection points, and selected growth curves (logistic and Gompertz) associated with body mass and wing chord were similar between Lesser Prairie-chickens in New Mexico and Kansas. The asymptotic body mass (713  7 g) was less for female and male yearling Lesser Prairie-chickens in New Mexico than for either yearling females or males in Kansas (male: 789  4, female: 719  6). Juvenile Lesser Prairie-chickens in New Mexico achieved 90% of their asymptotic body mass 7 days faster than Lesser Prairie-chickens in Kansas.
20456024|We examined abiotic and biotic variables potentially associated with Northern Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) nest-site selection and nest success in southern Texas, USA during 2002-2005. These data were used to characterize bobwhite nest-site selection, and to develop and evaluate models of daily nest survival in Program MARK. Nest sites (n = 123) had greater visual obscurity (3.50 vs. 2.60 dm) and vegetation height (64 vs. 47 cm), and less bare ground (11 vs. 25%) compared to random locations (n = 123). The two best models indicated daily nest survival increased with increasing mean maximum temperature and increasing cumulative precipitation. The model-averaged ( SE) estimate for bobwhite daily nest survival was 0.9593  0.0060. These results suggest that bobwhites selected for a specific range of nest-site microhabitat attributes, but that nest predation was largely random. Bobwhite nest survival and productivity in semiarid, subtropical, southern Texas may be largely dependent on weather factors (e.g., temperature and precipitation).
20456025|I assessed changes in bird distributions associated with alteration of riparian willow (Salix spp.) habitat by supplementally-fed elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) in western Wyoming, USA. Bird communities in stands close to (n = 4) and distant from (n = 4) feeding stations were dissimilar (complement of the Morisita-Horn index = 0.27). Stands close to feeding stations had lower species richness and relative abundances of all birds while relative abundances of all shrub-steppe species were greater, an effect of elk-induced conversion of willow to shrub-steppe habitat. Elk affected habitat mainly by reducing willow cover &lt;2 m in height. Reductions in willow cover at &gt;0.5-1 and &gt;1-2 m, relative to 11 alternative variables, were responsible for declines in Willow Flycatchers (Empidonax traillii), MacGillivray's Warblers (Oporornis tolmiei), and Fox Sparrows (Passerella iliaca). Elk feeding in the Gros Ventre River Valley had reduced but similar effects on birds and habitat despite a smaller number of elk fed (1,900 vs. 9,200 annually for 1994-1998) and a shorter duration of feeding (initiation in 1960 vs. 1912) relative to the National Elk Refuge. These effects can extend at least 1.5 km.
20456026|We surveyed birds during breeding, migratory, and wintering seasons in forest patches of two fragmented landscapes in the Valley and Ridge Province of south-central Pennsylvania during 1994-1996. Our objective was to examine presence of species in relation to forest-patch size (&lt;2, 6-20, 40-150, and &gt;1,500 ha) and extent of regional fragmentation. Several species, particularly long-distance migrants (e.g., Eastern Woodpewee [Contopus virens], Red-eyed Vireo [Vireo olivaceus], Wood Thrush [Hylocichla mustelina], Worm-eating Warbler [Helmitheros vermivorum], and Scarlet Tanager [Piranga olivacea]), were more likely to occur in larger forest patches than in smaller patches during the breeding and spring-migratory seasons. Short-distance migrants (e.g., American Robin [Turdus migratorius], Gray Catbird [Dumetella carolinensis], and Eastern Towhee [Pipilo erythrophthalmus]), responded to fragmentation at a regional scale and were more commonly encountered in the more fragmented landscape, particularly during migratory periods. Species observed during fall migration were not influenced by patch size. The Pileated Woodpecker (Dryocopus pileatus) responded positively to patch size in all seasons, whereas the Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia) was influenced negatively by patch size in three of four seasons. More research should be conducted at sites during winter and migration to corroborate these results and to examine the role patch size may have in long-term survivorship of migratory birds.
20456027|Seasonal fruits are an important food resource for small songbirds during autumn migration in southern New England. Therefore, conservation and management of important stopover sites used by migrating birds requires knowledge about nutritional requirements of songbirds and nutritional composition of commonly consumed fruits. We measured nutrient composition and energy density of nine common fruits on Block Island, Rhode Island, and conducted a field experiment to estimate consumption rates of three of these fruits by birds during autumn migration. Most common fruits on Block Island contained primarily carbohydrates (41.3-91.2% dry weight), and little protein (2.6-8.6%) and fat (0.9-3.7%), although three contained more fat: Myrica pennsylvanica (50.3%), Viburnum dentatum (41.3%), and Parthenocissus quinquefolia (23.6%). Bird consumption of high-fat, high-energy V. dentatum fruit and high-carbohydrate, low-energy Phytolacca americana fruit was greater than consumption of Aronia melanocarpa, a high-carbohydrate, low-energy fruit. We estimated that migratory birds on Block Island must eat up to four times their body mass in fruit wet weight each day to satisfy their energy requirements when eating low-energy fruits such as P. americana, and they cannot satisfy their protein requirements when eating only certain high-energy fruits such as V. dentatum. Our results suggest that many migratory birds must eat both fruits and insects to meet their dietary needs. Thus, shrubland habitat at important migratory stopover sites such as Block Island should be managed so that it contains a variety of preferred fruit-bearing shrubs and an adequate abundance of insects.
20456028|We compared the feeding choices of an invasive frugivore, the European Starling (Sturnus vulgaris), with those of a native, the American Robin (Turdus migratorius). Using captive birds, we tested whether these species differ in their preferences when offered a choice between a native and an invasive fruit, and between a novel and a familiar food. We examined willingness to eat fruits of selected invasive plants and to select a novel food by measuring the time elapsed before feeding began. Both species demonstrated significant preferences for invasive fruits over similar native fruits in two of three choice tests. Both starlings and robins ate autumn olive (Elaeagnus umbellata) fruits significantly more willingly than Asiatic bittersweet (Celastrus orbiculatus). Starlings, but not robins when choosing between a novel and a familiar food, strongly preferred the familiar food. We found no differences in willingness of birds to eat a novel food when it was the only food available. These results suggest that some fleshy-fruited invasive plants may receive more dispersal services than native plants with similar fruits, and that different frugivores may be seed dispersers for different invasive plants.
20456029|Flooded forests represent an important part of Amazonian diversity, yet the distribution, ecology, and evolutionary history of the avifauna of these forests have received little attention. We conducted ornithological surveys in the Rio Branco Basin, which is entirely in the Brazilian State of Roraima. In this paper, we discuss the presence of 20 bird species recorded along the lower Rio Branco, 16 of which represent new records for the State of Roraima and the entire Rio Branco Basin. Among our most interesting records are four species of white-water river specialists (Synallaxis propinqua, Stigmatura napensis, Serpophaga hypoleuca, and Conirostrum bicolor) that have populations on the lower Rio Branco, isolated from other Amazonian white-water river systems by the black waters of the Rio Negro where they do not occur. We also discovered new localities for the endemic and endangered Rio Branco Antbird (Cercomacra carbonaria), doubling the size of its known range. We discuss the implications of these records in a biogeographic perspective for better understanding the distributional patterns of the flooded-forest avifauna in Amazonia.
20456030|The Black-faced Hawk (Leucopternis melanops) and White-browed Hawk (L. kuhli) are forest-based, Amazonian raptors whose distributions have been considered to be mutually exclusive north and south of the Amazon River, respectively. The occurrence of L. melanops south of the river was first indicated by a specimen collected by A. M. Olalla on the lower Tapajs River &gt;70 years ago. The provenience of this specimen has been contested by diverse authors but both species were recently captured at localities along the lower Tapajs, corroborating the coexistence of L. melanops and L. kuhli in this region. We present four new specimen localities for L. melanops in southern Amazonia, greatly amplifying its known distribution. We also describe the immature plumage of L. kuhli based on three specimens that had been identified as L. melanops.
20456031|We describe the first recordings of a male vocalization of the Turquoise Cotinga (Cotinga ridgwayi) along with reviewing the sound production in the genus Cotinga. Vocalizations were heard in the Coto Brus region of southwestern Costa Rica from late 2003 until early 2005. The vocalization described is different from previous calls known for the species and genus. The vocalization is a pure tone, produced at a high frequency. These vocalizations were observed in a variety of contexts, although more often during alarm or advertisement situations.
20456032|I describe the nesting behavior of the Pavonine Quetzal (Pharomachrus pavoninus) at Los Amigos in the southeastern Peruvian Amazon. I found a single nest cavity 4.2 m above ground in a dead snag in terra firme forest. The cavity contained two pale blue eggs each with a few small brown-buff speckles, of which one hatched. I observed incubation between 18 February and 2 March 2004. Based on an average of 0.7 observation hrs/day, the male appeared to incubate during most of the day from at least 0950 hrs until sunset (near 1745 hrs) when the pair would switch before nightfall. The female appeared to incubate at night and during the early morning. Fifty-six percent of 32 food deliveries observed between 6 and 26 March were tree frogs and 44% were fruits. The nestling fledged on 26 March, 20 days after the first observed food provisioning. The nestling period is estimated to be 21-24 days. The plumage development of the nestling, vocalizations, and other observations are discussed and compared with the Resplendent Quetzal (Pharomachrus mocinno).
20456033|We studied sexual pair behavior and cuckoldry of nine female and five male Reed Buntings (Emberiza schoeniclus) in a large outdoor aviary. Three males established small territories and paired with females. We observed 23 copulation attempts with identified partners during a period of approximately 6 weeks, 10 between social mates, 12 between unpaired females and paired males (extrapair for males), and one between a paired female and a paired male which was not the social mate (extrapair for both). Both males and females initiated copulation attempts which, in most cases, were preceded by precopulatory displays. No forced copulations were observed and females appeared to have an active role in mating behavior.
20456034|We monitored nesting home ranges of White-winged Doves (Zenaida asiatica) in Waco, Texas using field-implanted, subcutaneous radio transmitters. Mean nesting home-range size differed by gender (75.7 km for females, 31.9 km for males, P = 0.17). Mean nesting home-range for all individuals of known gender differed by year (75.6 km for 2002, 32.0 km for 2003, P &lt; 0.001). Within-year mean nesting home ranges for individuals differed by gender for 2002 but did not for 2003. We received reports of 35 band recoveries (2.3% of those banded) through March 2004. Distance moved did not differ by year, gender for adults, or for gender by age. Distances of recoveries from banding sites ranged from 0 to 477.4 km.
20456035|Eurasian Collared-doves (Streptopelia decaocto) have colonized small rural towns throughout Colorado. We document their occurrence in 23 towns in Weld and Larimer counties in northeastern Colorado during the 2004 breeding season. Estimated population sizes in these towns ranged from 0 to 154 birds. Population increases were detected in 17 towns across the 2-month breeding season (Jun-Aug) with these increases ranging from 1.1- to 6.9-fold. We interpret these data as indicating successful breeding and expanding populations. These are the first reliable data on population sizes of Eurasian Collared-dove in North America and may benefit management strategies for this invasive species in Colorado and elsewhere in the Great Plains.
20456036|We quantified the diet of the Rufouslegged Owl (Strix rufipes) by analysing 63 pellets collected during 2003 and 2005 in a small coastal sclerophyllous forest stand at the northern limit of its distribution in Chile (31-32 S). The diet comprised small mammals (frequency = 57.8%, biomass = 99.3%), crustaceans (frequency = 1.7%, biomass = 0.1%), and insects (frequency = 40.5%, biomass = 0.6%). We identified at least 10 small mammal species in these pellets of which Bennett's chinchilla rat (Abrocoma bennetti; frequency = 12.4%) and long-tailed pygmy rice rat (Oligoryzomys longicaudatus; frequency = 7.4%) were the most frequently occurring mammalian prey remains. Terrestrial small mammals accounted for 21.5% by frequency of all individuals and 49.1% of the total biomass; scansorial/arboreal small mammals accounted for only 13.2% of all individual prey and 17.2% of total biomass.
20456037|We studied spatial differences in Barn Owl (Tyto alba stertens) diets in agroecosystems of six districts of central Punjab, Pakistan. Analysis of pellets collected over 3 years revealed the house shrew (Suncus murinus) dominated all diets. This species constituted 75.0% of the diet in the Sheikhupura District, 68.4% in the Okara District, 67.2% in the Faisalabad District, 65.6% in the Toba Tek Singh District, 59.3% in the Jhang District, and 56.3% in the Hafizabad District. Rats and mice together formed 28% of the overall diet while birds (4.2%) were consumed more than bats (2.0%). The greatest diversity in Barn Owl diets was in the Jhang District.
20456038|Examination of 193 whole pellets and a number of partial pellets of a pair of Barn Owls (Tyto alba) in Neve Shiret, a neighborhood of Tel Aviv, Israel during the 2005 and 2006 breeding seasons revealed a total of 711 prey specimens. Six species of small mammals comprised 99.3% of the diet with a frequency of occurrence of 100% in pellets. Levant voles (Microtus socialis guentheri) (48.1%) and house mice (Mus musculus) (32.9%) were the most common prey species. The Barn Owl pair hunted in croplands adjacent to an urban residential area.
20456039|Red-headed Woodpeckers (Melanerpes erythrocephalus) occasionally usurp nests of other species. I compared incidence of nest usurpation in logged and non-logged treatments in a burned ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forest in 2004 and 2005. I predicted that usurpation would occur more often on logged than non-logged sites because Red-headed Woodpeckers tend to nest in more open habitats. Red-headed Woodpeckers nested more often and usurped a greater proportion of host species in logged (n = 6) than non-logged (n = 3) areas, despite host cavities being more abundant on the non-logged treatment. Usurping Red-headed Woodpecker pairs initiated nesting earlier (x = 12 May  2 days) than pairs that excavated cavities (18 May  2 days) which implies an existing benefit to offset the cost of interspecific conflict.
20456040|There is scant information on whether Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) are present at nests when Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) come to lay their eggs. We used miniature digital video cameras to document 10 visitations by cowbirds to five Wood Thrush nests. Cowbirds visited Wood Thrush nests on six occasions when host females were absent and aggressively approached incubating females on four other visits. Parental nest defense did not appear to be an effective deterrent to a challenge by a cowbird. Wood Thrushes were more tolerant of cameras early in the nesting season than after mid-June when they were more likely to accept the presence of cameras if they were gradually moved closer to nests over a period of several days.
20456041|We studied the effects of habitat fragmentation on productivity of Yellow-breasted Chat (Icteria virens) and Gray Catbird (Dumetella carolinensis) in southern British Columbia in a western riparian ecosystem. Nesting dates were later in isolated habitat patches than in continuous habitat patches for both species. We found no direct evidence that habitat fragmentation decreased productivity in either species. Average fecundity did not significantly differ between continuous (2.54 fledglings for Gray Catbird; 1.78 and 1.67 fledglings for Yellow-breasted Chat in 2002 and 2003, respectively) and isolated sites (1.33 fledglings for Gray Catbird; 1.78 and 0.87 fledglings for Yellow-breasted Chat in 2002 and 2003, respectively). Territory size, as measured by mapping perch locations for breeding adults, was smaller for Yellow-breasted Chats breeding in the Okanagan Valley (0.25 ha) than for chats in mid and high-density southern populations. However, overall fecundity and nest success were similar to more southerly populations. These results suggest that both species can persist in a relatively fragmented ecosystem.
20456042|Polygyny occasionally occurs in passerine species that are generally socially monogamous. We document the second case of polygynous mating in the Gray Catbird (Dumetella carolinensis) and provide the first detailed account of this behavior. Daily provisioning rates of the polygynous male documented this male provisioned one nest more than the other (5.9  2.2 trips/hr vs. 1.7  1.1 trips/hr). The difference between the male's provisioning rates diminished when standardized for the number of chicks per nest. Polygyny appears to be an alternative mating strategy for the Gray Catbird in certain situations.
20456043|Macaroni (Eudyptes chrysolophus) and Southern Rockhopper penguins (E. c. chrysocome) have been classified as Vulnerable due to decreasing populations in recent decades. We report on a survey of Isla Recalada, Chile, a site described historically as containing an estimated population of 10,013 (570) Rockhopper and 559 Macaroni penguins. Our survey was conducted on 14 and 15 November 2005 to coincide with peak colony attendance. No Rockhopper or Macaroni penguins were observed on Isla Recalada during this period. This survey suggests the population of these penguins has dispersed due to possible anthropogenic pressures or climate variation, and that both species of penguins have been extirpated from Isla Recalada.
20456044|Artificial lights can have detrimental effects on nocturnal migrant birds and other wildlife, yet some species of typically diurnal insectivorous birds are capable of foraging at night under artificial illumination. Here, we report observations of at least 15 wood-warbler species (Parulidae), one tyrant-fly-catcher (Tyrannidae), and one mimid (Mimidae) foraging at night in areas illuminated by powerful artificial lights. To our knowledge, our observations represent the first report of a mixed-species flock of birds foraging on insects attracted to artificial lights or within foliage illuminated by artificial lights at night.
20456045|Yellow-throated (Vireo flavifrons) and Red-eyed vireos (V. olivaceus) were observed feeding on green anoles (Anolis carolinensis carolinensis) at two localities in Florida and one in South Carolina. Vireos are long-distance migrants that require foods high in fatty acid content, especially when engaging in migration. It is not unlikely that vireos have an opportunistic foraging strategy to obtain the necessary food requirements, including attacking and consuming prey items such as small lizards. This note provides the first published reports of lizards taken as prey by these two species.
20456055|Golden-winged Warblers (Vermivora chrysoptera) are declining in the eastern portion of their range partially due to a loss of shrub-scrub and early successional habitat. We surveyed Golden-winged Warbler abundance in shrub swamp, young aspen (Populus spp.), heavily thinned hardwood, jack pine (Pinus banksiana), and two edge cover types (i.e., swamp/aspen and swamp/mature) in 2002-2004 in northern Wisconsin. Golden-winged Warbler abundance was greatest in young aspen stands (1-10 years of age) and least in the swamp/mature edge cover type. Abundance did not differ among years in any of the cover types. Aspen stem density was positively related to Golden-winged Warbler abundance among stands. The presence of Golden-winged Warblers within stands, at the sampling station scale, was positively correlated with aspen stem density, the amount of low woody cover, and ground vegetation. The most effective way to manage for this species in the north central portion of its range may be through the creation of young aspen forests and by maintaining shrub-scrub habitat.
20456056|Availability of food resources is an important factor in avian habitat selection. Food resources for terrestrial birds often are closely related to vegetation structure and composition. Identification of plant species important in supporting food resources may facilitate vegetation management to achieve objectives for providing bird habitat. We used fecal analysis to describe the diet of adult Wilson's Warblers (Wilsonia pusilla) that foraged in the understory of Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) forests in western Oregon during the breeding season. We sampled arthropods at the same sites where diet data were collected, and compared abundance and biomass of prey among seven common shrub species. Wilson's Warblers ate more caterpillars (Lepidoptera larvae), flies (Diptera), beetles (Coleoptera), and Homoptera than expected based on availability. Deciduous shrubs supported higher abundances of arthropod taxa and size classes used as prey by Wilson's Warblers than did evergreen shrubs. The development and maintenance of deciduous understory vegetation in conifer forests of the Pacific Northwest may be fundamental for conservation of food webs that support breeding Wilson's Warblers and other shrub-associated, insectivorous songbirds.
20456057|We identified arthropods in fecal samples from 56 Southwestern Willow Flycatchers (Empidonax traillii extimus) at three localities in Nevada and Arizona with different plant communities during the 2004 breeding season. We concurrently collected arthropods in flight with Malaise traps and on different plant species by sweep net. These potential prey were identified to Order and counted. Fecal samples contained 57 taxa of spiders and insects including 32 families in 8 Orders. Flycatchers consumed similar diversities (numbers of taxa), but different taxonomic compositions (abundances in Orders) of arthropods among localities. Diets of E. t. extimus more closely resembled compositions of arthropods swept from plants than those trapped in flight with Malaise traps. Fecal samples at Upper Pahranagat Lake in southern Nevada contained arthropod compositions most related to those swept from Salix gooddingii. Fecal samples at the Virgin River near Mesquite in southern Nevada, where Salix exigua and naturalized Tamarix ramosissima grow, contained arthropod compositions most related to those swept from S. exigua. Fecal samples at Topock Marsh in western Arizona contained arthropod compositions most related to those swept from T. ramosissima, the dominant vegetation. The relation between flycatcher diet and arthropod composition on plants was least at Topock Marsh, suggesting prey from other communities are important in supplementing the fauna that develop on introduced Tamarix. The diverse diet of Southwestern Willow Flycatchers may take advantage of the increased nitrogen and sulfur contents of spiders and predaceous insects.
20456058|We collected diet data at 12 Ferruginous Hawk (Buteo regalis) and 14 Swainson's Hawk (B. swainsoni) nests in a short-grass prairie and agricultural community in the panhandle area of northwest Texas and southwest Oklahoma, and in northeastern New Mexico during the 2003-2004 breeding seasons. We documented 959 Ferruginous Hawk and 1,058 Swainson's Hawk prey deliveries during 5,618 hrs of video monitoring. Ferruginous Hawks delivered 10.0  0.7 (x  SE) prey species per nest and typically larger prey. Swainson's Hawks delivered 13.4  1.1 prey species per nest and typically smaller prey. There was a dietary overlap (Simplified Morisita Index [
20456059|We quantified nesting-site habitats for sympatric White-tailed Hawks (Buteo albicaudatus) (n = 40), Red-tailed Hawks (B. jamaicensis) (n = 39), and Crested Caracaras (Caracara cheriway) (n = 24) in the Coastal Sand Plain of south Texas. White-tailed Hawks and Crested Caracara nest sites occurred in savanna, whereas Red-tailed Hawk nest sites occurred in woodlands on the edge of savannas. White-tailed Hawk nest sites were in shrubs and trees that were shorter (3.5  1.0 m) and had smaller canopy diameters (5.5  2.1 m) than those of Red-tailed Hawks (10.1  2.0 m, 13.7  5.8 m) and Crested Caracaras (5.6  1.7 m, 8.5  3.5 m). Red-tailed Hawk nest sites had higher woody densities (15.7  9.6 plants) and more woody cover (84  19%) than those of White-tailed Hawks (5.6  5.8 plants, 20  21%) and Crested Caracaras (9.9  6.7 plants, 55  34%). Crested Caracara nest sites were in dense, multi-branched shrubs composed of more living material (97  3%) than those of White-tailed (88  18%) and Red-tailed hawks (88  18%). Nest sites of White-tailed Hawks, Red-tailed Hawks, and Crested Caracaras were similar to random samples from the surrounding habitat indicating that preferred nesting habitat was available for each of these species at least within 60 m of active nest sites. Nest tree height, along with woody plant and native grass cover best discriminated nest sites among the three raptor species. There was no overlap at Red-tailed and White-tailed hawk nest sites in vegetation structure, while Crested Caracara nests were in habitat intermediate between the two other species. Partitioning of nesting habitat may be how these raptor species co-exist at the broader landscape scale of our study area in the Coastal Sand Plain of Texas.
20456060|We report three cases of hybridization between wild Swainson's Hawks (Buteo swainsoni) and Red-tailed Hawks (B. jamaicensis) identified by using nuclear and mitochondrial DNA markers. The hybrid individuals were field-identified as Swainson's Hawks and sampled from Alberta, Canada (n = 2) and Utah, USA (n = 1). Nineteen nuclear microsatellite loci were used in a factorial correspondence analysis to create genotypic clusters of 468 Red-tailed and 357 Swainson's hawks. Three suspected hybrids were identified by an intermediate genetic position between the genotypic clusters of the two species, indicating a hybridogenetic composition. We examined mitochondrial control region sequence data to identify the maternal background of the putative hybrids; two of the hybrid specimens had Red-tailed Hawk mtDNA haplotypes and the third a Swainson's Hawk haplotype. These results suggest that hybridization between these two species may occur in their shared breeding range and can result in reciprocal hybrid offspring, barring any social, behavioral, or biological isolating mechanisms.
20456061|Numerous researchers have investigated survival of Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) ducklings, but few have modeled survival of ducklings radio-marked at hatch relative to time-dependent factors. We estimated survival of 48 radio-marked ducklings for two study sites (Oakwood and Mickelson) in eastern South Dakota during summers 1998-1999. Our best-approximating model of survival indicated duckling age, study site, precipitation, and the interaction of study site and precipitation influenced survival. Survival of ducklings to 30 days was 0.42 at Oakwood (95% CI, 0.13-0.67) and 0.77 at Mickelson (95% CI, 0.42-0.92). Duckling mortality was 31.9 and 1.6 times more likely for each 1 cm of precipitation at Oakwood and Mickelson, respectively. We suggest this difference was partially attributable to greater cover of emergent vegetation at Mickelson, which potentially reduced body heat loss via evaporative cooling. Our best model also indicated daily survival increased with duckling age. Models containing daily minimum temperature received little support (
20456062|The social behavior of free-living male Tibetan Eared-pheasants (Crossoptilon harmani) is described during their breeding season at a site near Lhasa, Tibet. Four types of male-male interactions were identified. (1) Mate guarding. A male maintained vigilance behavior near his partner. (2) Evading. A male urged the female to avoid other breeding males. (3) Lateral display. A male laterally presented his body to another male and the latter postured submissively. On a few occasions, displaying males escaped alone and dominant males attempted to copulate with mates of these males. (4) Driving. A male violently drove off any males that came too near his mate. These behavioral types emerged as pair members associated in groups in early spring, became extensive as pair bonds intensified, and disappeared with hatching. Paired males occasionally displayed to subadult males, but no display activity was observed between subadult males. These interactions were unidirectional for a group in which all male members were individually identified and revealed a linear dominance hierarchy among the males. I believe that mate-guarding was to detect and evading was to escape the high-ranking males, which potentially obtained (through displaying to lower-ranking males) extra-pair copulations. Advertising quality to impress/intimidate opponents and to attract additional females is likely the underlying reason for male-male display. My observations provide an interesting example of how males behaviorally respond to conflict between gregariousness and maintenance in a socially monogamous mating system.
20456063|The Yellow-shouldered Parrot (Amazona barbadensis) has a disjunct geographical distribution and the smallest population of the species inhabits La Blanquilla Island in the southern part of the Caribbean Sea. We conducted field work from 1993 to 1998 to gather information on the natural history and population status of this parrot on La Blanquilla. We compared that information with similar data gathered previously from Margarita Island. We found three communal roosts on La Blanquilla and estimated the parrot population to be  100 individuals. We found an average of 8.8  3.6 active nests/year; all nests were in the central and western parts of the island, mainly in tree cavities of Guaiacum officinale. Nests on La Blanquilla Island were closer to the ground than nests on Margarita Island. The breeding season on La Blanquilla Island started later and clutch size was lower (2.24  0.95 eggs/nest) than on Margarita Island. Parrots were observed foraging on 12 plant species; most observations involved consumption of the fruit of Casearia tremula (Flacourtiaceae). The main threats to Yellow-shouldered Parrots on La Blanquilla are predation and illegal poaching. Survival of the Yellow-shouldered Parrot on La Blanquilla Island is uncertain because of small population size and increasing threat levels.
20456064|We report on the ornithological results of the first rapid biodiversity survey in the BX-044 polygon, one of the largest open vegetation enclaves in southern Amazonia, in the Brazilian states of Amazonas and Rondnia. Three-hundred and thirty species were recorded in all habitats surveyed, including closed (terrafirme, riparian, gallery, and campinarana forests) and open (cerrado and grassland) vegetation types. Over 90% (298) of all species were not shared between closed and open habitat types emphasizing the importance of interhabitat diversity to the overall species richness recorded. Significant range extensions were documented for 34 species (30 of which were associated with the cerrado biome). Open vegetation enclaves contribute significantly to local avian species richness in Amazonia in addition to supporting species with special relevance to conservation with ranges centered in the cerrado, currently one of the most threatened biomes of South America. Conservation of Amazonian cerrado enclaves offers the unique opportunity to combine preservation of areas with high inter-habitat diversity with establishment of a complementary network of conservation units directed at preserving the cerrado biome throughout South America. Urgent steps must be taken to protect Amazonian open vegetation enclaves, which are still conspicuously under represented in the network of Brazilian conservation units, despite the fairly recent expansion of agriculture into these areas.
20456065|Effects of scale on relationships between organisms and their environment are of considerable contemporary interest. We evaluated Breeding Bird Survey data and landscape measures derived from aerial photographs to examine how relationships changed over a continuous range of 16 spatial scales. Analyses incorporated 1985-1994 data (average number of birds/stop/yr) for eight flycatcher species (Tyrannidae) for each of 50 stops on 198 Breeding Bird Survey transects in the Central Plains. Associations of bird abundances with landscape variables changed gradually with small changes in scale. Edge density had significant associations with abundances of Eastern Phoebes (Sayornis phoebe), Great Crested Flycatchers (Myiarchus crinitus), and Western Kingbirds (Tyrannus verticalis) suggesting this landscape characteristic is important for certain breeding flycatcher species. Fractal dimension and principal component II, the latter reflecting amounts of closed forest versus open country, exhibited the highest correlations with abundances of the greatest number of species. Correlations of abundances and landscape variables were highest at larger spatial scales, 17- to 50-stop segments (i.e., 13.7 and 40.2 km in length, respectively). Evaluating more than 2-3 spatial scales can provide insight into relationships of abundance of a species with potentially influential environmental factors. These analyses allow the data to indicate the most appropriate scale or scales for a particular study, rather than depending entirely on a researcher's subjective perception of what scales are important to a given species.
20456066|Interspersion is a key habitat component related to marsh bird abundance, but is not easily quantified. We used Fragstats 3.3 and aerial photos to measure interspersion within wetlands as m/ha of interface between vegetation and water (i.e., edge density). We then related edge density and other factors (marsh area, cover-to-water ratios, marsh area within 5 km) to the abundance of marsh birds on 16 emergent wetlands in New York during 2005. Abundance was assessed via call broadcast surveys for American Bittern (Botaurus lentiginosus), Least Bittern (Ixobrychus exilis), Pied-billed Grebe (Podilymbus podiceps), Sora (Porzana carolina), and Virginia Rail (Rallus limicola). Interspersion, as measured by edge density, was the best predictor of abundance for all species but Pied-billed Grebe (R = 0.30-0.71). Vegetation and water interspersed in a spatially complex pattern likely increases breeding diversity and density of marsh birds. Modern spatial analysis programs provide opportunities to quantify interspersion without intensive field work or calculations, which can lead to more accurate research and management efforts focused on marsh birds.
20456067|Fire suppression has resulted in a greater density of ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) in grassland and shrub-steppe habitats potentially reducing habitat quality for declining grassland and shrub-steppe birds. Birds were surveyed at 10 shrub-steppe sites in the southern Okanagan Valley of British Columbia to examine whether encroachment of pine affected grassland and shrub-steppe birds. Encounter rates did not differ between years and were combined for a total of 4,281 sightings and 80 species. Sites with more ponderosa pine had a greater diversity of birds. Grassland and shrub-steppe birds as a group declined with increasing numbers of trees. Forest and open woodland birds increased in number as did generalist birds. These results support conservation efforts to reduce conifer densities in shrub-steppe habitats to benefit associated declining bird populations.
20456068|I analyzed the relationship between spring temperature and arrival date for 105 species using over 32,000 arrival records of migratory breeding birds in Maine collected by a volunteer network between 1994 and 2005. I used quantile regression analysis, testing three different quantiles (0.1, 0.25, 0.5). Only 69 of 315 regressions yielded a significant negative relationship. Five species showed significant regressions for all three quantiles and 15 showed significant regressions for two quantiles. Quantile regressions of arrival date with a hemispheric measure of climate variability, the North Atlantic Oscillation index, produced only 63 statistically significant regressions for the three quantiles. Seven species and 12 species had significant regressions with three and two quantiles, respectively. Overall, 60 species had at least one significant relationship with a climatic variable. These results indicate the arrival dates of most migratory breeding birds in Maine show a modest relationship with the significant temperature variability seen over the 12-year study period. The data suggest the response of migratory birds in Maine to global warming impacts will be a gradual process.
20456069|This study presents 11 years of nesting success and phenology data for Black Swifts (Cypseloides niger) at Box Canyon in Ouray, Colorado. Nest data were recorded on a near-daily basis for 160 nest attempts. Nesting success was 72% and mean and extreme dates of nesting events, including arrival, egg-laying, onset of incubation, hatching, and fledging are reported. On average, Black Swifts arrived on 13 June, egg laying started on 28 June, incubation started on 1 July, hatching occurred on 26 July, and fledging occurred on 13 September. The average incubation period was 26 days and the nestling phase was 48 days. In seven instances, a second egg appeared after loss of the first egg and, in one case, a third egg appeared. It was not possible to ascertain whether second or third eggs represented a renesting attempt or nest usurpation.
20456070|The Mariana Swiftlet (Aerodramus bartschi) on Saipan lays a single white egg which is incubated for 22.95 days (range 17-30 days). Newly hatched nestlings are naked and weigh 1.11 g (range 1.0-1.2 g). Nestlings grow slowly, reaching asymptotic weight on day 29 and fledging after 46.8 days (range 40-55 days). Post-asymptotic weight recession is 2% and nestlings fledge at slightly above adult weight of 8.01 g. Wing and tail length are &gt;94% of adult size at fledging. Low clutch size, slow chick growth, and extended nestling period are characteristic of other species of swiftlets and may represent food limitation in these diminutive aerial insectivores.
20456071|We used Mayfield logistic regression and an information-theoretic approach to examine habitat characteristics associated with nesting success of Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) across an urban to forested gradient in southwestern Pennsylvania in 2003 and 2004. Both nest placement and number of understory stems provided equally plausible models. Mayfield success was 20% higher for nests &gt;3 m above ground level while dense understory was associated with low nest height. Wood Thrush nests in the forest interior averaged 2 m higher with a third less understory than edge nests. Urbanization and distance to the forest edge were not useful predictors of Wood Thrush nest success. The analysis was confounded by low breeding density at the most urbanized sites, but we found moderate success (42%, n = 63) across a fragmented landscape with minimal core forest area. Interior nests in a large contiguous forest were twice as successful (60%, n = 31) compared to edge nests (25%, n = 33) adjacent to a small housing development. We do not know the mechanism underlying increased predation of low understory nest sites that we observed. The ability of Wood Thrushes to see and/or effectively attack a predator in the area may be important for nest defense; changes in the predator community associated with forest edges may also explain differences in nest success. The relationship between nest placement, nest defense, and the predator community needs further study.
20456072|We experimentally parasitized nests of the Village Weaver (Ploceus cucullatus) in Hispaniola using real and artificial eggs made from wood and modeling clay. Artificial eggs were similar in size and shape to real weaver eggs and were coated with acrylic paint and glazed. Real eggs were actual weaver eggs taken from Village Weaver nests. Experimental parasitic eggs (1) mimicked natural weaver eggs, (2) differed in color only, (3) differed in spotting only, or (4) mimicked Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis) egg color and spotting pattern. Parasitized nests were checked after 2-6 days. Real eggs were ejected from weaver nests with increasing frequency as they became less similar to the eggs in the nest with cowbirds eggs having the highest rejection (81%). However, for artificial egg types there were no significant within-composition differences in patterns of rejection. Clay eggs were usually ejected from the nests, whereas nests containing wood eggs often ended empty, or with only the artificial egg remaining in the nest. These patterns may reflect the differential ability of weavers to recognize and remove foreign eggs of different compositions from their nests. Researchers undertaking egg-rejection experiments should use real eggs either in addition or in place of artificial eggs to assess the cost of rejection and the coevolutionary relationships between parasite and host.
20456074|Canada Warblers (Wilsonia canadensis) are one of the last warblers to arrive in breeding areas in northern Alberta and one of the first to depart in autumn resulting in a condensed breeding chronology relative to other locally breeding wood warblers. Males arrived before females during spring migration, while in autumn, adult females departed prior to males. Second-year males arrived later (P = 0.029) than after-second year males. Adult males departed later (P = 0.015) than adult females. Hatch-year birds departed after adult females but prior to adult males. Female Canada Warblers remained in breeding areas for 62 days while males remained 72 days. These data provide the shortest documented breeding site occupancy estimate for any bird that shows a post-nuptialmolt. The short time spent in breeding areas may impose energetic constraints that influence breeding, molt, and survival, particularly for females.
20456075|Swainson's Thrushes (Catharus ustulatus) migrate widely throughout North and Middle America. In the Caribbean, the species is known to occur only in the western-most Greater Antilles, and there only as a rare migrant. We captured and visually detected migrant Swainson's Thrushes beginning in 2000 at a banding station on Guana Island, British Virgin Islands. The majority of thrushes captured were adults (79%) and most had no (71%) or little fat (12%) reserves at time of capture; 61% were classified as being in emaciated or poor condition. The poor physiological conditions may have resulted from longer over water flights rather than island hopping.
20456076|Diurnal variations in body mass and visible fat scores were measured for seasonally acclimatized Mountain Chickadees (Poecile gambeli) and Juniper Titmice (Baeolophus ridgwayi) to examine if they undergo winter fattening. Body mass varied with time of day and was highest in evening for both species in summer and winter. Body mass, expressed as percent mass increase from morning to evening, was 7.3% for summer chickadees, 7.6% for summer titmice, 9.1% for winter chickadees, and 6.1% for winter titmice. Body mass was not significantly higher in winter-acclimatized birds compared to summer-acclimatized birds. Visible fat scores were significantly elevated in winter-acclimatized Mountain Chickadees relative to summer. Mountain Chickadees and Juniper Titmice appear to have seasonally constant body mass rather than undergoing winter fattening. These data are similar to other North American species in the family Paridae but contrast with data on European parids.
20456077|We report a massive inland displacement of petrels, particularly female Atlantic Petrels (Pterodroma incerta) in southern Brazil, after Hurricane Catarina, the first ever reported hurricane in the Southe Atlantic Ocean. At least 354 petrels were affected and were found in 26 different locations, up to 420 km from the coast and 1,100 m above sea level. Birds were in heavy molt and near starvation, which probably contributed to their displacement and mortality.
20456078|We report observations of a population of Military Macaws (Ara militaris) within the Tehuacn-Cuicatln Biosphere Reserve in northern Oaxaca, Mexico during 2002-2004. Macaws used a series of barrancas for roosting and nesting, and foraged widely in surrounding areas. Most of the population of 100 individuals could be counted flying to or from the major roosting areas of El Sabino Canyon and Barranca de Las Guacamayas. Reproduction appeared to be restricted to vertical cliffs of El Sabino Canyon. Most movements were associated with seasonal foraging and depended upon availability of fruits.
20456079|We documented the juvenal plumage of the Green-breasted Mountain-gem (Lampornis sybillae) during mist-netting operations in the cloud forest at La Tigra National Park, Honduras from February to April 2006. A recently-fledged juvenile of this species was caught on 17 March and, contrary to previous suggestions, we found the throat and breast were mottled green. Ninety-eight immature mountain-gems intermediate between this juvenal plumage and that of adults were also caught during our study. Both males and females of the Green-breasted Mountain-gem apparently begin replacing juvenal throat feathers soon after fledging and prior to molting flight feathers. A high capture rate of young hummingbirds at the end of the dry season, including recent fledglings and individuals showing only traces of juvenal plumage, suggests a protracted breeding season that we estimate to last at least from November through March. We also caught adults in a variety of stages of flight-feather molt, perhaps part of a transition from breeding; molting in our population is estimated to span at least an 8-month period.
20456080|Georgia land lottery maps from the 1820s reveal two tree species, water oak (Quercus nigra) and sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua), were formerly limited to major floodplains in the Piedmont and Coastal Plain. These species are now common in upland sites as a result of past land use and disruption of fire regimes. We investigated the effect this invasion had on breeding bird diversity in upland mixed pine (Pinus spp.) stands based on 90 point counts conducted in spring 2005. Half of these stands had no water oak or sweetgum (open stands) and half had a minimum of 25% of their basal area as water oak and/or sweetgum (invaded stands). Bird species richness and abundance were 42 and 41% lower, respectively, in invaded stands. Thirty-five bird species had more than 20 records and were tested for an association with invaded stands. No species were positively associated with invaded stands while 10 were negatively associated with invaded stands; these were mostly grassland pine savanna and shrubland bird species of high conservation value. Invasion of upland pine forest by these native tree species is similar to invasion by exotic species, and appears to disrupt ecosystem function causing declines in birds diversity.
20456081|Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura) in southern and south-central Saskatchewan first nested in deserted houses in 1982. This new behavior across the Aspen Parkland and Boreal Transition ecoregions became more common in the mid-1990s as vultures increased and occupied new territory. We documented 126 nestings, which produced 185 young in 74 deserted buildings during 2003-2006. The mean number of young fledged per successful nest (1.7) was similar to that recorded in other parts of its range.
20456082|Vigilance is especially important in colonial socially monogamous birds during the nesting season as nest materials, offspring, and mates are vulnerable to theft, depredation, and extra-pair copulations, respectively. We found that when both members of a mated pair of Yellow-crowned Night-herons (Nyctanassa violacea) were at the nest they faced in opposite directions in 73% of observations, which was significantly more often than would be expected by chance (P &lt; 0.0001,
20456083|Kori Bustards (Ardeotis kori) are polygynous and males display singly or in loose lek formations to females during the breeding season. A new display, head tossing, has been observed on repeated occasions by five different males (all Ardeotis kori struthiunculus) in the Smithsonian National Zoological Park, Dallas Zoo, and San Diego Wild Animal Park. This display has not been reported for A. k. kori or in any other Ardeotis species. Trained behavior watchers recorded detailed observations of a male bustard's booming behavior and frequency in 2004 and 2005; over the 2 years they collected 407 hrs of booming data. Head tossing occurred when the male rapidly threw his head backward onto his back. The head tossing display further exposed the white neck feathers and the motion of head tossing was extremely visible. Head tossing was followed by a cessation of booming or was a transition between additional booming sessions. Head tossing primarily occurred at the end of a six-boom calling bout (90% of the time) and was observed infrequently (less than 2% of all booming bouts). Head tossing appears to occur predominantly during the early phases of the breeding cycle and may function as a territorial marker directed at other males, and potentially provides information about the rank of the displaying male.
20456084|Northern Hawk Owls (Surnia ulula) have been reported to cache prey during the breeding season for later consumption, but detailed reports of prey caching during the non-breeding season are comparatively rare. We provided prey to four individual Northern Hawk Owls in wintering areas in northeastern Minnesota during 2001 and 2005 and observed their caching behavior. These owls cached 93% (n = 14) of prey items presented to them and consumed one item immediately after capture. A number of bird species relocate stored food by remembering the spatial locations of caches. Prominent landmarks (dead trees larger than the surrounding vegetation, sites concealed in the snow next to a utility pole or clump of grass) or sites near them were often selected for caching by Northern Hawk Owls and likely facilitate relocation of stored prey. Prey caching during winter allows exploitation of temporary increases in prey abundance and may aid in survival during times of food shortage or adverse weather.
20456085|We report observations of Willets (Catoptrophorus semipalmatus) using White Ibis (Eudocimus albus) as "beaters" to disturb prey and kleptoparasitizing (stealing) prey from them. Our observations occurred at J. N. "Ding" Darling National Wildlife Refuge on Sanibel Island, Florida on 8 December 2004. We observed these behaviors in four White Ibis-Willet pairs and describe one instance in detail and document it with photographs. To our knowledge this is the first documentation of a Willet using other birds as beaters and the first case of Willets stealing from White Ibis, although many records exist of Willets stealing from other shorebirds. We believe the use of beaters by Willets may be an under-reported foraging behavior.
20456086|We report a Gray Catbird (Dumetella carolinensis) reusing a Northern Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) nest in the same breeding season. The Northern Cardinal nest failed during incubation on 19 June 2006, but the Gray Catbird nest was successful, fledging three young on 31 July 2006. Nest site availability does not appear to be the reason for reuse of the nest. Time constraints late in the breeding season may result in use of old nests.
20456087|We report predation by an American Crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos) of a bat in flight. We observed an aerial attack of a little brown bat (Myotis lucifugus) by a crow, followed by consumption of the prey item. American Crows are reported to have a wide variety of foraging strategies and food items; consumption of bats, in general, has not been reported among them.
20456088|I report the first mid-winter specimen of a Flammulated Owl (Otus flammeolus) from within the USA breeding range of the species, an adult male found freshly dead on 2 January 1996 at Santa Fe, New Mexico following the season's first snow-storm. This event, plus an additional specimen found dead in late autumn within the New Mexico breeding range, supports the argument this species appears unable to successfully overwinter in its USA breeding range.
20456100|We encountered white-eyes (Zosterops) that did not match any known species during ornithological field observations in the Togian Islands, Gulf of Tomini, Sulawesi, Indonesia. Subsequently, we collected a specimen and made tape recordings. We consider the Zosterops of the Togian Islands to be a new species that differs most strikingly from the Black-crowned White-eye (Z. atrifrons) in lacking a white eye ring and in soft-part colors. The new species has a somewhat higher-pitched, less modulated song than Z. atrifrons. It seems uncommon and has been encountered only near sea level on three small islands, and it may be best considered Endangered. This brings the number of endemic species in the Togian Islands to two and, under BirdLife International criteria, this island group (which has recently been declared a National Park) now qualifies as an Endemic Bird Area.
20456101|New information on vocalizations of populations of the White-eyed Foliage-gleaner (Automolus leucophthalmus), and analysis of biometric and plumage characters, reveal that it consists of two biological species. One form is restricted to the Pernambuco Center of Endemism in coastal northeastern Brazil and the second occupies much of the remainder of humid Atlantic Forest from Bahia, Brazil south to northeastern Argentina and eastern Paraguay. The northeastern form, although cryptically similar morphologically to other subspecies of Automolus leucophthalmus, is highly differentiated in several vocal characters. The vocal difference between the two groups exceeds that between other accepted species pairs within the genus. Reciprocal tape-playback experiments offer supporting evidence that vocal differences within the White-eyed Foliage-gleaner complex are sufficient to act as isolating mechanisms in the event of secondary contact between the two groups. The northeastern form is shown to have vocal and morphological similarities to the Para Foliage-gleaner (Automolus paraensis) of southeastern Amazonian Brazil, supporting hypothesized Amazonian origins of the leucophthalmus complex, as well as a sister relationship with the Automolus infuscatus/paraensis complex.
20456102|Tropical birds offer unique opportunities to test ecological and evolutionary theory because their life history traits are so diverse and different from temperate zone models upon which most empirical studies are based. We review recent studies on the behavioral ecology of tropical birds, studies that explore new advances in this field. Life histories and their evolution remain the focus of research on tropical birds. Clutch size manipulations in two species showed that food limitation does not explain small clutch size. In antbirds, enlarged clutches decreased post-fledging survival whereas in thrushes, enlarged broods were costly due to high nest predation. Small clutches may be favored via different ultimate selective forces and shared underlying tradeoffs between the immune, metabolic, and endocrine systems in the body may account for the commonly observed 'slow pace of life' in tropical birds. The physiological tradeoff between testosterone and immunocompetence may explain the evolution of low testosterone levels in tropical passerines where adult survival is paramount. In contrast to life history theory, few studies have explored temperate-tropical differences in territoriality, mating systems, and song function. The idea that low breeding synchrony in tropical birds is associated with low levels of extra-pair fertilizations was supported by several new paternity studies conducted on tropical passerines. Seasonally breeding tropical birds have higher testosterone levels than tropical birds with prolonged breeding seasons, although it is unclear if this pattern is driven by mating systems per se or selection from pathogens. Recent work on relations between pair members in permanently paired tropical passerines focuses on the question of mate defense versus territorial defense and the extent of cooperation versus selfish interests in inter-sexual relations.
20456103|The Rufous Twistwing (Cnipodectes superrufus), a newly described Amazonian tyrant-flycatcher, is known from five specimens and five localities in Cuzco and western Madre de Dios departments, Peru. We report three additional specimens and eight new localities extending the known range of the species east across Dpto. Madre de Dios, Peru, into Dpto. Pando, Bolivia, and Acre State, Brazil. The new localities increase the distribution from 3,400 to 89,000 km. We collected biometric data from five individuals, made behavioral observations in the field, and recorded three separate types of vocalizations, two of which (including the song) were previously unknown. We provide quantitative description of these vocalizations, consider their function, and compare them with vocalizations of the only known congener, the Brownish Twistwing (Cnipodectes subbrunneus). Unique vocal repertoires support the classification of these two forms as sister species. The Rufous Twistwing resembles the Brownish Twistwing in producing loud vocalizations from regular song posts and both species appear to have a polygamous mating system. We provide further evidence consistent with the hypothesis the Rufous Twistwing is a Guadua bamboo specialist and recommend that it be listed as Vulnerable on the IUCN Red List.
20456104|The Aldabra Rail (Dryolimnas [cuvieri] aldabranus) is endemic to Aldabra Atoll, Seychelles and is the last remaining flightless bird in the tropical western Indian Ocean. We studied it over two breeding seasons from 1999 to 2001. Pairs formed strong bonds, defended territories year-round, and were mate and territory faithful across seasons. Reproductive duties are shared by males and females. Breeding was closely tied to the rainy season and pairs responded to favorable conditions by increasing clutch size and clutch frequency. Clutches contained 1-4 eggs and replacement clutches were laid if nests failed early in the season. The incubation period was 19-24 days and hatching was usually synchronous. Mayfield estimates of daily survival of eggs and nesting success were 98.8% and 77.0%, respectively. Hatching success was 60.9% and 57% of chicks that hatched were successfully reared to independence. Chicks are sub-precocial and fledged chicks were cared for in the natal territory for at least 2 months, after which they were forcibly evicted. A large repertoire of behaviors and ritualized displays are described including pseudo-copulation and reverse mounting.
20456105|We used radio telemetry to study post-fledging dispersal patterns of juvenile Swainson's Thrushes (Catharus ustulatus) in central coastal California from 2000 to 2002. We followed 30 different broods during the dependent period and 35 juveniles after independence. Adults with dependent juveniles had two types of movements, drifting and stationary, similar to those described for Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina). All juveniles established at least one post-fledging dispersal area (n = 29) after independence and most (62%) established a second; therefore, most home ranges were comprised of disjunct dispersal areas. Median home range (95% fixed-kernel) and core (50% fixed-kernel) areas were 2.0 ha (range = 0.2-9.0) and 0.41 ha (range = 0.05-1.6), respectively. Juveniles spent from 3 to 39 days in different post-fledging dispersal areas; they generally had a primary dispersal area where they spent the majority of their time. Juveniles spent an average of 22.7  1.5 days in primary and 9.6  0.9 days in secondary dispersal areas. The median post-fledging dispersal distance was 147 m (range = 28-1,040 m) for initial dispersal from a brood-rearing area and 418 m (range = 154-2,624 m) for subsequent dispersal movements. Initial dispersal was not directed; however, final dispersal (brood-rearing area to final location) was directed to the northwest for all plots combined and west for one plot. We suggest that post-fledging movements and spatial habitat-use patterns are affected by adult breeding strategies, and by spatially and temporally clumped resources.
20456106|Stopover behavior and migratory pathways of neotropical migrant birds in Central and South America have received little study. We examined stopover ecology of Swainson's Thrush (Catharus ustulatus) on the Osa Peninsula, Costa Rica, during spring migration, 2002-2005. Capture rates per net hour were high (x = 21.8 individuals/100 net hrs) suggesting large numbers pass through lowland coastal areas in spring. Mean passage date of males was 6 days earlier than females. Timing of passage by age class was variable; after-second year (ASY) birds preceded second-year (SY) birds in 2 years, SYs preceded ASYs in 1 year, and both had the same mean passage date in 1 year. We also observed annual variation in relative abundance of the two age groups. Only 1.7% of marked Swainson's Thrushes were recaptured on subsequent days suggesting most individuals left the immediate area soon after initial capture. Stopover lengths ranged from 1 to 9 days, although most were &lt;4 days. Many individuals had some energy stores on arrival (fat score  1) but reserves varied between years and tended to be lower in SYs compared to ASYs. Regression of body mass against time of day indicated that individuals tended to gain mass throughout the morning (0.67% of lean body mass/hr on average). Our findings for stopover lengths, rates of mass gain, and recapture rates are within the range observed at North American stopover sites in spring. However, our capture rates were relatively higher, perhaps because the small land mass of southern Central America concentrates individuals at stopover sites in these regions.
20456107|We quantified demographic parameters of Eastern Yellow Wagtails (Motacilla tschutschensis) breeding at Cape Romanzof, Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge, Alaska. We monitored 79 nests in an 837-ha area during 1997-1999 and banded 160 individuals. Mayfield nest success differed among years and ranged from 0.14 to 0.63/year. Most nest failures were attributed to predation. Annual fecundity (mean number of fledglings/female) ranged from 0.7 to 3.7. At least 8.8% of nests had polygynous males; females paired with polygynous males had the same fecundity as monogamous females. Forty-two to 100% of the breeding males returned the following year, usually to the same territory while no adult females returned. Four nestlings banded in the study area returned to nest the following year. The best model for annual survival accounted for differences between both age groups and years. The demography of Eastern Yellow Wagtails at Cape Romanzof varied and was characterized by relatively high adult male survival and site fidelity, female-biased dispersal, and weak natal philopatry. The absence of returning females is significant and possible differences in migration stopovers and wintering locations should be investigated. Moderate levels of male immigration may be necessary in periodic pulses to maintain a local population, but female immigration would need to be massive and sustained.
20456108|We studied the breeding ecology of the Narcissus Flycatcher (Ficedula narcissina elisae) in subalpine secondary broad-leaf forest near Beijing, China during 2003-2006. The Narcissus Flycatcher arrived in the breeding area at the beginning of May with first-spring males arriving later than older males. Nests of first-spring male Narcissus Flycatchers were at lower altitudes (1,271.0  20.7 m) than those of older males (1,363.8  22.5 m). Narcissus Flycatchers nested in diverse sites on different plant species with Betula dahurica being most commonly used. Nests of Narcissus Flycatchers were exposed and 2.5  0.3 m above the ground with mean clutch size of 4.3  0.2. Mean egg length was 17.2  0.1 mm, mean egg width was 13.2  0.1 mm. and mean egg mass was 1.5  0.0 g. The mean incubation period was 13.4  0.2 days and mean nestling period was 13.2  0.2 days. Fledging success was 4.0  0.3 fledglings per successful nest. The Narcissus Flycatcher had low breeding success (51.2%), mainly because of predation.
20456109|We investigated the impacts of urbanization on reproductive success of House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon). We compared reproductive effort and success for 33 nesting attempts in suburban sites (2.5-10 buildings/ha) and 43 nesting attempts in rural sites (&lt;2.5 buildings/ha) in and around the Washington, D.C.-Baltimore, Maryland, metropolitan area. There were no differences in clutch initiation dates or clutch sizes between suburban and rural nests. However, nestlings at suburban nests weighed less and had smaller body size prior to fledging compared to nestlings at rural nests. Parental feeding rates differed between suburban and rural nests during the "early nestling stage" (day 3 to day 6), but not in the "late nestling stage" (day 8 to day 12) suggesting average quality of prey for nestlings may be lower at suburban sites. Overall, suburban nests fledged more young than rural nests largely because of higher rates of nest predation on rural nests. Further research on how food availability and predation affects nesting success of House Wrens and other birds along urbanization gradients may provide important insights into impacts of urbanization on birds.
20456110|We studied the breeding habitat of Cerulean Warblers (Dendroica cerulea) in southern Indiana in the Ohio River Valley in 2002-2003 to identify similarities and differences in habitat characteristics compared to breeding habitats reported for this species in other geographical regions. Ten 259-ha study plots were surveyed for Cerulean Warblers and territories were mapped using locations of perched, singing males. We measured slope and vegetation characteristics including canopy height and cover, ground cover, number of shrubs and shrub species, number of trees, DBH, and number of snags at Cerulean Warbler territories and non-use sites. Habitat characteristics associated with Cerulean Warbler territories compared to non-use sites were higher canopy height (28 m) and cover (84%), larger trees (&gt;38 cm DBH), higher slope (11), fewer number of trees (30), and fewer trees between 3 and 23 cm DBH. Calculated Mayfield estimate of nest productivity (0.165) was lower compared to Mississippi Alluvial Valley sites (0.242).
20456111|Grassland birds have experienced greater population declines than any other group of birds monitored by the North American Breeding Bird Survey. Our goal was to compare demographic rates among years within species and among species of grassland birds. Eight-hundred and eleven nests of Henslow's Sparrows (Ammodramus henslowii), Grasshopper Sparrows (A. savannarum), Field Sparrows (Spizella pusilla), Dickcissels (Spiza americana), and Eastern Meadowlarks (Sturnella magna) were monitored between 1999 and 2003. Mayfield nest success including the egg-laying stage, as well as the incubation and nestling periods, was 20, 34, 15, 20, and 18%, respectively. Most nest failures were attributed to predation. Nest parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) was infrequent (&lt;2% of all nests parasitized). Clutch size decreased during the nesting season for Dickcissels, Grasshopper Sparrows, and Field Sparrows. Nesting phenology suggests the possibility of multiple-brooding for all five species in this study.
20456112|We describe post-fledging movements and evaluate the effects of local vegetation, temporal, and biological factors on home range size for two species of declining grassland birds in southwestern Missouri from 2002 to 2004. We obtained 30 detections for 74 individual juvenile Dickcissels (Spiza americana) and 64 juvenile Eastern Meadowlarks (Sturnella magna) during the post-fledging period. Juvenile Eastern Meadowlarks had a greater total number of days (6.7  0.6) with large (&gt;300 m) movements than juvenile Dickcissels (5.0  0.5 days). Average Dickcissel home range size was larger and three times as variable in 2002 (77.0  22 ha) compared to 2003 (31.4  7.5 ha) and 2004 (34.9  7.5 ha). There were year-specific effects of the variability in vegetation height on home range size of juvenile Dickcissels. Home range size was similar among years for juvenile Eastern Meadowlarks (2002, 109.4  39.2 ha; 2003, 82.7  29.4 ha; 2004, 70.7  11.6 ha), but there was a year-specific effect of variability in grass cover on home range size of juvenile Eastern Meadowlarks. Local vegetation conditions are important factors affecting home range size and movements during the post-fledging period.
20456113|We compared abundance, daily survival rate, nest site characteristics, food availability, nest activity, and nestling size of Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hymenalis) between burned and unburned mechanically-thinned ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forest units. Dark-eyed Junco territory density, number of detections in point counts, and daily nest survival were similar between treatments. Average bare ground was 4.8 times higher and litter cover was 2.6 times lower at nest sites in burned units compared to unburned nest sites. However, there was 28% less burned area around nests compared to random points in burned units, indicating that juncos placed nests in unburned portions of burned units. They also selected non-traditional nesting sites in burned units such as root holes and in trees. Arthropod abundance was higher in burned units 1-year post burn although numbers were similar in the second-year post burn. Nest attentiveness and feeding rates were three times higher in burned units, possibly in response to increased food availability. The potentially negative effect of prescribed burning through reduction of litter and increase in bare ground was offset by novel nesting strategies and increased food availability.
20456114|There are increasing conservation concerns associated with boreal regions, but little is known about winter habitat requirements of bird species inhabiting them. We examined flock size, winter habitat preference, and home range size of Boreal Chickadees (Poecile hudsonica) in a boreal forest harvested for timber near Quebec City, Quebec, Canada. We investigated whether and to what extent home range size was affected by clearcuts and regeneration forest stands. Flocks included an average of four individuals and occupied a mean winter home range of 14.7 ha. Flock membership and size were stable during the winter. Boreal Chickadees strongly preferred mature stands of commercial value (&gt;7 m in height) and used regenerating stands (4-7 m in height) to a lesser extent. Younger stands (&lt;4 m in height) and open areas were avoided. Home range size was not associated with landscape composition, but flocks with larger home ranges used them less evenly than those with smaller home ranges. This resident species prefers stands of commercial value and logging may contribute to apparent population declines of Boreal Chickadees.
20456115|We studied the possible long-term (1987 vs. 2003-2004) effects of wastewater irrigation of forests to habitat and a songbird community in central Pennsylvania. The study site, Toftrees, is a wastewater-irrigated deciduous forest interspersed with agriculture grasslands and crop fields that receives 260 cm of wastewater annually. Habitat variables were quantified within 15 random 0.04-ha circular plots in 2003 and 20 random plots in 1987. We conducted bird surveys twice weekly during 2003 and mist-netted birds for 1,250 hrs during 2004. Surveys and mist-netting efforts paralleled those conducted in 1987. A major decline in density of understory trees and short shrubs was noted between 1987 and 2003; in contrast, cover of herbaceous vegetation and density of tall shrubs dramatically increased. Ground-shrub foraging bird species and two mid-canopy foragers, Red-eyed Vireo (Vireo olivaceus) and Eastern Wood-Pewee (Contopus virens), declined from 1987 to 2003-2004. Conversely, Gray Catbirds (Dumetella carolinensis) increased dramatically over this time period.
20456116|Breeding bird populations were sampled between 1954 and 1963, and 1990 and 2000 in an old-growth forest, the Natural Area of Huntington Wildlife Forest (HWF), in the Adirondack Mountains of New York. Trends were compared with data from regional North American Breeding Bird Surveys (BBS) and from a forest plot at Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest, New Hampshire. Trends for 22 species in the HWF Natural Area were negative, eight were positive, and one was zero; 20 were significant. Fifteen of 17 long-distance migrants declined, whereas 7 of 14 short-distance migrants and permanent residents declined. Most (74%) HWF Natural Area species, despite differences in sampling periods and local habitat features, matched in sign of trend when compared to Adirondack BBS routes, 61% matched northeastern BBS routes, and 71% matched eastern United States BBS routes, while 66% matched Hubbard Brook species. The agreement in population trends suggests that forest interior birds, especially long-distance migrants, are affected more by regional than local factors. The analysis indicated that bird trends generated from BBS routes may not be as biased toward roads as previously suggested.
20456117|We investigated patterns of mortality during post-breeding migrations of California Gulls (Larus californicus) nesting near Laramie, Wyoming, USA. We used 151 recoveries and 647 sightings of banded and patagially-marked gulls to compare ratios of mortalities to observations of live birds (1) during four time periods (early and late fall migration, winter, and spring migration), (2) at two locations (Pacific coast and inland), and (3) among three age-classes of gulls (fledglings, 1- and 2-year-olds, and breeding-age adults). Mortality rates were higher in inland areas (35%) than in coastal areas (15%) and were dependent on season within inland areas, but not in coastal areas. Mortality in inland areas during early fall (21%) was comparable with that in coastal areas (13%) but was higher during late fall (68 vs. 13%) and spring migration (46 vs. 17%). Both fledgling (71%) and adult (64%) gulls experienced high mortality rates during late fall migration, possibly because some gulls were too weak to make their way to the Pacific coast and became trapped by poor weather conditions. Adult gulls also experienced high mortality inland during spring migration; few subadults made the costly migration to and from the breeding area. Some adults also skipped breeding and remained in coastal areas during the breeding season.
20456118|We placed predator exclosures around 31 Black Tern (Chlidonias niger) nests in Maine in 2001-2002 to measure growth and survival of chicks. Fifty-four percent of exclosed nests that hatched young were depredated in 2001 and four exclosed nests were abandoned prior to hatch. We modified our exclosure design in 2002 and only one nest (7%) was depredated and no nests were abandoned prior to hatch. Kaplan-Meier estimates of chick survival in the absence of predation were 0.87 to 18 days in 2001 and 0.90 to 15 days in 2002. Mass ratios among first, second, and third-hatched chicks indicated that size hierarchies were present in broods near time of brood completion, but linear growth rates and asymptotic mass were not affected by hatch order in 2- or 3-chick broods. Predation was the primary determinant of chick survival in Black Tern colonies studied and food availability was not limiting chick growth. Predator exclosures did not prevent all depredation, but our exclosure design was effective at protecting and retaining chicks until fledgling age at 70% of nests; the majority of adults readily accepted predator exclosures.
20456119|Geophagy has been documented in many species of birds, including many parrots, and its proposed functions include detoxification of dietary poisons, mineral supplementation, and acid buffering. Most geophagy reports involve tropical South American species; we present the first published report of clay-lick use by the Maroon-fronted Parrot (Rhynchopsitta terrisi), a species inhabiting high elevation temperate pine-oak (Pinus spp.-Quercus spp.) forest of the Sierra Madre Oriental. Thirty-six observation sessions were made at the four dispersed licks known from the restricted breeding range of this species. All known licks were near valley bottoms far below most nesting cliffs. Parrot visitations to ingest clay were characteristically in groups and the average number of parrots per group was nine individuals. Group visits averaged 18.3 min in duration and peaked between 0900 and 1100 hrs. The total number of parrots visiting licks during any day represented only a fraction of the known population of the species, suggesting that unless additional licks have yet to be discovered, visits of individuals to licks are relatively infrequent.
20456120|I examined cavity number and use by other species as correlates of Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) group size at Camp Blanding Training Site (CBTS) and Goethe State Forest (GSF), Florida. Group size was positively correlated with cavity number at CBTS but not at GSF. Other species occupied 1.75 (34%) and 1.19 (27%) cavities/territory at CBTS and GSF, respectively. Statistically controlling for use by other species yielded significant positive correlations between group size and cavity number in 4 of 5 years at CBTS and 2 of 4 years at GSF. Correlations between group size and total use by other species, controlling cavity number, were significantly negative at both sites. Separating total use by species, group size was negatively correlated only with southern flying squirrels (Glaucomys volans) at CBTS and only with Red-bellied Woodpeckers (Melanerpes carolinus) at GSF, as flying squirrels occupied &gt;3 times more cavities/territory at CBTS than at GSF (0.87 vs. 0.28) while Red-bellied Woodpeckers occupied 0.75 cavities/territory at both sites. Flying squirrels may obscure the relationship between the two woodpecker species by limiting their cavity use.
20456121|We present the first nest descriptions for two Hispaniolan endemic songbirds, the Western Chat-tanager (Calyptophilus tertius) and Hispaniolan Highland-tanager (Xenoligea montana) from a montane broadleaf forest site in the Sierra de Bahoruco of the Dominican Republic. Single Western Chat-tanager nests were found on 17 May 2002 and 9 June 2004. Both were coarsely-built, partially-domed, bulky structures 1.0-1.5 m above ground. One nest was freshly-depredated when found, whereas the second contained two eggs which hatched on 19 and 20 June. The nestlings were depredated on 25 June. A Hispaniolan Highland-tanager nest found on 27 June 2004 fledged a single chick the following day. This nest, in a vine tangle 2.5 m above ground, was an open cup structure composed of moss, small herbaceous stems, leaf fragments, lichens, and other plant fibers. We describe the eggs of both species, the nestlings of Western Chat-tanager, and the juvenal plumage of Hispaniolan Highland-tanager. We believe that depredation by introduced feral cats (Felis domesticus) and rats (Rattus spp.) is a serious problem in these montane forests.
20456122|The 'Akikiki or Kaua'i Creeper (Oreomystis bairdi) is a rare, little-known Hawaiian honeycreeper endemic to the island of Kaua'i. Its range is contracting, the population is declining, and it is a candidate for listing under the U.S. Endangered Species Act. We report an instance of foraging by excavation observed on 22 May 2006, a behavior previously un-known in this species, and on parental behavior at two nests observed on 24 May 2006 and 27 May 2007, about which there is little previous information. Both parents brought food to the nest, the male provided food for the female, and the female also foraged independently. The nesting pair in 2007 had a juvenile from a previous nest, indicating the 'Akikiki will attempt to raise two broods. These observations are of limited extent, but even small facts can contribute to our understanding of the biology of the 'Akikiki and causes of its decline.
20456123|I observed a pair of Olive-backed Euphonias (Euphonia gouldi) in the Caribbean lowlands of Costa Rica singing a prolonged antiphonal duet on 28 February 2006. The male and female were perched near one another within a larger conspecific flock, and exchanged closely-coordinated notes in phrases lasting 5 sec. This appears to be the first report of duetting behavior for this species or for any member of family Fringillidae.
20456124|The Reddish Hermit (Phaethornis ruber) is a commonly encountered hummingbird, within the understory of tropical forests from Venezuela to south-east Brazil. Reddish Hermits, like many hummingbirds, perform elaborate displays associated with mate and territory acquisition. We provide the first detailed description with supporting illustrations of intricate displays between two male P. ruber to which we refer as "Rotation" and "Arc" displays.
20456125|The Banded Ground-cuckoo (Neomorphus radiolosus) is a rare, endangered, and poorly known species endemic to the Choc Biogeographic Zone. We summarize 7 months of data from radio tracking an adult in northwestern Ecuador. Home range estimates were 42.2 ha (minimum convex polygon) and 49.9 ha (95% kernel analysis); the core area was 3.4 ha (50% kernel analysis). The bird favored undisturbed habitat and avoided secondary forest. It was primarily insectivorous and rarely associated with army ants (Eciton sp.) and not with mammals. Breeding occurred from March through June and the marked bird was seen with an unmarked individual throughout the study. The Banded Ground-cuckoo has a large home range, limited dispersal ability, and apparently depends on undisturbed forest. Deforestation and habitat fragmentation appear to be the gravest threats facing the species.
20456126|American Robins (Turdus migratorius) depend on fruit in fall and winter and, accordingly, juvenile robins must quickly learn to acquire this resource. We compared the foraging abilities of juveniles and adults foraging for mulberries (Morus spp.), the first fruit that ripens after juveniles have become independent. Juveniles were significantly less successful than adults at obtaining mulberries; 23% of juveniles' attempts to remove fruit were successful compared to 69% of attempts by adults to remove fruit. As a result, juveniles consumed 0.4 mulberries/min whereas adults consumed 2.8 mulberries/min. Further investigations of juveniles' ability to forage for fruit are needed to understand the mechanisms involved in the development of skills to forage for this vital resource.
20456127|We report new food items for six species of Costa Rican birds. This report includes the first egg predation observed for Hoffman's Woodpecker (Melanerpes hoffmannii), the first vertebrate recorded in the diet of Sooty Thrush (Turdus nigrescens), and records for Groove-billed Ani (Crotophaga sulcirostris), Black-and-white Owl (Strix nigrolineata), Blue-crowned Motmot (Momotus momota), and Clay-colored Thrush (Turdus grayi).
20456128|We observed Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) wedging longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) seeds into crevices in tree bark in Polk County, Florida from October to December 2004. Five individuals, four uniquely color-banded and one unidentified individual, wedged 14 seeds. Initially, we thought the birds were caching the seeds. Additional observations indicated the seeds were being wedged under the ends of the flaking bark of longleaf pines so seeds could be held firm and opened for consumption. Anvil use, where items are wedged for subsequent manipulation, is known to occur in several avian taxa, but most notably in Piciformes, Corvidae, Passerida, and Sittidae. At least 16 woodpeckers worldwide have been reported using anvils. This is the first report of Red-cockaded Woodpeckers using longleaf pine bark as an anvil to facilitate extracting the seed.
20456129|Correct gender identification in monomorphic species is often difficult especially if males and females do not display obvious behavioral and breeding differences. We compared gender specific morphology and behavior with recently developed DNA techniques for gender identification in the monomorphic Grasshopper Sparrow (Ammodramus savannarum). Gender was ascertained with DNA in 213 individuals using the 2550F/2718R primer set and 3% agarose gel electrophoresis. Field observations using behavior and breeding characteristics to identify gender matched DNA analyses with 100% accuracy for adult males and females. Gender was identified with DNA for all captured juveniles that did not display gender specific traits or behaviors in the field. The molecular techniques used offered a high level of accuracy and may be useful in studies of dispersal mechanisms and winter assemblage composition in monomorphic species.
20456130|We studied the reproductive ecology of Rio Grande Wild Turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo intermedia) in the Edwards Plateau region, Texas during 2005 and 2006. Runt eggs from a single adult female were observed through three nesting events over 2 years. Mean mass and volume for the runt eggs were 44% of normal Wild Turkey eggs. Production of runt eggs is common in domesticated gallinaceous birds, yet little information is available on runt egg production in wild gallinaceous birds. To our knowledge, our observations are the first which indicate runt egg production occurs in Wild Turkeys.
20456131|We describe three successful predation events by the Barred Forest Falcon (Micrastur ruficollis) in the Atlantic Forest of coastal southeast Brazil. The prey items were a Plumbeous Pigeon (Patagioenas plumbea), a Brown Tinamou (Crypturellus obsoletus), and a large toad (Chaunus ictericus). This is the first report of successful attacks on prey heavier than the forest falcon, of which none was successfully carried away. These large prey items represent a tradeoff between high nutrient value and safety of carrying prey to a secure perch.
20456140|We examined factors hypothesized to influence Ruffed Grouse (Bonasa umbellus) population cycles by evaluating 13 a priori models that represented correlations between spring counts of male Ruffed Grouse drumming displays and these factors. We used
20456141|Many species of trogons (Trogoniformes: Trogonidae) gather in mixed-gender calling assemblages during the breeding season. These assemblages have been compared to leks and are usually assumed to function in mate choice; however, no field data exist to support this hypothesis. I present five non-mutually exclusive hypotheses for the function of mixed-gender calling assemblages and test the predictions using field data from Black-headed Trogons (Trogon melanocephalus) in a lowland dry forest in Costa Rica. Adult trogons gathered in mobile assemblages of 3-12 individuals that called frequently and chased one another from perch to perch while moving through the forest. Groups formed at sunrise throughout all stages of the breeding cycle and were not significantly male-biased. Both breeding and non-breeding individuals participated in assemblages, and copulations were not observed in assemblages. Prey capture rates of individuals foraging in groups did not differ from those foraging alone. Males called and chased other individuals more often than did females; however, males chased females and other males at equal rates. Assemblages of trogons frequently prospected (investigated potential nest sites and active nests of conspecifics). These data suggest that communal assemblages of calling trogons do not function solely in social mate choice, nor do they enhance foraging efficiency. They may have a role in maintenance of territorial boundaries and selection of future nest sites.
20456142|I examined song variation within and among 23 individual Buff-breasted Flycatchers (Empidonax fulvifrons) recorded in the Chiricahua and Huachuca mountains of Arizona in 1999. I recorded two distinct song types from each individual during intense pre-dawn singing. I used both spectrographic cross correlation (SPCC) of entire songs and discriminant function analysis (DFA) of temporal and frequency measurements to examine whether songs were individually distinctive, and whether songs differed between the two localities. Similarity values of pairs of songs from SPCC were significantly greater for within-male than for between-male comparisons for both song types. Mean similarity values for the two song types did not overlap between these comparison categories. Similarity values between songs of pairs of males from the same mountain range were not greater than for comparisons between pairs of males from different ranges. All temporal and frequency measures for both song types varied significantly more among than within individuals. DFA of principal component scores derived from these measures assigned 85% of Type 1 and 86% of Type 2 songs to the correct individual. Only three frequency variables measured from Type 1 songs differed significantly between birds from the two mountain ranges. DFA assigned only 61% of songs of either type to the correct mountain range, not significantly greater than expected by chance. Thus, both techniques demonstrate significant individual distinctiveness in songs of this species, and neither suggests any geographic structuring of song variation between the two mountain ranges. However, SPCC is considerably more efficient and has greater potential to assign unknown recordings to known individuals correctly, and to detect recordings of "new" individuals not included in the reference sample.
20456143|We investigated the phylogenetic relationship and differences in the song structure between the Philippine Bush Warbler (Cettia seebohmi) and the Japanese Bush Warbler (C. diphone). We compared complete sequences of the mitochondrial cyt-b gene of C. seebohmi to those of other Cettia taxa from GenBank and found C. seebohmi formed a monophyletic group with C. haddeni and C. diphone. The phylogenetic tree also suggests that C. seebohmi is more closely related to C. haddeni than to C. diphone although this was not strongly supported due to the low bootstrap values. The estimated nucleotide differences between C. seebohmi and C. haddeni (4.37%), and between C. seebohmi and C. diphone (3.87-4.37%) were larger than the intersubspecific difference between C. diphone borealis and C. d. cantans (2.44%). Cettia seebohmi, C. haddeni, and C. diphone diverged prior to the subspecies divergences of C. diphone. The basic structure of songs was similar in C. seebohmi and C. diphone; all songs consisted of pure monotone whistles followed by variably modulated warbles. However, sonagraphic parameters showed statistically significant differences between species. It is reasonable to regard C. seebohmi and C. diphone as separate species.
20456144|The southeastern Yucatan Peninsula hosts high numbers of transient Nearctic-Neotropic migrants during autumn migration, but the importance of this region during migratory stopover has not been addressed. We studied autumn stopover body mass gains among passerine migrants in tropical lowland forest 20 km inland from the Gulf of Honduras. Most individuals captured had some subcutaneous fat. Ten of 15 taxa with sufficient sample sizes had significant positive diel (24 hr) gains in a body condition index. Estimates of net mass gains in these 10 taxa suggested they all were depositing fat; average individuals in four of these taxa were depositing sufficient fuel to undertake an entire night of migration after only 1 day of fattening: Empidonax spp., Red-eyed Vireo (Vireo olivaceus), Gray Catbird (Dumetella carolinensis), and Northern Waterthrush (Seiurus noveboracensis). Two (Wood Thrush [Hylocichla mustelina] and Common Yellowthroat [Geothlypis trichas]) of the four species apparently not gaining mass at the study site migrate late in the season and occurred only after Hurricane Iris severely altered the habitat. Four other species (Gray Catbird, Magnolia Warbler [Dendroica magnolia], American Redstart [Setophaga ruticilla], and Indigo Bunting [Passerina cyanea]) had significant gains in mass after the hurricane. These data demonstrate the importance of the region as an autumn stopover site for some species and suggest that stopover areas farther north are also important to migrants passing through the southeastern part of the Yucatan Peninsula.
20456145|Migratory birds were surveyed at stopover sites in New Orleans, Louisiana, during seven spring and fall seasons in relation to weather conditions. Weather was classified into four synoptic scenarios distinguished primarily by positions of fronts, wind directions, and pressure characteristics. Overall numbers of migrants in spring were more numerous during the synoptic scenarios in which a cold front was about to arrive (Frontal Gulf Return) or had already passed (Post Frontal), than when airflow was off the Gulf or from the east (Coastal Return, which often preceded frontal passage). Counts of White-eyed (Vireo griseus) and Red-eyed vireos (V. olivaceus), Indigo Buntings (Passerina cyanea), and thrushes (Hylocichla and Catharus combined) showed differences among weather scenarios, mostly with high counts under Post Frontal conditions and/or low counts under Coastal Return. Post Frontal values were higher in fall than Coastal Return for overall migrants, Common Yellowthroats (Geothlypis trichas), and Indigo Buntings. However, four individual species failed to show any variation with weather. Counts after cold front passages in both spring and fall were higher than those preceding the fronts for all migrants combined.
20456146|We measured rates of mass change of eight species of migratory passerines in a New York City park during three consecutive spring and autumn migrations to evaluate the quality of an urban habitat as a stopover site. We also examined seasonal differences in body condition. Linear regressions of a condition index on time of day detected significant hourly mass gain by Magnolia Warbler (Dendroica magnolia), Black-throated Blue Warbler (D. caerulescens), Ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapilla), and Northern Waterthrush (S. noveboracensis) during spring, and Common Yellowthroat (Geothlypis trichas) during autumn. Swainson's Thrush (Catharus ustulatus) showed significant mass loss during autumn. Significant spring mass gain rates ranged from 0.99 to 2.46% of mean body mass/hr. Common Yellowthroat gained 1.28% of mean body mass/hr during autumn. Most species were heavier and fatter in spring than autumn. The significant mass gain rates were comparable to those in similar studies in more pristine areas. Our results suggest the urban stopover site we examined is a place where migrants can sufficiently replenish energy stores. This highlights the importance of conserving and properly managing remaining green spaces in urban areas along major migratory bird flyways.
20456147|We used satellite telemetry locations accurate within 1 km to identify migration routes and stopover sites of 54 migratory sub-adult Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) hatched in Florida from 1997 to 2001. We measured number of days traveled during migration, path of migration, stopover time and locations, and distance traveled to and from winter and summer areas for each eagle (1-5 years old). Eagles used both Coastal Plain (n = 24) and Appalachian Mountain (n = 26) routes on their first migration north. Mountain migrants traveled farther (x = 2,112 km; 95% CI: 1,815-2,410) than coastal migrants (x = 1,397 km; 95% CI: 1,087-1,706). Eagles changed between migration routes less often on northbound and southbound movements as they matured ( = 13.22, df = 2, P &lt; 0.001). One-year-old eagles changed routes between yearly spring and fall migrations 57% of the time, 2-year-olds 30%, and 3-5-year-olds changed only 17% of the time. About half (n = 25, 46%) used stopovers during migration and stayed 6-31 days (x = 14.8 days; 95% CI: 12.8-16.8). We recommend that migratory stopover site locations be added to GIS data bases for improving conservation of Bald Eagles in the eastern United States.
20456148|Habitat loss, introduced predators, and hybridization with feral Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) continue to threaten the existence of the endangered Hawaiian Duck or Koloa maoli (A. wyvilliana). Protection and management of core breeding areas is a recovery objective, but lack of quantitative information on the species' habitat needs hinders recovery efforts. We conducted bi-monthly surveys of 48 wetlands on private lands on the Island of Hawai'i from March 2002 to June 2003. We compared Koloa use between seasons, wetland types, and study regions and modeled how use varied with 14 site and landscape variables. Koloa occupied 54% of the surveyed wetlands; use was higher on wetlands enhanced or created for Koloa primarily through the USDA's Wetlands Reserve Program (WRP) than on ponds created for agriculture (81 vs. 41%) and on wetlands in the Kohala than in the Mauna Kea region (93 vs. 38%). Koloa were more likely to use wetlands farther (&gt;600 m) from houses, larger (&gt;0.23 ha) wetlands, and those surrounded by more wetlands area (&gt;1 ha). Our results (1) indicate WRP wetlands provide suitable habitat and (2) support wetlands enhancement or creation far from human disturbance. Habitat improvements combined with feral Mallard control may reduce extinction threats to Koloa.
20456149|We investigated environmental variables linked to presence of Barrow's Goldeneye (Bucephala islandica) pairs from the eastern North American population on 412 lakes of the Sainte-Marguerite River watershed, Qubec, Canada. We analysed habitat relationships at two spatial scales (i.e., considering all lakes surveyed and high elevation lakes only) and predetermined the high elevation lakes as those including 90% of Barrow's Goldeneye occurrences. Barrow's Goldeneye were found on 59 lakes, all of which were 490 m elevation (maximum = 822 m) with 90% at 610 m. Six variables tested using multivariate logistic regressions contributed to explain the occurrence of goldeneyes. Four were significant (P &lt; 0.10) in both the complete and the high elevation data sets: nest boxes (+) and brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) (-) occurrences, altitude (+), and the interaction between altitude and mean slope (+). The models explained only a small proportion of Barrow's Goldeneye occurrence for both data sets (R = 0.27 and 0.23, respectively). The negative relationship between Barrow's Goldeneye and brook trout occurrences, and the positive relationship with altitude probably reflect a positive relationship between goldeneye and highly productive aquatic ecosystems. Barrow's Goldeneye from eastern North America primarily use high altitudinal, productive lakes during the breeding season, which emphasizes the importance of fishless lakes for that population at risk.
20456150|We surveyed 366 historical and potential nesting sites for Black Swifts (Cypseloides niger) from 1997 to 2005 in the Southern Rocky Mountains, evaluated their suitability for nesting, and searched for evidence of occupancy. Our surveys located 70 previously undocumented occupied sites, increasing the inventory of sites in the region from 33 to 103. Our results provide a preliminary estimate of Black Swift population size. Comparison of observed colony sizes with those reported in earlier studies suggests little or no change in population levels over the past 50 years. We rated each nest site on conformance to characteristics described in earlier studies. Analysis of 291 site evaluations support a priori assumptions that increasing stream flow, number of potential nest platforms, amount of available moss, shading of potential nest niches, topographic relief of surrounding terrain, and ease of aerial access to potential nest niches contributed to a higher probability the site would be occupied by Black Swifts.
20456151|Vermilion Flycatchers (Pyrocephalus rubinus) were documented to reuse their nests within a single breeding season in south Texas. I recorded a consistent, low frequency (12%, n = 250 clutches) of nest reuse during each of four seasons. Nest survival was greater (P &lt; 0.001) for reused nests than for newly constructed nests and the abundance of ectoparasites was low overall for both types of nests. The main advantage for Vermilion Flycatchers reusing nests was greater nesting success as nest reuse was associated with reduced nest predation. Nest reuse also increased time available for nesting attempts as a flycatcher would save 8 days (9%) (during three attempts) of the time typically available for nesting in south Texas. Reported nest reuse was common (&gt;25% of a family's members) among 5 families of passerines. Aspects of the life histories of these groups support hypotheses for the observed nest reuse behavior among Vermilion Flycatchers.
20456152|We provide substantial new information on the breeding biology of the Rusty-breasted Antpitta (Grallaricula ferrugineipectus ferrugineipectus) from 40 nests during four consecutive breeding seasons at Yacamb National Park in Venezuela. Vocalizations are quite variable in G. ferrugineipectus. Nesting activity peaked in April when laying began for half of all nests monitored. The data of nest initiation pattern suggests this species is single-brooded. Both parents incubate and the percent of time they incubate is high (87-99%) throughout the incubation period. The incubation period averaged ( SE) 17.0  0.12 days, while the nestling period averaged 13.37  0.37 days. G. f. ferrugineipectus has the shortest developmental time described for its genus. Time spent brooding nestlings decreased as nestlings grew, but was still greater at pin feather break day than observed in north temperate species. The growth rate constant based on mass (k = 0.41) and tarsus length (k = 0.24) was lower than the k for north temperate species of similar adult mass. All nesting mortality was caused by predation and overall daily survival rate ( SE) was relatively low (0.94  0.01) yielding an estimated 15% nest success.
20456153|We studied the diet and foraging ecology of a community of six psittacines in western Costa Rica. All had a varied diet with clear seasonal changes in preferred food items, mostly due to changes in plant phenology. There was a significant relationship between parrot mass and food types: larger-bodied parrots consumed more seeds and smaller-bodied parakeets consumed more fruit pulp. Leaves, bark, and lichen were also consumed by most psittacines. Most parrots consumed more plant species in the dry season when food availability was at its peak. Levins' niche breath showed varying levels of diet specialization among species and, for some species, variation among seasons. There was less similarity in seasonal psittacine diets when compared to overall diets. Scarlet Macaws (Ara macao) under study were captive raised and released which may have contributed to their narrow diet breadth as they may have lacked the knowledge or experience to exploit additional food sources. Non-native and cultivated species comprised 76% of the diet of Scarlet Macaws, and averaged 28% for all other species. This suggests that foraging parrots may have increased conflicts with humans as landscapes become increasingly modified. Forest restoration strategies should augment the abundance of food species consumed when overall food supply is at its annual low.
20456154|The decline of Golden-winged Warblers (Vermivora chrysoptera) has been attributed in part to hybridization with a sister species, the Blue-winged Warbler (V. pinus), which lacks the black throat patch typical of the Golden-winged Warbler. Understanding the signal function of male plumage ornaments in Golden-winged Warblers may provide insight into the mechanisms driving hybridization. If Golden-winged Warbler males use the black throat patch for interspecific signaling, Blue-winged Warblers or hybrids may be leading hybridization between the species. We examined the signal function of the melanin-based throat patch in a population of Golden-winged Warblers on the edge of the hybrid zone. Males with increased ultra violet chroma in their throat patches were older and their mates had significantly earlier first egg dates. This suggests the black throat patch of Golden-winged Warblers may be an age-related indicator of quality. Female Golden-winged Warblers should not mate preferentially with males which lack the black throat patch if it functions as an indicator of age and or male quality.
20456155|House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) in North America are a commonly-studied species, but basic aspects of their life history remain poorly understood. I banded and observed marked House Finches at a backyard feeding site in a suburban neighborhood in Atlanta, Georgia from August 2002 through July 2004 to address how age, gender, mycoplasmal conjunctivitis, and time of year affected fidelity of individual House Finches to this site. Of 386 House Finches banded, I recaptured 77 and recorded 1,210 reobservations. More than half (55%) of all birds banded were not seen again and, of those that were, almost half (44%) were seen for less than 2 months. A House Finch's age, gender, and month of capture significantly affected how many times it was subsequently encountered (recaptured or reobserved), but not the duration of time it spent at the site of banding. Young birds (HYs) were encountered more often than adults (AHYs), and females more than males. Young birds with mycoplasmal conjunctivitis were encountered less often than those without, but this was not true for adults. These data indicate high site fidelity of adults during the breeding season and low site fidelity of juveniles early in the summer that becomes higher in late summer. Most birds captured in fall were encountered for up to 3 months. These results are discussed in relation to previous studies and their implications for transmission of Mycoplasma gallisepticum among House Finches.
20456156|Caspian Tern (Sterna caspia) plumage characteristics are sexually monochromatic and gender cannot easily be distinguished in the field without extensive behavioral observations. We assessed sexual size dimorphism and developed a discriminant function to assign gender in Caspian Terns based on external morphology. We collected and measured Caspian Terns in San Francisco Bay, California, and confirmed their gender based on necropsy and genetic analysis. Of the eight morphological measurements we examined, only bill depth at the gonys and head plus bill length differed between males and females with males being larger than females. A discriminant function using both bill depth at the gonys and head plus bill length accurately assigned gender of 83% of terns for which gender was known. We improved the accuracy of our discriminant function to 90% by excluding individuals that had less than a 75% posterior probability of correctly being assigned to gender. Caspian Terns showed little sexual size dimorphism in many morphometrics, but our results indicate they can be reliably assigned to gender in the field using two morphological measurements.
20456157|We investigated the effects of urban noise on auditory surveys of White-winged Doves (Zenaida asiatica) in two major cities in Texas. We conducted auditory point counts throughout the morning in San Antonio (n = 6) and Austin (n = 10) during week days (when traffic noise is higher) and weekends. We categorized survey points as near or far from roads (&lt;0.8 and &gt;0.8 km, respectively) for comparison. We documented no difference in density estimates in Austin between week days (46  10 pairs/ha) and weekends (52  10 pairs/ha; P = 0.23); however, weekend estimates were consistently higher throughout the morning. Weekend density estimates in San Antonio were higher after 0620 hrs (P &lt; 0.04), the time coinciding with beginning of the morning commute during week days in this city. We documented that weekend estimates (45  5 pairs/ha) were higher than week day estimates (33  5 pairs/ha) for points near roads (within 0.8 km; P = 0.02) but not for points far from roads (P = 0.16). Our results indicate that traffic noise can bias auditory surveys. Survey methods that account for probability of detection should be used to correct for potential noise bias.
20456158|Body size measurements from freshly collected birds and dried museum specimens were used to evaluate specimen shrinkage in Cinnamon Teal (Anas cyanoptera). Six of seven body measurements of female Cinnamon Teal differed significantly after specimen drying, whereas five of seven male body measurements differed. The largest amount of shrinkage was in bill height, bill width, and tarsus length. Bill length at nares showed no significant shrinkage suggesting it is a more conservative measurement than exposed culmen and, therefore, a more reliable method for accurately measuring bill length. Correction values for body size measurements are reported for future waterfowl studies combining measurements of both live birds and museum specimens.
20456159|The Coastal Plain Swamp Sparrow (Melospiza georgiana nigrescens) is morphologically distinct, restricted to a narrowly-defined habitat type, and geographically isolated within the mid-Atlantic Coastal Plain. The breeding range has been considered to extend from the Nanticoke River in Maryland north to the Hudson River. We report a previously undocumented population near Warsaw, Virginia that extends the known range south and west into a region of the Chesapeake Bay with extensive tidal fresh and brackish marshes consistent with the habitat requirements of this form, but for which there has been no documented breeding. A broader investigation of occurrence within appropriate habitat seems warranted given the small global population size and uncertain status within the southern portion of its range.
20456160|Polyandry occurs when females form social bonds and gain simultaneous parental care from multiple male mates. It is thought to be rare in birds and to occur more often in territorial species when the Operational Sex Ratio (OSR; ratio of mature males to females) exceeds one. We asked if variation in the OSR affected the rate of polyandry in Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) over 30 years on Mandarte Island, British Columbia, Canada. We found no correlation between OSR and polyandry (
20456161|The Little Greenbul (Andropadus virens) is a common African forest bird that is thought to form monogamous pair bonds. In March 2007, I observed a male hanging below a presumed female perched on a branch, apparently inspecting her cloaca and clinging to her when she flew from that branch, while singing throughout. This apparent mate guarding behavior suggests that extra-pair fertilizations may occur in this species.
20456162|On 28 April 2006 in Ohio and again on 19 May 2006 in North Carolina, I observed and, on the April occasion, recorded a Yellow-throated Warbler (Dendroica dominica) singing a type B song. A sound spectrogram of this rare song is compared with the more common type A song of this species. I present evidence that my recording is a type B song and speculate on the rare condition and function of this song.
20456163|We studied substrate composition and vegetation cover at Piping Plover (Charadrius melodus) nests and paired random plots on New York beaches that had been widened by renourishment (de-position of dredged sand). Most nests (59.4%, n = 32) were in unvegetated plots, mean  SE vegetative cover around nests was 7.5  1.7%, and all plovers nested in &lt;47% cover. Most nests (59.4%) were on pure sand and mean coarse grain cover (pebble and cobble-sized objects) on nest plots was 9.1  2.6%. Nest plots were more likely to be vegetated than paired random plots. Coarse substrate also was of high relative importance in distinguishing nests and random plots. Beach management projects can reduce sparse vegetation and coarse substrate, which may affect Piping Plover nest site selection.
20456164|We observed a male Black-capped Vireo (Vireo atricapilla) exhibiting nest site selection in east-central Texas. The paired male was observed to deconstruct the nest the female was assembling. To our knowledge, male nest site selection has not been observed and reported in the literature for vireos.
20456165|Black-throated Green Warblers (Dendroica virens) typically place their nests within the dense foliage of a limb or in a branch fork against the trunk of a living conifer. I report four unusual nests from Algonquin Provincial Park, Ontario, Canada: three in feeding cavities of Pileated Woodpecker (Dryocopus pileatus) in snags (i.e., dead trees), and one in a sugar maple borer (Glycobius speciosus, Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) scar in a tree of declining health. These data are the first documentation of this species nesting within cavities and enhance our understanding of the importance of snags and trees in declining health for wildlife.
20456166|Information on the breeding behavior of the Red-ruffed Fruitcrow (Pyroderus scutatus) is scarce and restricted to the subspecies P. s. granadensis and P. s. orenocensis. We found the first nest of the nominate subspecies (P. s. scutatus) in an Atlantic Forest area in southeastern Brazil on 28 November 2004. The nest contained two nestlings and was built on a horizontal fork, 16.7 m above ground. It was cup-shaped with a substantial base composed of twigs: outside diameter 38 cm, cup diameter 16.5 cm, outside height 11.3 cm, and inside height 5 cm. The nestlings were thickly covered with brownish down. Only one unknown gender adult visited the nest. Although locally endangered, the breeding cycle of this species remains poorly known.
20456167|We observed an adult male Hawai'i 'Amakihi (Hemignathus virens) repeatedly feed a fledgling Palila (Loxioides bailleui). We observed 16-19 food provisions during 14 hrs of observation between 21 and 29 June 2006. The presumed biological parents were frequently seen nearby, but adult Palila were not observed feeding the fledgling.
20456168|We describe an adoption event by a female Eastern Bluebird (Sialia sialis) and suggest a mechanism by which adoption could be adaptive. The foster female adopted three young and we were able to quantify two measures of parental care (nestling provisioning and nest defense). The foster female successfully reproduced with the father of the young in the same location later in the breeding season. The adopting female may be increasing her fitness by gaining future reproduction with a fertile mate at a productive nest box through parental care for young that are not related.
20456169|Intraspecific killing without cannibalism is rare in birds. I report an observation of an adult Pacific Reef Egret (Egretta sacra) killing an adult conspecific at One Tree Island, Great Barrier Reef, Australia. The motivation and context for the killing were not apparent. To the best of my knowledge, this is the first report of intraspecific killing in Pacific Reef Egrets.
20456176|Swainson's Warbler (Limnothlypis swainsonii) is a species of conservation concern because of its small wintering range in the Caribbean Basin, relatively low population densities, and habitat fragmentation in its core breeding range in the southeastern United States. We investigated microsatellite DNA variation among 11 breeding populations from eastern Texas to Virginia and two populations from wintering areas in Jamaica and Mexico. Analyses of six polymorphic loci indicated a moderate level of gene flow among breeding populations, relatively small effective population sizes (&lt;200 individuals in each sampled population), and subtle population variation. We detected no evidence of population bottlenecks in breeding or wintering populations. Bayesian assignment tests suggested that substantial mixing of breeding populations may occur in wintering areas. Genetic differences between the Mexican and Jamaican populations indicate they may be drawn from different subsets of breeding populations. Patterns of genetic variation among breeding and wintering populations suggest a network of local and regional conservation programs may be necessary to maintain genetic diversity in Swainson's Warbler.
20456177|The Canada Warbler (Wilsonia canadensis) is currently in decline in the northeastern United States and basic demographic parameters remain to be described. We studied marked populations (76 ASYs, 14 SYs, and 2 of unknown age) of Canada Warblers on two study sites from 2003 to 2006. We mapped 92 territories (including males returning in multiple years) of 71 males using handheld GPS and ArcMap. We compared the pairing and fledging success of older and younger males on both sites, a red maple (Acer rubrum) swamp and a young forest intensively harvested in 1985 with  10% residual standing trees used by males as song perch trees. Both sites had a high proportion of ASYs (84% ASY for all territorial males, 77.5% of all males including non-territorial individuals). Both pairing (91%) and fledging (78%) success was comparatively high suggesting these two sites were of high value to this species. A higher proportion of SYs were transients. Pairing success was lower for younger males which established territories, but paired SYs fledged at least one young at a rate comparable to older males. This study corroborates the benefits of age and experience to reproductive performance. The results suggest that both red maple swamps and post-harvest forests with thick subcanopy vegetation and emergent trees provide high quality habitat for breeding Canada Warblers.
20456178|We used radio-telemetry to locate night roosts of 54 Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapilla) wintering in a coastal second-growth scrub habitat in Jamaica. All Ovenbirds roosted within their daytime home range and most individuals roosted within the core of their diurnal home range. Sixty-six percent of individuals roosted within the 30% core use distribution (i.e., most heavily used portion of their home range) and 35% of individuals roosted within the 10% core. The average distance between roost sites for 29 individuals located on more than one night was 34 m and at least three birds roosted solitarily in the same location on different nights. Roost location relative to the 10% core area of diurnal home range did not differ between males and females, adults and immatures, or between individuals studied in subsequent years. The wintering Ovenbird population we studied appeared to roost solitarily. This study is the first to provide quantitative evidence that individual migrant songbirds in a tropical wintering population consistently roost at night within their foraging home range. These results suggest that roosting behavior is correlated with daytime space use patterns of the winter social system.
20456179|I studied the reproductive success of the Puerto Rican Vireo (Vireo latimeri) from 1998 to 2000 in Maricao State Forest, a montane reserve in the southwestern part of Puerto Rico. No parasitism by the Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis) was found but 63% of 38 active nests were depredated with an overall daily nest survival of 0.932  0.007 ( SE). Mean nest survival estimates following Hurricane Georges did not vary significantly before and after the hurricane. However, a return rate of only 39% was estimated for color-marked adults the year including the hurricane compared to 72% for the year without a hurricane. A 26% decline in density of territorial males was observed in the post-hurricane year.
20456180|We examined nest defense behavior of the Carolina Wren (Thryothorus ludovicianus) in response to avian intruders at the nest. Freeze-dried mounts of a brood parasite (female Brown-headed Cowbird [Molothrus ater]), nest predator (Blue Jay [Cyanocitta cristata]), and a control (Swainson's Thrush [Catharus ustulatus]) were presented at wren nests to examine if wrens were able to distinguish among these threats. The primary nest defense behavior of Carolina Wrens was alarm calls. Wrens spent more time alarm calling to the Blue Jay model than the control and Brown-headed Cowbird models suggesting cowbirds were not recognized as threats to the nest. Wrens were less likely to respond during laying stage trials, probably due to a lack of nest visitations at this time. Intensity of alarm calls did not increase from the laying to nestling stage for any of the models presented. Carolina Wrens are both socially and genetically monogamous, and males should invest heavily in care of young due to their high confidence of paternity. Males and females did not differ in the amount of time spent alarm calling to any of the models, and defended their nests from intruders with equal intensity as predicted by the confidence of paternity hypothesis.
20456181|We describe the nest and eggs of the Puna Tapaculo (Scytalopus simonsi) from Bolivia, and include observations of nest building, incubation, and parental care. The nest is similar to several other described nests in the genus in construction and placement: a domed cup nest of grasses in an excavated burrow in a vertical bank. Both male and female constructed the nest, brooded, and provisioned the young, typical of Scytalopus and tracheophone suboscines. This is only the second described Scytalopus nest constructed of grasses, probably an adaptation to its drier habitat near and above treeline. The growing body of Scytalopus nest descriptions suggests they do not exhibit generic level stereotyped nest structure and placement, unlike other tracheophone suboscines, which show strong phylogenetic signal in nest architecture.
20456182|Acorn Woodpecker (Melanerpes formicivorus) populations were sampled to evaluate geographic patterns of differentiation and connectivity across the species' range. We observed patterns of differentiation generally coincident with geographic patterns in plumage patterns with distinct subpopulations in Baja California Sur, northern Central America, southern Central America, and mainland Mexico north into the southwestern United States. We confirmed the existence of geographic genetic structuring of populations of this species, although shared haplotypes between Baja California Sur and mainland Mexico suggest that lineage sorting is not yet complete. The process of geographic differentiation and speciation is likely still underway in this group.
20456183|We studied the diet of the Acorn Woodpeckers (Melanerpes formicivorus) at La Primavera Forest, Jalisco, Mexico. This resident species had a diverse diet throughout all seasons. The diet included acorns of Quercus viminea, Q. castanea, and Q. laeta, which were stored primarily in granaries in live trunks of pine (Pinus spp.) trees. They also consumed acorns of Q. magnoliifolia and Q. resinosa by piercing and eating just the central part of the seed. Acorn Woodpeckers did not use acorns from species of oak in the same proportion as available. They also fed seasonally on insects (Coleoptera and Lepidoptera) and tree sap.
20456184|We used remote recorders to document temporal variation in acoustic signals of a population of Pileated Woodpeckers (Dryocopus pileatus) along the Choctawhatchee River in the Florida Panhandle, sampling seven different locations for 24 hrs once a week between mid January and mid April 2006. We found significant seasonal variation in the drumming behavior and vocal behavior of Pileated Woodpeckers. Drumming behavior peaked in mid March, just prior to onset of breeding activities. The three primary long-distance Pileated Woodpecker vocalizations, the cackle call, the wuk series call, and the wok call had similar patterns of seasonal variation. All four acoustic signals declined to low levels by early April when birds were nesting. The seasonal pattern of variation for all four Pileated Woodpecker acoustic signals had a similar pattern to that observed for song in many temperate passerines, and support the hypothesis that woodpecker calls and drumming displays are the functional counterparts to passerine song.
20456185|We investigated the influence of lunar and environmental factors on behavior of Common Poorwills (Phalaenoptilus nuttallii) in southern Arizona under a diverse set of natural and artificial conditions. Radio-marked poorwills were most active shortly after sunset during the new moon. Movements declined as evening progressed. Activity remained high for several hours after sunset when the moon was full. Poorwills were heard calling from March through October, but most calling occurred between early May and September. Only ambient light was correlated with number of poorwills heard calling. More poorwills responded to play-backs of conspecifics when the moon was full than when it was new. Poorwills did not change their response to conspecifics during full moon when playback of poorwill calls followed playback of Great Horned Owl (Bubo virginianus) calls but, during the new moon, fewer birds responded following the owl call. Poorwill behavior is strongly influenced by lunar conditions; their ability to detect and evade predators is important when calling advertises their location.
20456186|We conducted 262 call-broadcast point-count surveys (1-6 replicate surveys on each of 62 points) using standardized North American Marsh Bird Monitoring Protocols between 31 May and 7 July 2006 on St. Vincent National Wildlife Refuge, an island off the northwest coast of Florida. We conducted double-blind multiple-observer surveys, paired morning and evening surveys, and paired morning and night surveys to examine the influence of call-broadcast and time of day on detection probability. Observer detection probability for all species pooled was 75% and was similar between passive (69%) and call-broadcast (65%) periods. Detection probability was higher on morning than evening (t = 3.0, P = 0.030) or night (t = 3.4, P = 0.042) surveys when we pooled all species. Detection probability was higher (but not significant for all species) on morning compared to evening or night surveys for all five focal species detected on surveys: Least Bittern (Ixobrychus exilis), Clapper Rail (Rallus longirostris), Purple Gallinule (Porphyrula martinica), Common Moorhen (Gallinula chloropus), and American Coot (Fulica americana). We detected more Least Bitterns (t = 2.4, P = 0.064) and Common Moorhens (t = 2.8, P = 0.026) on morning than evening surveys, and more Clapper Rails (t = 5.1, P = 0.014) on morning than night surveys.
20456187|We studied variation in acoustic and temporal characteristics of the static male song of the Green Violetear (Colibri thalassinus) in a single population in Costa Rica. The static song of 19 males was extremely variable. The song has two elements: the first was delivered exclusively at the beginning of each song while the second was present once, twice, or three times in the song of different males. Low frequency (LF), song duration (T), and high frequency (HF) varied significantly among most individuals. The male population of Green Violetear has four song types that differ in acoustic and temporal characteristics. The great inter-male song variation suggests this type of vocalization may be under sexual selection.
20456188|The invasive exotic Chinese tallow tree (Triadica sebifera) produces an abundant fruit crop, which is primarily bird-dispersed. The fruit pulp of tallow is lipid-rich, high in saturated fatty acids, and consumed by many bird species. Long-chained fatty acids can be difficult for many birds to digest and we investigated the ability of tallow consumers to assimilate energy in the pulp. We used the total collection method and compared apparent metabolizable energy (AME) of tallow fruit for three species of birds with differing fruit composition in their natural diets. All birds exhibited nitrogen deficits and lost body mass during the trials. Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis) lost more mass (8.73%/day) than Yellow-rumped Warblers (Dendroica coronata) (5.29%/day) and American Robins (Turdus migratorius) (5.48%/day), and had larger nitrogen deficits (- 120.1 mg N/g diet) than both species as well (- 36.4 mg N/g diet and -68.9 mg N/g diet, respectively). Food intake relative to metabolic body mass was highest in Yellow-rumped Warblers (
20456189|I examined how High Andean insectivorous birds partition resources in remnant Polylepis forest patches at three locations in the Cordillera Vilcanota, southern Peru. A number of distinctive guilds were identified within the bird community based on the manner and location of foraging displayed by each species. Important dimensions that enabled differentiation amongst guild co-members were those that supported the partitioning of resources between guilds. The significant disproportionate use of substrates and prey-attack maneuvers by birds indicated substrate specialization within the insectivorous Polylepis bird community. These specializations provide a means by which Polylepis insectivores fit syntopically along a resource gradient. Insectivores demonstrated a differential response to foraging in smaller patches, and changes in the foraging regimes of four guilds between large and small patches were frequent. The most abundant insectivores in small patches were the least diverse foragers; they compensated behaviorally for changes in patch habitat quality by using fewer substrates and prey-attack maneuvers. Guild members that shifted their foraging regime to use fewer attack maneuvers were also more tolerant of small patches. Small Polylepis patches have a significant role in fragmented High-Andean ecosystem functioning by providing essential foraging habitat for insectivorous birds.
20456190|Eight nests of the Giant Conebill (Oreomanes fraseri, Family Thraupidae) were found in Polylepis forest fragments in Cochabamba Department (Sacha Loma and Cuturi) of Bolivia during 2002-2004. The breeding period of the Giant Conebill extended from September to December at the beginning of the rainy season. The nests were open cups with an average outside width of 20 cm and a thick rim of 5.5 cm; the average clutch size was 1.86. Nests were constructed mostly with parts of Polylepis trees and a variety of mosses. All nests located were in the interior of forests, well camouflaged, and in trees with an average height of 3.16 m. Control of human disturbance, especially burning, is needed for protection of the habitat of the Giant Conebill.
20456191|Little is known about impacts to birds from collisions with windows at commercial buildings. We monitored bird mortality from striking windows at five commercial buildings on two college campuses in northwestern and southwestern Illinois. Bird mortality at Augustana College (northwestern), which was evaluated from 2002 to 2006, totaled 215 individuals in 48 species for an average rate of 55 birds/building/year. We calculated a mortality rate of 24 birds/building/year for 2004-2005 from 142 individuals within 37 species at Principia College (southwestern). Mortality of North American migrant (NAM) and neotropical migrant (NTM) birds was higher during migration than during summer or winter. We tested the hypothesis at Augustana that density of birds at a given location will be positively correlated with numbers of birds that die due to strikes with windows. Bird density only partially explained strikes with windows since mortality was also a function of landscaped habitat that attracted birds. Annual bird mortality at commercial buildings may be about five times higher than previous estimates. These buildings may place bird populations at high risk of strikes at windows.
20456192|Populations of the hematophagous mite, Dermanyssus prognephilus, within Eastern Bluebird (Sialia sialis) nests were manipulated using a pyrethrin-based insecticide to examine effects on nestling growth, selected hematological parameters, and fledging success. There was no difference in body mass, fledging success, estimated white blood cell counts, or hematocrits of infested versus non-infested nestlings. However, infested nestlings had a 25.0% reduction in hemoglobin and a 20.5% increase in immature erythrocytes. These findings suggest a physiological response to parasite feeding that may affect post-fledging survival.
20456193|Worthen's Sparrow (Spizella wortheni) is one of the most endangered species in Mexico. Its survival depends on appropriate conservation strategies and reliable information about the species. Our study on winter groups of Worthen's Sparrow flocking with other grassland bird species provides preliminary ecological and behavioral information on this species, and its relation to other migratory and resident bird species in La Perforadora Valley, Coahuila, Mexico. We observed flocking associations of Worthen's Sparrow with 16 other species. Ochiai's Association Coefficient indicated Worthen's Sparrow often associated with Vesper Sparrow (Pooecetes gramineus) (0.60), Black-throated Sparrow (Amphispiza bilineata) (0.33), Horned Lark (Eremophila alpestris) (0.27), and Western Bluebird (Sialia mexicana) (0.22). Worthen's Sparrow occurred more frequently in mixed than in monospecific flocks in winter. It foraged more frequently on the ground but also searched in shrub stems, branches, and foliage from perches, and at times hawked for flying insects from perches. Most perches were in the shrub stratum, but fences also were used. Worthen's Sparrow in mixed-species flocks spent more time in foraging activities than those in monospecific flocks.
20456194|We surveyed the coast of Chile between Isla Terhalten (54 20 S) and Islote Leonard (55 44 S) by boat during November-December 2005 to document breeding locations of Rockhopper (Eudyptes chrysocome chrysocome) and Macaroni (E. chrysolophus) penguins, and to count the number of nests during the early incubation period. A yacht-based observation recorded 1,000 Rockhopper Penguin nests at Isla Terhalten. Ground-based counts at Isla Noir estimated a total of 158,200 Rockhopper and 3,470 Macaroni penguin nests in 17 mixed colonies and one Macaroni Penguin breeding colony. The Rockhopper population on Isla Noir increased significantly from the previous estimate of 70,000 pairs, making this island the most important breeding site for the southern subspecies of Rockhopper Penguin. The new estimate for Rockhopper Penguins suggests a population increase over the last 20 years, consistent with recent data for the main colony in Argentina. Conservation status of the species and the factors potentially responsible for population declines elsewhere may need to be re-evaluated.
20456195|Breeding bird surveys indicate a long-term decline in numbers of scoters (Melanitta spp.) breeding in North America. Little is known about the breeding habitat and reproductive life history of Whitewinged Scoters (M. fusca) in their primary breeding areas in the boreal forest of Alaska and northern Canada. We characterized selection of nest habitats and attributes within those habitats by measuring variables at nests and random sites on the Yukon Flats National Wildlife Refuge, Alaska. White-winged Scoters avoided nesting in meadows, but nested in scrub or forested habitat types in proportion to their availability (
20456196|Scoters (Melanitta spp.) exhibit extraordinary maneuvers during courtship flight, attitudes which are not commonly seen in flight. Scoters drop their legs and spread webbed feet during these maneuvers. There appears to be a correlation between how the feet of scoters meet the airflow and the maneuver in progress.
20456197|We report two incidences of Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) entangling their bills in subcutaneously-attached anchor transmitters. We suggest caution should be exercised when using these transmitters.
20456198|Band-tailed Pigeons (Patagioenas fasciata) wintering at Hastings Reservation in central coastal California during winter 2006-2007 died in large numbers between January and March 2007. Laboratory analysis of carcasses indicated that Trichomonas gallinae was responsible for the die-off. During the height of the die-off, a survey of 2.5 km of suitable riparian habitat resulted in 373 pigeon carcasses being found. Based on a subsample of carcasses, mean turnover rate was 2.8 days with a 95% confidence interval of 2-10 days. Extrapolating to suitable habitat over the 52.7-km study area resulted in a conservative estimate of 43,059 dead pigeons, assuming a conservative carcass turnover rate of 10 days. This estimate of mortality is nearly three times the largest trichomoniasis mortality event previously recorded for Band-tailed Pigeons and at least twice the number harvested annually in the United States. Local mortality of pigeons in Monterey County, California may have been several times this estimate based on the presence of considerable similar habitat in the nearby Ventana Wilderness.
20456199|Arthur T. Wayne collected 58 Yellow Rails (Coturnicops noveboracensis) during seven winters between 1903 and 1918 at one locality on the Atlantic coast in Charleston County, South Carolina. The collection represents the largest known series of Yellow Rails from a single wintering site and provides information about the winter ecology of this species. There was no evidence that Yellow Rail numbers varied between winters. The sex ratio was significantly biased toward females suggesting the occurrence of differential wintering. Yellow Rails were collected mainly in wet (freshwater) fields with short dense grass, the same features of Yellow Rail habitats in coastal Texas. Yellow Rails were consistently located in the same habitats as LeConte's Sparrow (Ammodramus leconteii). Two other grassland species, Henslow's Sparrows (A. henslowii) and Sedge Wrens (Cistothorus palustris), had habitat occupancy patterns significantly different from that of Yellow Rails.
20456200|Water was released from a reservoir in May 2005 to restore the wetland of international importance at Zhalong, China. As a result, the water level on the floodplain rose rapidly. A pair of Red-crowned Cranes (Grus japonensis) was observed raising their nest to avoid submersion and loss of eggs. The nest and two eggs were tended by both adults, but the eggs did not hatch. Hatching failure may have resulted from low egg temperatures due to addition of wet and new nesting materials, and reduction of incubation time during the flooding event. Reservoir discharge should avoid the breeding period of waterbirds and discharge rates should be reduced.
20456201|We found evidence of birds nesting directly on glacier ice of the Quelccaya Ice Cap in the Cordillera Vilcanota, Per at elevations up to 5,300 m. Observations during June and July over several years consisted of numerous nests not in situ having obviously fallen from the steep and dynamic, retreating glacier margin. A typical nest was a bulky structure of grass and twigs with a dry mass of 160 g. The inner cup was nicely formed and lined with fine grass, measuring 6-7 cm in diameter and 4-5 cm deep. Feathers and entire wings of White-winged Diuca Finch (Diuca speculifera) were observed in association with the nests; this was the passerine species most commonly seen in the area. The evidence indicates the glacier nests were built and used by White-winged Diuca Finch, probably during the Austral autumn when onsite automated measurements indicate the wet season ends and air temperatures have not yet decreased. This is the first well-documented case of high-elevation avian nesting on glacier ice.
20456202|The Rota White-eye (Zosterops rotensis) is an endangered species endemic to the island of Rota in western Micronesia. We monitored eight nests from 2003 to 2005, four of which produced at least one fledgling. Clutch size was two in each of five nests that were counted; the average number of fledglings from successful nests was 1.5 (n = 4). We filmed six nests and captured two nest predation events on video. A Mariana Crow (Corvus kubaryi), which is also an endangered species, was filmed taking nestlings from one white-eye nest. Another nest containing eggs was depredated by a rat (Rattus spp.); however, this may have occurred after the nest was abandoned due to the presence of the camera.
20456203|Predation is the primary cause of nest loss in most passerine species. While nest predation is important, the predator community and behaviors of parents and predators during predation events are poorly documented. I witnessed one and videotaped four predation events at nests of Western Slaty Antshrikes (Thamnophilus atrinucha) in central Panama. Predators included a snake (Pseustes poecilonotus), a monkey (white-faced capuchin [Cebus capucinus]), and three species of birds. Predators spent little time at the nest, yet some returned repeatedly to the same nest. Parents also returned several times to nests after the predation event and parental behaviors varied depending on the predator. Nest disturbance was not an accurate indicator of predator type.
20456204|We report the first records of Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) raised to fleding by Bachman's Sparrow (Aimophila aestivalis). Records are based on field observations of parasitized sparrow nests monitored during two separate avian reproductive studies. One record is of a Bachman's Sparrow nest in southwestern Florida in 2002 and four records are of unpublished data from sparrow nests in central Arkansas during 1983-1985. These observations suggest that Bachman's Sparrow can successfully raise cowbird young. Ours is also the first record of a parasitized Bachman's Sparrow nest in Florida.
20456205|We present the first observations of misdirected parental care by Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) including a rare occurrence of simultaneous incubation. Two females simultaneously incubated eggs, brooded, and fed nestlings, and two males fed nestlings in one nest. These behaviors may have been prompted by strong parental instincts in combination with a stressful breeding environment mediated by hayfield management, as any genetic benefits were unlikely.
20456206|Grey Herons (Ardea cinerea) typically prey upon fish and other aquatic organisms with occasional reports of predating small birds. I report observations of one or more Grey Herons predating on Aldabra White-throated Rails (Dryolimnas cuvieri aldabranus) on Picard Island (Aldabra Atoll, Seychelles). Grey Herons were observed on two occasions having caught rails and, on another occasion, a heron was observed ambushing and pursuing rails with no success. Heron(s) were not observed ingesting the rails, as they flew or ran off with their prey, but it is likely the rails were consumed. These are the first observations of any form of predation on the Aldabra White-throated Rail, which is one of the largest recorded avian prey of the Grey Heron.
20456207|We report the predation of Black Swan (Cygnus atratus) eggs and cygnets by adult Purple Swamphens (Porphyrio porphyrio), a mostly-herbivorous species of rail, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
20456208|We observed a Northern Fulmar (Fulmarus glacialis) prey upon a live Common Murre (Uria aalge) off Cape Spear, Newfoundland, Canada on 4 November 2007. Active predation of Northern Fulmars on other seabirds has not previously been reported.
20456209|Boluses were collected from Black-crowned Night-heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) nestlings in 1992 to examine the impact of night-heron predation on a restored tern colony. Boulses (n = 101) were collected from 18 nests. Fish remains occurred in 89% of nests, sand shrimp (Crangon septemspinosa) in 50%, birds in 28%, and amphibians in 16% of nests sampled; mammalian, eel, squid, and marine invertebrate remains were also noted. Regurgitated bird remains were found in five nests and included four species, Common Terns (Sterna hirundo), Common Eiders (Somateria mollissima), Gulls (Larus sp.), and the legs of an unknown wading bird. Nestling night-herons from three nests were fed tern chicks, but 92% of tern chicks known to have been eaten were fed to nestling Black-crowned Night-herons in one nest. No tern chicks fledged in 1992 and night-herons were observed in the tern colony on multiple occasions. This study suggests that individual night-herons will specialize on waterbird prey. The subsequent removal of a specialist night-heron predator resulted in improved tern productivity.
20456210|This is the first report of the diet composition of Long-eared Owl (Asio otus) in the northern and central Negev desert, Israel. The diet consisted of 71.3% small mammals, 26.5% birds, 2.0% invertebrates, and 0.1% reptiles. There were no significant differences among the seven localities studied or among seasons in percent rodents or invertebrates in the diet. However, the proportion of psammophilious rodents within the diet was larger in settlements where the soil was sand or sandy-loess and smaller where the soil was loess or rocky. Percent birds in the diet did not differ among localities, but differed among seasons. Migratory birds formed a significantly larger part of the total birds consumed during migration than during the non-migratory months.
20456211|We document the first observed instance of polygyny in Flammulated Owls (Otus flammeolus) and the first among insectivorous raptors. Chronologies of the male's two nests, which were 510 m apart, were separated by nearly 2 weeks. Each brood initially consisted of three owlets, similar to the mean brood size in monogamous pairs. The male delivered considerably fewer prey to the secondary nest, compared with prey-delivery rates at nests of monogamous males during the nestling period. Evidence suggested that all owlets fledged from the primary brood, but only one fledged from the secondary brood. We were uncertain of the cause of polygyny, but a possible explanation is the Hayman Fire shifted the operational sex ratio of the owls in favor of females. The extent of polygyny in Flammulated Owls may be limited by costs to the reproductive success of secondary females.
20456212|I present the first published observations of the Giant Hummingbird (Patagona gigas) in the mountains of central Argentina. This species was recorded in early and late summer 2006 and 2007. This new range resembles other summer habitats of the species, which are in the Andes &gt;500 km distant. A climatic envelope model configured with known locations obtained from the literature predicts a high probability of occurrence in its "new" range.
20456213|We report Giant Hummingbirds (Patagona gigas), regularly and deliberately, ingesting wood ashes and slaked lime in central Chile. These two minerals have high concentrations of calcium, which may be a scarce element in the nectar-based diet of the species. Both observations occurred during the post-breeding period suggesting the birds were females ingesting calcium-rich compounds to replace minerals lost during eggshell production.
20456214|We provide documentation on the first observations of nocturnal foraging by the Blue-crowned Motmot (Momotus momota). The motmot we observed mainly fed on sphinx (Sphingidae) moths; the capture rate seemed low for this fairly large prey.
20456215|We observed Grey Kingbirds (Tyrannus dominicensis) from late February to May 2007 stealing food items from the bills of Carib Grackles (Quiscalus lugubris). This behavior occurred at two baited walk-in bird traps on the grounds of Bellairs Research Institute of McGill University in St James, Barbados. Grey Kingbirds were not seen entering traps, but were regularly observed in tree branches near traps, often chasing Carib Grackles and Zenaida Doves (Zenaida aurita) as they exited the traps with food. We describe six instances of kleptoparasitism by Grey Kingbirds from Carib Grackles. To our knowledge, this is the first report of kleptoparasitism for this species.
20456216|Some ground-foraging birds, including most New World sparrows in the tribe Emberizini, uncover food items in litter by double-scratching, a backward hop that displaces the litter posteriorly. I report double-scratching by Yellow-headed Blackbirds (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus), a species not previously known to exhibit this behavior. Double-scratching by one individual that was observed in detail occurred with the bill pointed downward with its tip near or touching the ground, as in other icterines but unlike the behavior in Emberizini. This individual, between double-scratches, also used bill-sweeping to displace litter. Double-scratching has a similar form in at least three of the four icterine species reported to show the behavior, suggesting the trait is homologous among these species. However, phylogenetic relationships imply that double-scratching evolved convergently in these taxa.
20456226|Grassland passerines are purported to tolerate parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) because of adaptations by cowbirds that constrain egg discrimination and removal by their hosts, i.e., evolutionary equilibrium, rather than because of an absence of these defensive behaviors, i.e., evolutionary lag. We tested these hypotheses by experimentally parasitizing six grassland species with cowbird-like eggs and non-mimetic (blue) eggs in south-central Saskatchewan. Sprague's Pipits (Anthus spragueii), Vesper (Pooecetes gramineus), Savannah (Passerculus sandwichensis), and Baird's (Ammodramus bairdii) sparrows, and Chestnut-collared Longspurs (Calcarius ornatus) accepted all or nearly all cowbird eggs, but ejected or attempted to eject between 9 and 20% of blue eggs with 54% of rejected eggs not removed from the nests, i.e., failed ejection attempts. Western Meadowlarks (Sturnella neglecta) ejected an intermediate number of cowbird eggs (67%) and most blue eggs (92%), none of which was recovered. Ejection of non-mimetic eggs versus cowbird eggs by each species suggests that similarity in appearance of cowbird eggs and hosts' eggs impeded discrimination and may represent a form of cowbird egg mimicry. The low number of blue eggs ejected by five of the six species, their failure to remove these eggs from the nest sites, and the damage wrought on some hosts' eggs during ejection suggest the morphology of cowbird eggs also constrains ejection behavior. These results support the evolutionary equilibrium hypothesis as the better explanation for acceptance of cowbird parasitism observed in these grassland passerines.
20456227|We describe egg characteristics, and analyze between and within clutch variation in egg size and mass in a natural population of Greater Rheas (Rhea americana). We assess the effect of this variation on nesting success and egg success. Yolk represented 29.5% of egg mass whereas albumen was 63.9%. Yolk mass increased with egg width but not with egg length, while mass of albumen increased mainly with egg length. The largest and smallest eggs were 10.3% larger and 25.3% smaller, respectively than mean intra-clutch values. The widest egg was 11.9% wider while the narrowest egg was 20.5% narrower than mean intra-clutch values. There was a significant decrease in egg size between clutches during the breeding season as a result of a decrease in egg length. There was no effect of laying order on intra-clutch variation in egg size, but we detected an increase in the variation of egg length within clutches with clutch size. We did not detect a relationship between egg size and nesting success, and between egg size and egg success. The relatively low intra-clutch variation in egg size and lack of effect of egg size on hatching success do not support the hypothesis that females invest in eggs according to expected chick fitness.
20456228|The classification of New World martins (Progne) has a convoluted history because taxonomists have relied on plumage traits that vary continuously across populations. We estimated the phylogeny of Progne by analyzing mitochondrial cytochrome b DNA sequences of 27 individuals of eight of the nine species (10 subspecies) and nuclear -fibrinogen intron 7 sequences of 20 individuals of six species (8 subspecies). The Brown-chested Martin (P. tapera) is sister to other Progne species. The Middle American taxa-Sinaloa Martin (P. sinaloae), Cuban Martin (P. cryptoleuca), Caribbean Martin (P. dominicensis), and Central American populations of Gray-breasted Martin (P. chalybea)--form a well supported clade. This group is distinct from Purple Martin (P. subis), which has no particularly close relatives. All four Middle American taxa appear to be good species, although Cuban and Caribbean martins could be merged in view of their similar plumage and low genetic divergence (1.2%). Two of the South American taxa, the Peruvian Martin (P. murphyi) and Southern Martin (P. elegans), are also distinct species. We did not examine the Galapagos Martin (P. modesta) for lack of DNA, but it is likely to be a good species as well. An unexpected result of the study was that Gray-breasted Martin appears polyphyletic; its South American populations are closer to the Southern Martin than to its Central American populations.
20456229|We explored distributions of Asian nuthatch species in ecological and geographic space using ecological niche modeling based on occurrence data associated with specimens and observations. Nuthatches represent a well-defined clade occurring throughout the Northern Hemisphere, but are most diverse in southern Asia where 15 of the 24 species occur and where the lineage is believed to have evolved. Species richness was focused in a narrow east-west band corresponding to the forested parts of the Himalayas with a maximum number of nine species predicted present in these foci. The distributional predictions have a mid-elevation focus with highest species diversity between 1,000 and 2,000 m. Niche breadth and volume were positively related, but accumulation of distributional area (niche volume) decreased with additional environmental combinations (niche breadth). The extent of potential range filling, a measure of distributional disequilibrium, was connected with montane habit (R = 0.422) indicating that montane situations limit the distributional potential of species.
20456230|Estimates of local abundance for declining species provide important information necessary for conservation measures. We estimated the density and abundance of Mountain Plover (Charadrius montanus) in Phillips and Valley counties in north-central Montana in 2004 using distance sampling methodology. Sampling efforts were stratified to include active prairie dog (Cynomys sp.) colonies, an Area of Critical Environmental Concern (ACEC) specifically established for Mountain Plover, and all other habitats. The density of plovers was greatest on prairie dog colonies (7.20  0.42 [SE] plovers/km) and much lower on both the ACEC (1.60  0.31 plovers/km), and all other habitats (0.07  0.01 plovers/km). An estimated 1,028 (95% CI = 903-1,153) plovers inhabited this region in 2004, most (74%) on prairie dog colonies. Our results highlight the importance of prairie dog colonies to plovers in this region and suggest that as much as 10% of their continental population may breed in north-central Montana.
20456231|Three species of Buteo hawks nest sympatrically in the southern Great Plains of the United States. Dietary overlap among them is broad and we tested the hypothesis these species partition their breeding habitat spatially. We compared land cover and topography around 224 nests of the three species breeding in shortgrass prairie in 2004 and 2005. Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) nested almost exclusively in riparian timber surrounded by prairie (95% prairie land cover around nests) and disproportionately used areas with greater topographic relief within prairie landscapes. Swainson's Hawks (B. swainsoni) commonly nested in low-relief areas dominated by small-grain production agriculture but generally used habitats in proportion to availability. Most nest sites of Ferruginous Hawks (B. regalis) were in prairie (78% prairie land cover around nests), but some were in areas that were at least partially agricultural. Ferruginous Hawks had at least two times more sand sagebrush (Artemisia filifolia) around their nests than their two congeners. We conclude that sympatric breeding Buteos on the southern Great Plains spatially partitioned nest sites according to subtle differences in land cover and topography.
20456232|Vocal mimics that produce large repertoires of song types, such as in the Mimidae, have unique challenges discriminating songs of conspecifics from those of other mimids in areas where these species cooccur. We investigated cues used by Northern Mockingbirds (Mimus polyglottos) in discriminating their songs from songs of a sympatric mimid, the Brown Thrasher (Toxostoma rufum). We presented territorial mockingbirds with four playback treatments in which either mockingbird song types or thrasher song types had either a standardized mockingbird repetition pattern (5 repetitions) or a standardized thrasher pattern (2 repetitions). Four measures (time within 2 m of speaker, latency to approach, closest approach, and number of flights) were used to estimate a subject's response to each playback. Subjects responded significantly more strongly to mockingbird song types in a mockingbird repetition pattern than to thrasher song types in either repetition pattern. Responses to mockingbird song types in a thrasher repetition pattern elicited intermediate responses. Thus, mockingbirds can distinguish conspecific conspecific songs from Brown Thrasher songs based on song types alone regardless of their repetition pattern, although repetition pattern still appears to have a role in conspecific recognition. Brown Thrasher song includes a significantly broader frequency range than mockingbird song, which may allow direct discrimination. Our results suggest cues used by mimids in species discrimination are not necessarily the same as those used by human observers.
20456233|Smaller species are less likely to maintain families (or other forms of social groups) than larger species and are more likely to be displaced in competition with larger species. We observed mixed-species flocks of geese in southwest Louisiana and compared frequencies of social groups and success in social encounters of Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens; hereafter Snow Geese) with that of the smaller, closely-related Ross's Geese (C. rossii). Less than 7% of adult and &lt;4% of juvenile Ross's Geese were in families, whereas 10-22% of adult and 12-15% of juvenile Snow Geese were in families. Snow Geese won 70% of interspecific social encounters and had higher odds of success against Ross's Geese than against individuals of their own species. The larger Snow Geese maintain families longer than Ross's Geese, which probably contributes to their dominance over Ross's Geese during winter. Predator vigilance probably is an important benefit of mixed flocking for both species. We suggest the long-standing association with Snow Geese (along with associated subordinate social status) has selected against family maintenance in Ross's Geese.
20456234|Common Goldeneyes (Bucephala clangula) and Hooded Mergansers (Lophodytes cucullatus) are common cavity-nesting ducks but the importance of fast-flowing rivers as suitable nesting habitat may have been overlooked. We monitored the use of &gt;90 nest boxes installed along a boreal forest river over a 5-year period. A high nest box occupancy rate was reached in the second year (40%) and was maintained thereafter (48 to 55%). On average, 35 nest boxes were occupied by goldeneyes and 11 by mergansers each year. Laying date was similar between the two species but merganser nests hatched slightly later. Both species had similar clutch sizes but merganser nests contained more eggs than goldeneye nests when heterospecific parasitic eggs were included. On average, 16% of goldeneye nests were parasitized by mergansers, and 49% of merganser nests were parasitized by goldeneyes. Density of suitable natural cavities in the area was relatively low suggesting the high occupancy rate of nest boxes may be a response to lack of suitable cavities. Nest box use was positively related to the total surface area of ponds in the vicinity and negatively to distance to the river. Use of nest sites along fast-flowing rivers appears to be an opportunistic strategy and may be dependant on the presence of nearby ponds and lakes.
20456235|Red-breasted Mergansers (Mergus serrator) commonly breed in estuaries, but little is known about their brood-rearing in coastal environments. We measured daily movements and habitat use of radio-marked (n = 17) female Red-breasted Mergansers with broods originating from coastal barrier islands at Kouchibouguac National Park, New Brunswick, Canada from 2002 to 2004. Primary brood movements from nest sites to initial rearing areas were often extensive, averaging 3.5 km (n = 15), since many broods crossed Saint-Louis Lagoon to continental rearing sites. Broods remained mobile throughout the rearing period and there was little difference in daily movements between age class I (days 1-10 post nest exodus), class II (days 11-20), and class III (&gt;20 days) broods. Broods frequented shallow (x = 51 cm, 95% CI: 44-58 cm, n = 191 locations), nearshore (x = 47 m, 95% CI: 33-60 m, n = 157 locations) waters that often supported submergent eel grass (Zostera marina). Broods selected estuarine intertidal regions in Saint-Louis and Kouchibouguac lagoons, as well as wetlands at the mouths of tidal streams. Few broods were found in tidal river and marine habitats. Continental estuarine intertidal, tidal stream, and saltmarsh habitats were preferred by age class I broods whereas estuarine intertidal and subtidal habitats were preferred by age classes II and III. This study highlights the importance of estuarine habitats in lagoons and tidal streams for brood-rearing Red-breasted Mergansers in eastern New Brunswick.
20456236|We compared growth rates of Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) goslings from two dispersed nesting aggregations to those from the large Tutakoke River Colony on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska during summers, 1999 and 2000. Approximately 20% of the Black Brant population on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska nests outside of the four major colonies. Dispersal to these outlying breeding locations is hypothesized as a mechanism by which individuals reduce the negative effects of density dependence associated with major colonies. Growth rates of goslings varied among brood rearing areas both associated with dispersed nesting aggregations (n = 4) and associated with the Tutakoke River Colony (n = 7). Mean mass of goslings, adjusted for age, from brood rearing areas associated with dispersed nesting aggregations ranked sixth, eighth, and ninth of nine brood rearing areas sampled in 1999, and sixth and ninth of nine brood rearing areas sampled in 2000. Mean age-adjusted mass of goslings with the largest mass were 198 and 139 g lighter, respectively, from brood rearing areas associated with a dispersed nesting aggregation than those from brood rearing areas associated with the Tutakoke River colony in 1999 and 2000. Our findings suggest that goslings from dispersed nesting aggregations we sampled are unlikely to have an advantage over goslings from a major colony with respect to survival, adult body size, and recruitment.
20456237|Curassows (Cracidae) are important components of the avian biomass in neotropical frugivorous bird communities. However, their feeding habits and ecological role remain unclear. We identified the diet of wild Yellow-knobbed Curassow (Crax daubentoni) based on analyses of feces and direct observations from November 2001 to July 2002 in a tropical dry forest in central Venezuela. We also analyzed stomach contents from specimens collected in different localities throughout the Llanos region. The diet of curassows included fruits (41 and 49% of dry weight in feces and stomach contents, respectively), seeds (15 and 48%), leaves (39 and 0.7%), minerals (stones, earth; 4.3 and 1.1%), and small proportions of flowers, roots, fungus, seedlings, and invertebrates (insects, Order Coleoptera), each &lt;1% of total dry weight. Curassows fed on 26 plant species from 21 families. When food resources for frugivores are scarce during the dry season (Nov-Apr), 47-50% of the diet was a single (Guazuma ulmifolia, Sterculiaceae) indicating this species can be critical for curassow survival. An increase in consumption of leaves and invertebrates was observed in the rainy season (May-Jul). Most seeds observed in feces (93%; n = 5,408; range = 1-10 mm) were intact suggesting that curassows could have an important role as seed dispersers in this tropical ecosystem.
20456238|We examined the influence of landscape configuration created by forest regeneration practices on distribution of Whip-poor-wills (Caprimulgus vociferous) during the breeding season by comparing relative abundance and space use between forest areas (stands  17 years of age) and regenerating forest edges (regeneration stand  6 years of age adjacent to forest area). Regenerating forest edges contained greater (P &lt; 0.001) abundance of Whip-poor-wills (x  SE = 2.4  0.30 birds/10 ha) than forest areas (0.8  0.11 birds/10 ha). Eighty-four percent of detections at regenerating forest edges were from within the regenerating stand. However, Whip-poor-wills within regenerating stands were detected within 100 m of the forested edge with a greater probability (P &lt; 0.001) than expected by chance. The positive response of Whip-poor-wills to forest edges is likely due to proximity and use of foraging habitats. The relatively high number of habitat openings created by some forest regeneration practices provide Whip-poor-wills with foraging opportunities not present in less intensively managed forest systems. Forest management for Whip-poor-wills should consider harvest strategies that maintain the availability of regenerating patches in close proximity to mature forests.
20456239|We documented the effects of hurricane Wilma (2005) on Chimney Swift (Chaetura pelagica) using data from the Qubec Chimney Swift Survey Program and observations of swift mortality during migration. Hurricane Wilma developed in the Caribbean and followed the eastern coast of North America, moving over areas used extensively by migrating birds. Thousands of birds and, among them, Chimney Swifts, were caught and carried by the storm as far as Atlantic Canada and western Europe. At least 727 swifts were reported dead. Chimney Swift numbers in the province of Qubec, Canada, declined significantly the following year, suggesting adverse consequences of the hurricane on this population over a large area. Roost counts declined by an average of 62%; the total Chimney Swift population decreased by approximately 50%. These results suggest that hurricanes can reduce the breeding population size of some migratory bird species.
20456240|We examined annual and seasonal home ranges of 41 Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) groups from 1997 to 1999 in a Mississippi loblolly (Pinus taeda) and shortleaf (P. echinata) pine forest. Adaptive kernel annual home-range estimates (x = 43.1  6.3 ha) were more conservative than maximum convex polygon estimates (x = 58.4  4.5 ha). Mean non-nesting season home ranges were 15-20 ha greater than nesting season home ranges. Home ranges were smaller during nesting and increased during the post-fledging period. Compositional analysis revealed that Red-cockaded Woodpeckers selected habitats disproportionate to their availability annually and seasonally. Red-cockaded Woodpeckers selected pine sawtimber, pine poletimber, pine regeneration, and hardwood sawtimber habitats in that order. Home range appears to be a factor of landscape composition and inversely related to habitat quality.
20456241|Populations of Golden-winged Warblers (Vermivora chrysoptera) are declining dramatically in eastern North America. Success of conservation efforts will rely largely upon identification and management of suitable anthropogenic habitats (e.g., harvested forest and utility rights-of-way [ROWs]). We assessed habitat quality among three habitat types in central Pennsylvania by comparing population density, nesting success, and productivity among 1-ha patch clearcuts (clearcut area), a 60-m-wide utility ROW (wide ROW), and a 20-m-wide utility ROW (narrow ROW) in 2002 and 2003. Golden-winged Warblers did not use any portion of the narrow ROW that occurred outside the clearcut area. Density (territories/ha) did not differ either year (all P  0.20) between used sectors of the clearcut area (0.47, 0.50) and the wide ROW (0.71, 0.79). Overall nesting success (successful nests/total nests) was not independent (P = 0.012) of habitat type (58% in the clearcut area, 15% in the wide ROW). Overall productivity (young fledged/nesting territory) was greater (P = 0.026) in the clearcut area (2.38) than in the wide ROW (0.57). Our study raises important questions about the suitability of utility ROWs for Golden-winged Warblers.
20456242|Regional droughts have far-reaching, substantial, and easily recognizable impacts on populations and the environment. One component of these impacts that is not widely recognized is impairment of immune function by drought-related physiological stress. We studied cell-mediated immune function of cavity-nestling Western Bluebirds (Sialia mexicana), Ash-throated Flycatchers (Myiarchus cinerascens), and Violet-green Swallows (Tachycineta thalassina) at Los Alamos, New Mexico. There was a dramatic decrease in the cell-mediated immune responsiveness of developing nestlings associated with unusually dry conditions. Adult Western Bluebirds captured in 2002 weighed 7% less than in all previous years and average clutch size for all three species was reduced by 21% in 2002. Nestling body mass was also reduced for flycatcher and bluebird nestlings in 2002 compared to all other years. Survival to fledging age was lower overall during the drought years of 2000-2002 compared to the first 3 years of the study.
20456243|We investigated the relationship between grassland breeding bird densities and both grazing and available moisture in the central Platte River Valley, Nebraska between 1980 and 1996. We also compared species richness and community similarity of breeding birds in sedge (Carex spp.) meadows and mesic grasslands. Densities of two species had a significant relationship with grazing and six of seven focal species had a significant relationship with available moisture. Bobolink (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) and Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) densities were lower in grazed plots compared to ungrazed plots, whereas Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus) densities were greater in sedge-meadow plots compared to mesic grassland plots. Bobolink, Dickcissel (Spiza americana), and Brown-headed Cowbird were negatively associated with available moisture with breeding densities peaking during the driest conditions. Our results suggest that wet conditions increase species richness for the community through addition of wetland-dependant and wetland-associated birds, but decrease densities of ground-nesting grassland birds in wet-meadow habitats, whereas dry conditions reduce species richness but increase the density of the avian assemblage. We propose that wet-meadow habitats serve as local refugia for grassland-nesting birds during local or regional droughts.
20456244|We compared the structure of riparian willow (Salix spp.) habitat and songbird diversity across two regions of the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem: Gallatin National Forest and Yellowstone National Park in the north and Grand Teton National Park in the south. The average height of willows was greater (151 vs. 65.9 cm) in the Teton region, and the average density of willows was greater (45.2 vs. 26.1%) in the Gallatin. The average height of willows was the most important variable explaining songbird species richness and abundance across these two regions. Songbird richness and abundance was greater (6.1 vs. 3.1 species; 11.7 vs. 5.6 individuals) in the Teton region. Larger patch size in the Tetons could be a factor contributing to the higher level of diversity but was not statistically significant. Individual species responses to habitat structure varied based on the nesting height preference of the species. Species that nest above the ground or in taller vegetation had abundance positively correlated with average willow height (Yellow Warbler [Dendroica petechia] P &lt; 0.001; Fox Sparrow [Passerella iliaca] P = 0.001). Yellow Warbler, Willow Flycatcher (Empidonax trailii), Fox Sparrow, and Common Yellowthroat (Geothylpis trichas) all had higher abundances in the Teton sites. The difference in willow habitat structure across these regions is likely influenced by historic differences in elk (Cervus elaphus) browsing in the northern regions of the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem.
20456245|We investigated relationships between riparian bird abundance and local vegetation characteristics and habitat features across the Sacramento/San Joaquin Valley, California. Number of detections was analyzed for each of 21 species from point count surveys over a 4-year period at 22 sites from three regions (Sacramento River, Cosumnes River, and San Joaquin River) in relation to 16 measures of habitat and vegetation composition within 50 m of 184 survey points. Tree variables, including tree height and trunk diameter, were often important, as was specific composition of tree species, especially Fremont cottonwood (Populus fremontii) and valley oak (Quercus lobata). Effects of mugwort (Artemisia douglasiana) and blackberry (Rubus spp.) were generally positive. The median partial R due to vegetation/habitat characteristics was 16% after controlling for regional differences in abundance per species. Comparisons of model results at the local versus regional scale revealed spatial variation in bird abundance was independent of spatial variation in habitat variables. The effect of a habitat variable differed among the three regions for 11 of 16 variables. Models that used one or more of the first three principal components (extracted from the 16 vegetation and habitat variables) had substantially lower predictive ability than models built using individual variables. The results emphasize the importance of both understory vegetation and tree characteristics at different spatial scales. Local vegetation and habitat characteristics are important in explaining variation in local abundance, but there is a need to develop models specific to each subregion.
20456246|We provide the first description of the eggs, breeding biology, and natural history of the Ochre-breasted Brush Finch (Atlapetes semirufus). We found 37 nests over four breeding seasons (2004-2007) in Yacamb National Park, Venezuela. Nesting activity started in late April and continued until early June suggesting single-brooded behavior despite a typical tropical clutch size of two eggs (x = 1.89) that were laid on consecutive days. Egg mass averaged 3.38 g and 11.6% of adult female mass. The incubation and nestling periods averaged 14.9 and 10.5 days, respectively. Only females incubated and the percent time they spent incubating did not change between early and late incubation. Females brooded 42.7% of the time when nestlings were 2 days of age and 20.5% when 9 days of age. Both parents provisioned young at a low rate (3.9 trips/hr) and nestling growth rate (k = 0.45) was also slow. Nest predation rates were relatively high with daily mortality rates of 0.058 and 0.067 during incubation and nestling stages, respectively.
20456247|We provide a detailed report on the reproductive biology of the Red-ruffed Fruitcrow (Pyroderus scutatus granadensis). Eight nests were found between 2003 and 2007 in tropical montane cloud forest in Yacambu National Park, Lara, Venezuela. All nests were near streams in steep drainages. Nests consisted of twigs arranged in a cupped platform. Clutch size was a single egg and the average incubation period (n = 3) was 22.3 days. Nest attentiveness during incubation averaged [ SE] 76.3  1.86% and increased only slightly across stages (early, middle, late). On-bout and off-bout durations were relatively similar across incubation stages. A nestling period of 35 days was recorded for one nest and feather pin-break was estimated to occur at day 19. Brooding attentiveness during the early nestling period averaged 62.5  6.41%, and the adult ceased brooding at about feather pin-break. Food delivery rates increased with nestling age. Food provisioning consisted mostly of insects (66.7%) and lizards (25%) with fruit comprising only 8.3% of the nestling diet at early stages. Provisioning changed to mostly fruit (82.4%) and some insects (17.6%) in late stages of the nestling period.
20456248|Little information is available on nesting of Golden Swallow (Tachycineta euchrysea), a threatened species that occurs only on the island of Hispaniola. We report on six nests discovered and monitored in abandoned bauxite mines in the Sierra de Bahoruco of the Dominican Republic. Nests were in cavities of the vertical walls of these pit mines. Clutch sizes consisted of 2-4 eggs and the nestling stage lasted between 21 and 24 days with both parents provisioning the brood. Three of the six nests were depredated by introduced mammals. We compare our observations of Golden Swallow nesting success to nesting studies of congeneric swallows and emphasize the potential conservation importance of a nest box placement and monitoring program on Hispaniola.
20456249|I report a nest, nestling care, and the breeding season of the Spangled Cotinga (Cotinga cayana) near Sal, French Guiana. The open cup nest was found on 20 October 2007 with a 15-20 days old nestling, 12 m above ground in a yellow mombin tree (Spondias mombin). Nest activities were followed during 4 days, from dawn to dark. The nestling's plumage had a scaled color pattern like that of the female, but was paler gray. The female left the nest between 0600 and 0630 hrs in the morning, and provisioned the nestling 6-8 times a day. Food items delivered to the nestling were mainly bluish to blackish fruits, 6-7 mm in diameter, but also included a 6 cm cricket (Orthoptera) and a 10 cm lizard. The female arrived for a last provisioning between 1630 and 1710 hrs, after which she stayed with the nestling until morning. This and other records of breeding Spangled Cotingas suggest that nesting coincides with the dry season.
20456250|We describe characteristics of nest sites, nests, and the first report of the eggs and incubation behavior of the Grey-headed Bullfinch (Pyrrhula erythaca). We found nine nests in coniferous forest during June and July 2003 at Lianhuashan Natural Reserve in central China. Only the female built the nest, but her mate remained in close attendance. Nests were cup shaped and built on horizontal branches of coniferous trees, 1.3-16.0 m above ground. Clutch size was three eggs (n = 3); the eggs were white in color and spotted with reddish brown. Only the female incubated and averaged 85% nest attendance. On-nest and off-nest bouts (x  SD) were 31  17 min and 4  5 min, respectively. Egg color, egg size, and clutch size were similar to those reported for other bullfinches, but nest materials differed slightly.
20456251|The genus Sporophila (Emberizidae) comprises species of small finches characterized by marked sexual dichromatism, which in birds is positively associated with extent of female bias in parental care. We analyzed differences in parental care in Tawny-bellied (S. hypoxantha) and Rusty-collared (S. collaris) seedeaters. We video-recorded nest activity during incubation and when young were 2-4 and 7-9 days of age. Females of both species built the nest and incubated the eggs alone. Female Tawny-bellied Seedeaters: (1) incubated 59% of the time, (2) had a higher frequency of nest visits than males when chicks were 2-4 days of age, and (3) their visits were longer because after feeding they remained in the nest brooding the chicks. There were no gender differences in frequency of nest visits when chicks were 7-9 days of age, but visits of females were longer than those of males. Female Rusty-collared Seedeaters: (1) incubated 51% of the time and (2) had a higher frequency of nest visits when chicks were 7-9 days of age. Both males and females brooded chicks and there were no gender differences in frequency and length of nest visits when chicks were 2-4 days of age. Parental care in both species is female biased, but the extent of male care is slightly higher in Rusty-collared than in Tawny-bellied seedeaters.
20456252|We review the published information on postnatal growth rates of hummingbirds (13 species), and report previously unpublished records for nine additional trochilid species. The allometric relationship based on the log-transformed data of K (logistic growth rate constant) and body mass has a slope of -0.313 and an intercept of -0.346 (n = 22; R = 0.18; P = 0.049). The allometric relationship has a slope of -0.366 and an intercept of -0.327 (n = 20; R = 0.30; P = 0.013) if the two Nearctic records are excluded. Visual inspection suggests that higher K-values occur in Nearctic hummingbirds (x = 0.422; n = 2) compared to Neotropic species (x = 0.269; n = 20). We suggest a revival of studies collecting basic life history information such as postnatal growth rates of birds, especially of tropical taxa.
20456253|I describe previously unknown begging calls and displays of a fledgling Rusty-breasted Cuckoo (Cacomantis sepulcralis) fed by a Pied Fantail (Rhipidura javanica) in Singapore. The cuckoo emitted two types of begging calls: (1) 'host-absent begging call' (loud 'tsi' repeated at 1-sec intervals) and (2) 'standard' begging call in the presence of the Pied Fantail (wheezy 'seeee' repeated 1-2 times/sec). The fledgling also performed the 'wing-shake begging' display, i.e., it raised one of its wings at a time towards the approaching Pied Fantail. This display was similar to that of the best studied brood parasite, the Common Cuckoo (Cuculus canorus). The structure of both types of begging calls of the Rusty-breasted Cuckoo was different in comparison to the Common Cuckoo and relatively more similar to some other closely related species of the genus Cacomantis.
20456254|Recent observations of the Red Owl (Tyto soumagnei) in Madagascar demonstrated that it inhabits dry deciduous forest, and roosts on rock ledges and in cave entrances in the extreme north of the island. We observed a Red Owl at a sinkhole site in the Rserve Spciale d'Ankarana, found evidence of its use of an additional cave, and collected its pellets in three separate dry seasons between 2000 and 2003. Tsingy tufted-tailed rats (Eliurus antsingy) constituted almost 50% of the total prey mass of Red Owls at Ankarana. Their diet at Ankarana differed from that of Red Owls from Masoala in the humid northeast of Madagascar, as the Ankarana pellets contained insects, frogs, and numerous geckos. Red Owls appear to consume more native than introduced rodents and do not appear to prey upon birds or bats like other large owls on the island. Forest degradation could reduce densities of tufted-tailed rats and could be a conservation threat to this owl.
20456255|I examined bird population responses to a managed forested landscape resulting from management for Ruffed Grouse (Bonasus umbellus) habitat in central Pennsylvania during three consecutive springs, 2005-2007. The number of bird species increased from 2001-2002 (n = 40) to 2005-2007 (n = 46). Abundance of all species combined declined (0.10  P  0.05), perhaps because the area was more heterogenous in 2001-2002 than in 2005-2007. Red-eyed Vireo (Vireo olivaceus) was the most common species in both 2001-2002 and 2005-2007. Six of the 20 common species were detected only in the treated sector in both periods; none was specific to the reference sector. Despite increased forest maturation, no populations of early successional bird species declined (P  0.05) between periods, but populations of three other species did. Management of the Barrens Grouse Habitat Management Area for Ruffed Grouse habitat did not have a profound effect on bird populations from 2001-2002 to 2005-2007 subsequent to the last cutting cycle.
20456256|The choice of fruits by an avian frugivore is affected by choices it makes at multiple hierarchical levels (e.g., species of fruit, individual tree, individual fruit). Factors that influence those choices vary among levels in the hierarchy and include characteristics of the environment, the tree, and the fruit itself. Feeding experiments with wild-caught birds were conducted at El Tirol, Departamento de Itapa, Paraguay to test whether birds were selecting among individual fruits based on fruit size. Feeding on larger fruits, which have proportionally more pulp, is generally more efficient than feeding on small fruits. In trials (n = 56) with seven species of birds in four families, birds selected larger fruits 86% of the time. However, in only six instances were size differences significant, which is likely a reflection of small sample sizes.
20456257|We followed the fate of nests of Rio Grande Wild Turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo intermedia) on the Edwards Plateau of Texas during 2006 and 2007 using motion-activated digital cameras on a subset of nests to evaluate the frequency of nest predation and to identify nest predators. Predation was the primary cause of loss for nests with cameras, accounting for 57 and 65% in 2006 and 2007, respectively. Predation for nests without cameras also was high (69 and 65% for 2006 and 2007, respectively) suggesting the cameras did not increase the probability of nest failure. We documented partial-and multiple-predator events that could result in misidentification of nest predators. Our results provide insight into nest predator communities and confirm that multiple predator events occur with regularity in the wild.
20456258|We sampled 100 Cliff Swallows (Petrochelidon pyrrhonota), just after arrival in Nebraska breeding areas, to ascertain if migrating birds re-introduce Buggy Creek virus (BCRV; Togaviridae) to north-temperate localities in spring. Most birds sampled were previously banded and were known to have used parasite-free nesting colonies in past summers and/or were seronegative to BCRV; thus, they were unlikely to have been previously exposed to the virus in their breeding areas. None of the birds had evidence of viral RNA in blood, as measured by RT-PCR. These results are consistent with other studies that have shown little evidence that migratory birds re-introduce arboviruses to temperate localities between years.
20456259|On 25 August, 2007, a Marbled Godwit (Limosa fedoa) was struck by a Southwest Airlines Boeing 737 at 3,700 m. The bird was identified by examination of feather remains recovered from the aircraft and represents an altitude record for this species.
20616851|Nest defense represents a parental strategy to maximize fitness by enhancing prospects of offspring survival. We used a taxidermic mount of a nest predator to measure nest defense of Eastern Kingbirds (Tyrannus tyrannus) at Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in southeastern Oregon in 2003 and 2004 to test the hypotheses that intensity of nest defense (1) was individually repeatable, (2) differed between males and females, and (3) predicted nest success. We also predicted that (4) intensity of defense would increase with age and number of young, but decline over the breeding season. Intensity of nest defense was significantly repeatable for male kingbirds. Male response was twice as strong as female response during incubation and the nestling period, but nest success was independent of defense scores of males and females. Simple paired comparisons suggested female responses did not change between incubation and the nestling period, whereas males tended to defend nestlings more vigorously than eggs. Multivariate analyses demonstrated strong individual differences were the main source of variation in nest defense. Intensity of nest defense by males and females increased with age of young, declined seasonally, but was not related to number of young. Kingbird nest defense is a repeatable behavior that differs between males and females and, as predicted by parental investment theory, nests of the greatest value (older young and earlier broods) were defended most aggressively.
20616852|We assessed mate fidelity, nest-box fidelity, and breeding dispersal distances of American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) nesting in boxes in southwestern Idaho from 1990 through 2006. Seventy-seven percent of boxes had different males and 87% had different females where nest-box occupants were identified in consecutive years. High turnover rates were partly a result of box-switching. Forty-eight percent of males and 58% of females that nested within the study area in successive years used different boxes. The probability of changing boxes was unrelated to gender, nesting success in the prior year, or years of nesting experience. Breeding dispersal distances for birds that moved to different boxes averaged 2.2 km for males (max = 22 km) and 3.2 km for females (max = 32 km). Approximately 70% of birds that nested in consecutive years on the study area had a different mate in the second year. Mate fidelity was related to box fidelity but not to prior nesting success or years of nesting experience. Mate changes occurred 32% of the time when the previous mate was known to be alive and nesting in the area. Kestrels that switched mates and boxes did not improve or decrease their subsequent nesting success. Kestrels usually switched to mates with less experience and lower lifetime productivity than their previous mates. The costs of switching boxes and mates were low, and there were no obvious benefits to fidelity. The cost of "waiting" for a previous mate that might have died could be high in species with high annual mortality.
20616853|Estimates of community attributes such as species richness, local extinction, and turnover are critical when evaluating ecological restoration efforts. Estimates of species richness based on counts can be biased by variation in the probability of detection among different species. We quantified the effects of livestock exclusion on riparian bird communities using mark-recapture models to account for variation in species detection rates. Specifically, we estimated species richness and other community parameters for fenced and grazed sites with robust design models where closed-captures were treated as mixtures, and then used transition rates to calculate derived vital rates for avian communities. Estimates of species richness based on unadjusted counts were correlated with estimates from robust design models, but counts failed to detect important temporal changes in species richness. Estimates of species richness from robust design models increased at fenced and grazed sites over an 8-year period, but community vital rates were unaffected by cattle exclusion. We examined qualitative changes in abundance of birds in four nesting guilds, and concluded that temporal changes may have been driven by regional dynamics in avian communities. Our mark-recapture analysis allowed us to compare standardized estimates of community parameters between habitats, observers, and time periods after accounting for variation in detection rates. Robust design models are a useful tool that will facilitate accurate assessments of community dynamics following future restoration efforts.
20616854|St. John, U.S. Virgin Islands, is one of the most forested islands in the West Indies and provides an opportunity to conserve both resident birds and wintering neotropical migrants. We conducted double-observer point counts of landbirds in December 2005 and 2006 in Forest Inventory and Analysis (FIA) plots and National Park Service (NPS) trails in Virgin Islands National Park (VINP) to assess population trends of birds in subtropical dry and moist forests. We recorded 2,270 individual birds representing 35 species at 150 point count stations in 2005, and 3,092 individuals of 32 species at 143 of these stations in 2006. The increase in birds per point from 2005 (15.1) to 2006 (21.6) was due to resident species, 17 of which were recorded more frequently in 2006. The 17 species of neotropical migrants composed 11.8% of all registrations in 2005 and 2006. Subtropical moist and dry forest habitats differed strongly in vegetation characteristics and plant species, but no species of birds exhibited a strong affiliation with either habitat type on FIA plots. Data from NPS trails showed that most migrant species were detected more often in moist, mature forest. The resident Bridled Quail-Dove (Geotrygon mystacea) also was correlated with mature forest. Plant and bird species co-occurrence with positive correlations that may carry a signal of preferred frugivory included Guettarda odorata (Rubiaceae) with Bridled Quail-Dove, and Myrciaria floribunda (Myrtaceae) with Pearly-eyed Thrasher (Margarops fuscatus). Migrant species did not exhibit strong long-term changes in relative abundance since founding of VINP in 1957, but four open-country resident species declined significantly between 1957 and 2006 as the forest matured. Forest maturation should continue on St. John, yielding a bright future for most of its landbirds barring catastrophic hurricanes, pathogens, or invasive plants.
20616855|We provide an inventory of the avifauna of the Pongos Basin, northern Amazonas Department, Peru based on museum specimens collected during expeditions spanning >60 years within the 20th century. Four hundred and thirty-eight species representing 52 families are reported. Differences between lowland and higher elevation avifaunas were apparent. Species accounts with overviews of specimen data are provided for four species representing distributional records, two threatened species, and 26 species of Nearctic and Austral migrants, of which six are considered probable migrants.
20616856|The abundance of wood cavities is thought to be a limiting factor for bird species that depend on these cavities for nesting. Thus, it is expected that number of cavity adopters correlates with number of cavity excavators across communities. We used available published data to compare composition and richness of cavity adopters and cavity excavators across seven forest localities in Costa Rica. Species richness and composition of cavity excavator and cavity adopter bird assemblages varied among the seven forests. Species composition of excavators and adopters was more similar between nearby localities and between localities with similar forest types. Richness of wood-cavity adopters (using mostly cavities created by excavators) tended to increase with richness of excavators. The lack of association between cavity adopters and cavity excavators in some localities may be compensated by high abundance of a few species of excavators. The abundance of adopters and their dependence on forested habitats and on cavities excavated by woodpeckers varied largely across localities.
20616857|Accurate estimates of Black-backed (Picoides arcticus) and Hairy Woodpecker (P. villosus) nests and nest survival rates in post-fire landscapes provide land managers with information on the relative importance of burned forests to nesting woodpeckers. We conducted multiple-observer surveys in burned and unburned mixed coniferous forests in Oregon to identify important factors influencing detection rates of woodpecker nests. We found 21 Black-backed Woodpecker nests and 38 Hairy Woodpecker nests in burned forest, and three Hairy Woodpecker nests in unburned forest. Competing models of detection probability in Program MARK indicated that nest-detection probability differed by nest stage. We found no evidence to indicate that detection rates of nests were associated with survey timing during the nesting season. Raw nest counts in burned coniferous forests may underestimate nest numbers, especially for nests in early stages of development. Black-backed Woodpecker nests were slightly more detectable than those of Hairy Woodpeckers in burned forests, and observers may differ in their abilities to detect nests.
20616858|Lewis's (Melanerpes lewis) and Red-headed Woodpecker (Melanerpes erythrocephalus) breeding ranges overlap slightly, but co-occurrence within habitats is thought to be rare because of niche similarity. Our objectives were to examine factors that allowed for co-existence in two burned pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests in the Black Hills, South Dakota. We monitored 53 Lewis's and 38 Red-headed Woodpecker nests between 2002 and 2005, and compared clutch initiation dates and nest-site selection. Clutch initiation dates did not differ between species for 3 of 4 years. We compared multiple habitat factors surrounding nests of the two species, and only tree and snag densities differed between Red-headed Woodpecker nest sites (65.1  5.78 stems/ha) and those of Lewis's Woodpeckers (48.5  6.06 stems/ha). These results are consistent with the foraging techniques used by the two species. We suggest that habitat partitioning is an important mechanism of coexistence for these two species, but also recommend further research on their foraging strategies.
20616859|We investigated variation in foraging effort (horizontal distance traveled/number of foraging movements), percent of aerial hawking foraging movements (attempted capture of prey from air), mean perch height of sally initiation (height of perches from which sallies are initiated), and mean sally distance (distance from perch to prey) of non-breeding Eastern Phoebes (Sayornis phoebe) as a function of weather and habitat conditions. Only ambient temperature significantly correlated with foraging effort (r = -0.32, P = 0.02), indicating Eastern Phoebes expended more effort in search of prey under colder conditions. Both ambient temperature and distance to nearest water source significantly correlated with aerial hawking; however, the model containing only ambient temperature best explained variation in aerial hawking (r = 0.38, P = 0.008), indicating Eastern Phoebes attempted to hawk more prey from air at warmer temperatures. Mean perch height of sally initiation did not correlate (P > 0.05) with ambient temperature, wind speed, or vegetative density and dispersion. Mean sally distance did not correlate (P > 0.05) with ambient temperature, wind speed, or mean perch height of sally initiation but the natural log of sally distance correlated inversely (r = -0.48, P = 0.0004) with vegetative density and dispersion. The manner in which Eastern Phoebes alter foraging behaviors under varying environmental conditions, in conjunction with physiological adaptations, may be an important factor allowing this species to winter at higher latitudes than most other North American tyrant flycatchers and forage in multiple habitats.
20616860|Perch-sites are a necessary component of Loggerhead Shrike (Lanius ludovicianus) foraging habitat, yet little is known about the influence of perch characteristics on perch use. We hypothesized that Loggerhead Shrikes would selectively forage from taller, bare perches with less foliar obstruction to potentially increase prey detection rates. Shrikes in our study area foraged from trees 10% taller than those available and on dead or partially dead trees more often than expected (P = 0.005). Deciduous trees with a leafy canopy in summer were more likely to be used when bare in winter. Removing all obstacles to prey detection did not increase perch preference. Shrikes perched more often and for more total time on constructed artificial perches surrounded by dead branches (50% of used; 166 sec/territory) than on treatments with leafy branches (14%; 32 sec) or no branches (36%; 50 sec). Our results suggest trees that are more useful are those with a good view of potential prey and which also provide cover from potential attacks by predators. This study demonstrates the relevance of perch-site characteristics to Loggerhead Shrike foraging habitat and we suggest consideration for perch-site characteristics in future conservation efforts.
20616861|Little is known about how landbirds use urban habitats as migratory stopovers despite increasing urbanization in North America and the importance of the migratory period to annual survival of birds. I examined 15 years of autumn stopover data for three species of migratory Catharus thrushes from an urban natural area in metropolitan Detroit, Michigan, USA. The majority of birds were in good condition on first capture with 59% having more than a just a trace of fat, a higher proportion than reported for passerines at other fall stopover sites. Condition was similar among species, and there was little difference in fat class or mass between age groups. A linear regression of the condition of each bird at first capture and time of capture indicated positive diurnal mass gains in two species and mass loss in the third. Fourteen percent of thrushes banded were recaptured. Lean birds were not more likely to be recaptured than fatter birds and, among recaptured birds, there was no difference in stopover period or mass or fat increases between young and adults. Seventynine percent of recaptured birds gained mass, and mass and fat class increases were significant for all species. These results are discussed in view of the high prevalence of non-native fruit resources and rates of human disturbance at the study site.
20616862|Many species of temperate migrant birds are abundant in winter in the southeastern United States, but little is known about fidelity of migratory species to wintering areas. Mist netting was conducted at Rock Springs Run State Reserve in Orange County, Florida during the non-breeding season from 1997 to 2002. We quantify the first records of winter site fidelity for Gray Catbird (Dumetella carolinensis), House Wren (Troglodytes aedon), and Orange-crowned Warbler (Vermivora celata). We also document the first known winter returns of Blue-headed Vireo (Vireo solitarius) and Ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapilla) in temperate winter areas. Many site faithful birds exhibited over-winter site persistence by being recaptured many times throughout the winter (over 4 weeks), suggesting these birds are site faithful within and between years. Patterns of returns and over-winter site persistence followed trends expected from life history characteristics for most species.
20616863|We studied building characteristics and landscape context to predict risk of migratory birds being killed by colliding with sheet glass on Manhattan Island, New York City, New York, USA. Trained volunteers monitored 73 discrete building facades daily from the Upper East Side to the southern tip of the Island during autumn 2006 and spring 2007 bird migratory periods using a consistent and scientifically valid search protocol. We recorded 475 bird strikes in autumn 2006 and 74 in spring 2007 of which 82 and 85%, respectively, were fatal. Most building and context variables exerted moderate influence on risk of death by colliding with glass. We recommend a suite of building characteristics that building designers can use to reduce risk of collisions by minimizing the proportion of glass to other building materials in new construction. We suggest that reduction of reflective panes may offer increased protection for birds. Several context variables can reduce risk of death at glass by reducing ground cover, including changes in height of vegetation, and eliminating shrubs and trees from areas in front of buildings. We estimated 1.3 bird fatalities per ha per year; this rate extrapolates to 34 million annual glass victims in urban areas of North America north of Mexico during the fall and spring migratory periods. Clear and reflective sheet glass poses a universal hazard for birds, specifically for passage migrants in New York City, but also representative and comparable to growing urban areas worldwide.
20616864|We assessed association of Northern Bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) with surface water (natural and artificial) in the semi-arid Texas Panhandle during May-September 2001-2003. The difference between mean Euclidean distances of nest locations (n = 33) and random points to nearest surface water was -107.8 m (SE = 17.4, 95% CL = -142.7 to -72.9) indicating that nest locations were closer to water than expected by chance. Non-nesting birds appeared to associate with surface water during summer (May-Aug) based on differences between location distances of 83 bobwhites (1,408 locations) and random-point distances to nearest surface water (x  SE = -62.4  17.0 m, 95% CL = -96.4 to -28.4). Our results provide evidence that bobwhites may associate with surface water in the semi-arid Texas Panhandle.
20616865|We investigated variation in morphology of American Dippers (Cinclus mexicanus) in the Chilliwack River watershed, British Columbia in relation to gender, age and migratory habit. Male dippers had linear dimensions that were 2-9% longer and, on average, were 16% heavier than females. Adults (AHY) were the same structural size as yearlings (HY). Yearlings, however, had shorter and more rounded wings than adults providing support for the hypothesis that an increased vulnerability to predation may lead to selection for traits that improve take-off performance and maneuverability. Yearlings also had shorter tails suggesting other selective pressures shape tail morphology. Dippers in this population may be sedentary or migrate short distances to breed at higher elevations. We found no evidence that wing or tail morphology varied with migratory habit or that sedentary dippers, that have higher reproductive success, are larger or heavier than migrants.
20616866|We used field and museum data to describe timing of flight feather molt in the endangered Hawaiian Moorhen (Gallinula chloropus sandvicensis). We evaluated 80 adults captured a total of 107 times at two study sites on Oahu from April 2005 to August 2007. Eighty-five of the birds were not molting, 13 had abraded remiges, and eight of the nine molting adults examined were simultaneously replacing their primaries, secondaries, and upper and lower wing coverts. We also scored molt for 28 Hawaiian Moorhen specimens from three museum collections, but no birds were molting. Molt in Hawaiian Moorhens, which lasts about 30 days, was not synchronous across individuals with molting birds recorded from June to September in the field. We observed non-molting individuals throughout the year including birds we captured and museum specimens. Molting and non-molting birds had similar body condition, as defined by mass/tarsometatarsal length. The flightless period during molt, which likely lasts about 25 days, may increase predation risk, a serious concern in Hawaii where introduced terrestrial predators pose a major threat to moorhen populations.
20616867|We studied the habitat association of Band-tailed Antbirds (Hypocnemoides maculicauda) in four forest types in the Brazilian Pantanal between 1999 and 2006. Birds were sampled with standardized mist nets during 20 months and point count censuses during 14 months. Band-tailed Antbirds exhibited a preference for seasonally flooded forests (Landi and Cambarazal) with no capture or detection in drier forests (Cordilheira and Carvoeiro), even during the wet season. We found no evidence of regular local movements between different forest types. The 21 recaptures were normally in the same forest patch as capture, indicating strong site fidelity and defense of year-round territories. The 10 nests observed were pouch shaped and constructed with plant fibers; each contained two eggs. Nests were found between January and April when the Pantanal is flooded. The unusual breeding season of the Band-tailed Antbird appears to be closely associated with the flooding regime.
20616868|Few nests and eggs for the genus Atlapetes (Emberizinae) have been described. I describe the first nest and egg for the Pale-naped Brush Finch (Atlapetes pallidinucha). The nest was a bulky open cup similar to those for other species in the genus Atlapetes, but differed from that of A. melanocephalus. The egg resembled those of A. albinucha, A. leucopis, and A. latinuchus demonstrating the variability among the genus. Nesting appears to be associated with the second peak of rains of the year.
20616869|I report previously undocumented "fanning: and "crash-diving" behavior of the Least Grebe (Tachybaptus dominicus). I speculate that "fanning" may be used to control egg temperature, and may be related to "rearing" and "wing-quivering" behavior known for some South American grebes. I also summarize information on nests, clutch size, and egg-covering by Least Grebes in the Lower Rio Grande Valley of south Texas.
20616870|Eggshell thickness is commonly used as an indicator of habitat quality and effects of environmental pollution on avian reproduction. We present the first data available on eggshell thickness for Red-legged Partridge (Alectoris rufa) in Spain. We compared eggshell thickness between eggs collected in an agricultural area (wild eggs) and eggs from game farms (farm eggs). Wild eggs had shells significantly thicker (x = 0.32 mm, n = 74) than farm eggs (x = 0.28 mm, n = 89), despite game farm partridges being fed a diet rich in calcium and not exposed to agricultural pollutants. Eggshell thickness did not affect hatching success of wild partridges, and population decline observed in this species cannot be linked to reduction in egg viability due to eggshell thickness.
20616871|Clutch reduction (the disappearance of 1 or more eggs) is often reported in studies examining avian reproductive success and has typically been attributed to nest predation. We recorded clutch reductions at 20 (11%) of 188 Piping Plover (Charadrius melodus) nests at Chaplin Lake, Saskatchewan from 2002 to 2004. Partial clutch reductions were initially assumed to be the result of predation. However, all egg disappearances at three nests we monitored using video cameras were due to accidental removal by incubating parents. Our observations suggest that accidental removal may occur more frequently than expected in alkaline environments, and are likely misclassified as losses due to predation.
20616872|Results of simulated brood parasitism on five Gray Jay (Perisoreus canadensis) nests suggest acceptance of model Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) eggs. This finding is contrary to results of experimental parasitism on four other species of jays, also with little or no recent history of parasitism, which eject cowbird eggs. Given that Gray Jays nest in the boreal forest and earlier in the season than cowbirds initiate breeding, it may be that neither Gray Jays nor their congeners have been parasitized regularly in their evolutionary histories, which may explain acceptance of cowbird parasitism.
20616873|On 27 May 2007 I discovered two Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) eggs in an artificial nest in a wooded fence line on the Tallgrass Prairie Preserve, Osage County, Oklahoma. The artificial nest was one of 20 placed along a transect 10 days earlier and baited with two infertile Blue Quail (Coturnix adansonii) eggs during a study on nest detection and predation. Brown-headed Cowbird parasitism of artificial open-cup nests in the absence of host nesting activity is rare, but has been reported. This occurrence of superparasitism represents the first record wherein more than one cowbird egg was deposited in an artificial nest, indicating that either a single female repeatedly parasitized the nest, or that a second female contributed an egg to the previously parasitized nest.
20616874|Northern Mockingbirds (Mimus polyglottos) are known to reject parasitic eggs at an intermediate rate. However, proximate mechanisms of rejection remain unexplored. Our objectives were to examine the rejection behavior of Northern Mockingbirds in northeast Louisiana, explore if nesting date or egg color of parasitic eggs influence the rate that Northern Mockingbirds reject Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) eggs, and compare results to those of previous studies. Northern Mockingbirds rejected 68% of artificial eggs. Early nesting individuals rejected 50% of the model eggs and late nesters rejected 82%. Early nesting Northern Mockingbirds rejected 72% of light eggs compared to 27% of dark eggs. Color of the parasitic egg and date of parasitism may influence rejection rates of Northern Mockingbirds.
20616875|The Island Loggerhead Shrike (Lanius ludovicianus anthonyi) is classified as a species of special concern by the California Department of Fish and Game. We conducted a breeding bird census of Loggerhead Shrikes on Santa Cruz Island in 2006 based on potential shrike habitats identified using remote sensing. Census results for 2006, along with additional findings, constitute the first quantitative and replicable assessment of the subspecies' status. Population size is <30 birds with 12 on Santa Cruz Island and 15 on Santa Rosa Island. These observations, coupled with comparable surveys on other northern Channel Islands, provide the basis for a species and habitat conservation management plan.
20616876|We describe long-term pair bonds in the endangered Laysan Duck (Anas laysanensis), a dabbling duck endemic to the Hawaiian Archipelago. Individually marked birds were identified on Laysan Island between 1998 and 2006 (n = 613 marked adults). We recorded pair bonds while observing marked birds, and documented within and between year mate switches and multi-year pair bonds. Twenty pairs banded before 2001 had stable pair bonds lasting 5 years with a maximum enduring pair bond of nine breeding seasons. Understanding reproductive strategy, including mate retention, would aid conservation planning and management efforts for the Laysan Duck. Further study is needed to characterize the social system of this endangered species.
20616877|We monitored two migratory oriole species, Baltimore (Icterus galbula) and Orchard (I. spurius) orioles, for information on return rate and pair fate over 4 years. The return rate after migration for Baltimore and Orchard orioles was low (38 and 35%, respectively). Pairs were more likely to dissolve due to non-return of one or both members than they were to reunite or change mates. Pair members infrequently returned to the study site and previous pairs had little opportunity to reunite in the next year. Birds with non-returning mates appeared to take advantage of the first available mating opportunity instead of waiting for the return of their previous partners.
20616878|We monitored return rates of 114 breeding Henslow's Sparrows (Ammodramus henslowii) on mowed and unmowed areas on a reclaimed surface mine during seven breeding seasons. We observed 15 returns (13%) among 10 individuals (9%), all on unmowed areas. No individuals banded on mowed areas were observed in subsequent years on the same areas. Return rates increased slightly when hatching year birds were excluded. No individuals banded during their hatching year were subsequently seen again. Three of 10 returning individuals were observed during multiple years. These observations support previous findings that reclaimed surface mines provide adequate nesting habitat for Henslow's Sparrows. Early-season mowing as a management strategy should be used with care.
20616879|Sprague's Pipit (Anthus spragueii) is a threatened grassland songbird that has been described as one of the least known species in North America. We attached radio transmitters to 19 Sprague's Pipit nestlings in south-central Saskatchewan in 2004 and 2005 as part of a study to quantify post-fledging movements. Eleven juveniles died before leaving the nest (58%) and five survived for at least 9 days. Predation was the most common cause of mortality of young pipits both before and after fledging. Distances moved between days steadily increased but fledglings typically remained within 100 m of their nest during the first week post-fledging. Movement by fledglings after the first week were typically >100 m.
20616880|We monitored one female hack-released Osprey (Pandion haliaetus) across her lifespan and identified her migration routes over a 4-year period (2002-2006) using satellite radiotelemetry. We documented the recruitment of this bird into the breeding population and her lifetime reproductive success. This Osprey was raised at Big Muskego Lake in southeast Wisconsin, wintered at Lake Bayano in Panama (3,877 km south-southeast [163] of Big Muskego Lake), and nested near St. Paul, Minnesota (4,183 km north-northwest [343] of Lake Bayano and 446 km northwest [300] of Big Muskego Lake). The lifespan of this female was 5 years, 5 months, and her lifetime reproductive success was three young over a period of 3 years, 2005-2007, as a breeder. Migration routes of this individual Osprey changed over her lifespan; these changes may have been influenced by weather.
20616881|Red-shouldered Hawks (Buteo lineatus) typically line their nests with fresh branches of coniferous and deciduous trees. We recorded all species of green material present in 63 nests from 2003 to 2005 in suburban Cincinnati in southwestern Ohio, and in 35 nests in Hocking Hills in southeastern Ohio, United States. We identified all trees within 0.08-ha plots at 33 nest sites in southwestern Ohio and 30 in Hocking Hills. Red-shouldered Hawks in southwestern Ohio and Hocking Hills used black cherry (Prunus serotina) branches as a nest lining more frequently than expected, based on Bailey's 95% confidence intervals. Black cherry was found in >80% of nests but present in only 57-58% of the vegetation plots, and composed only 4-5% of the trees in the forests of the study areas. White pine (Pinus strobus), red pine (P. resinosa), and eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis) also were used more than expected in both study areas. Black cherry is a cyanogenic species and may provide an advantage to nesting Red-shouldered Hawks by functioning as a natural pesticide.
20616882|We report a Common Raven (Corvus corax) that learned to turn on a water faucet in a camp-ground at Death Valley National Park, Inyo County, California, USA, and drink from it. Ad libitum availability of water has important implications for survival and reproductive success of desert birds. Ravens commonly exploit anthropogenic sources of water and food; these behaviors are of interest because ravens can be important predators of the federally-threatened desert tortoise (Gopherus agassizii). Our observation is further evidence of the resourcefulness of ravens and challenges involved in limiting access to anthropogenic resources for an intelligent, subsidized predator.
20616883|We report observations of a Glossy Flowerpiercer (Diglossa lafresnayii, Thraupidae) using and maintaining sap wells on three shrubs (Asteraceae: Baccharis arbutifolia) on the east slope of the Ecuadorian Andes. The flowerpiercer rotated among shrubs in a trapline fashion, licking and drinking sap and dragging its hooked upper mandible, and possibly also its lower mandible, along the wounds in the Baccharis trunks, presumably to keep sap flowing. This represents, to our knowledge, the first description of sap well use and maintenance in the Thraupidae.
20616893|The Esmeraldas Woodstar (Chaetocercus berlepschi) is a poorly known and endangered hummingbird endemic to lowland and foothill moist forest in coastal western Ecuador. We encountered 11 new localities, observed two copulations, and found 26 nests of the species from October 2007 to April 2008. We observed the generally accepted descriptions of the female must have come from mis-labeled specimens of juvenile males and were incorrect. We collected the first three confirmed females of the species and describe their characteristics. The correct identification of female C. berlepschi and recognition of the species' breeding habitat should facilitate more effective conservation of the species.
20616894|The poorly known Cloud-forest Screech Owl (Megascops marshalli) is a Peruvian endemic known from only two localities, and its vocalizations have not been documented. We report the first Bolivian specimen and sound-recordings, an analysis of the species' longsong in comparison with other brown-eyed Andean screech owls, and discuss its distribution, natural history, ecological relationships with sympatric congeners, and conservation status. Longsongs were most similar to those of the allopatric Cinnamon Screech Owl (M. petersoni) in northern Peru and Ecuador. Principal component analysis of four vocal characters identified: (1) notable overlap between the two species; (2) some overlap of the Cloud-forest Screech Owl with Ecuadorian, but not with sympatric Bolivian populations of the Rufescent Screech Owl (M. ingens); and (3) considerable, evidently clinal geographic variation in the Rufescent Screech Owl. Divergence in vocal characteristics between the Cloud-forest Screech Owl in Bolivia and other species decreased with increasing geographic distance. The Cloud-forest Screech Owl is now known from six localities from Departamento Pasco, Peru, south to Departamento Cochabamba, Bolivia, and has a disjunct distribution with four subpopulations and an overall extent of occurrence of 12,700 km. Its preferred habitat is pristine to at most slightly disturbed wet montane forest with high structural complexity, dense understory, and abundant epiphytes. It has been recorded at altitudes of 1,550-2,580 m, but locally its altitudinal range is 500 m, where it is narrowly syntopic with Rufescent Screech Owl at its lower and White-throated Screech Owl (M. albogularis) at its upper terminus. Narrowly overlapping altitudinal replacement in Andean Megascops taxa combined with variable location of replacement zones depending on local ecoclimatic conditions suggest that species' distributions are primarily maintained by exclusion via interspecific competition. The Cloud-forest Screech Owl is currently properly listed as Near Threatened, but further research may show it is more appropriately categorized as Vulnerable.
20616895|We used principal coordinates analysis to analyze variation in 11 plumage characteristics of 1,722 Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) breeding at 55 different sites from throughout the species' range in Canada, Mexico, and the United States. There is clinal interpopulational variation in size with considerable overlap among localities. Savannah Sparrows resident along the Pacific coast of southern California and Baja California, and those from along the coast of Sinaloa and Sonora (i.e., saltmarsh Savannah Sparrows) differ from those throughout the rest of their range (i.e., non-saltmarsh). Variation among populations of non-saltmarsh Savannah Sparrows was clinal with the exception of those from Sable Island, Nova Scotia, which are consistently more pallid than birds from the adjacent mainland. Western Savannah Sparrows are more pallid than those in the east. The median crown stripe of eastern Savannah Sparrows is distinct, whereas the median crown stripe of western Savannah Sparrows generally is indistinct or narrow. Savannah Sparrows, with the exception of those on Sable Island, are also more pallid in relatively hot and dry areas than in cool mesic sites, following the general prediction of Gloger's Rule. There is clinal variation of saltmarsh populations along the Pacific coast with those in the north being relatively dark in coloration, and with more yellow in the supercilium than those farther south. There is also clinal variation among the populations from the east coast of the Gulf of California with pallid birds in the north, where vegetation is sparse, and darker birds to the south; these coastal birds have indistinct median crown stripes and little yellow in the supercilium.
20616896|Chickadee songs were recorded in 1997-2000 at 185 sites in 15 Illinois counties to map the distributions of song types of Black-capped (Poecile atricapillus) and Carolina chickadees (P. carolinensis). These species are parapatrically distributed from New Jersey to Kansas. Hybrid zones form in areas of sympatry and chickadees in these areas frequently exhibit unusual (i.e., aberrant) singing behaviors. The presence of aberrant vocalizations and/or the co-occurrence of the two species' song types at a site or by a single individual were considered evidence of a hybrid zone. Four hybrid zones were detected in Illinois along the range interface of these species. A comparison of the distributions of Black-capped, Carolina, and aberrant song types from this and a previous study conducted in Illinois in 1954-59 revealed little change has occurred in the distributions of these two species' song types. This overall stability of song type distributions indicates the northward movement of hybrid zones seen at other locations has probably not occurred in Illinois.
20616897|Cerulean Warblers (Dendroica cerulea) were recorded throughout the 2005-2006 breeding seasons in southern Indiana; 18 song variables were measured and compared between paired and unpaired males. The best logistic regression model for predicting pairing status included song rates and minimum frequency measures of the second section of a male Cerulean Warbler song. Unpaired males had higher song rates and higher minimum frequencies. On average, unpaired males (n = 12) sang 7.4 songs/min while paired males sang 6.4 songs/min (n = 19). Average minimum frequency was 4.0 kHz for an unpaired male and 3.5 kHz for a paired male counterpart. Female and fledgling call notes were recorded during the latter part of both breeding seasons, and quantitatively analyzed. Female chip notes (n = 4 females) had a frequency range of 4.4-8.0 kHz. Two behaviors positively identified during these vocalizations included foraging and response to a mate. Average frequency range of fledgling begging notes (n = 4 fledglings) was 5.9-7.8 kHz. Begging was the only behavior identified with these particular vocalizations. These analyses offer further understanding of intraspecific call functions and repertoire in this species.
20616898|We assessed song rates among male Cerulean Warblers (Dendroica cerulea) in Ozark riparian forest in southeastern Missouri to characterize song rate variation and estimate how many males may be missed during censuses. Average ( SD) songs per 5-min intervals for continuous 4-hr observation periods varied from 3.1  4.8 (mated males) to 36.0  18.7 (unmated males; n = 24 males). Unmated males averaged twice the number of songs per 5-min periods than mated males. Considerable song rate variation existed even among mated males. Song rates slightly declined over the 4-hr observation period. Song rate differences between Cerulean Warblers in Ontario and southeastern Missouri suggest caution when making assumptions about breeding status based on auditory surveys. Average male Cerulean Warbler territory size (n = 20) was 0.9  0.1 ha with 27 of 31 males having at least one abutting conspecific territory. All males (n = 24) were silent for 32.7  21.5 and 21.8  17.4% of the 5-min and 10-min periods, respectively. Unpaired males (n = 5) were silent for 2.9  3.15 and 1.2  1.86% and mated males (n = 19) were silent for 37.9  18.8 and 25.4  16.2% of the 5-min and 10-min periods, respectively. These data demonstrate that when auditory clues are used for detection, not incorporating song rate will result in significant underestimates of density.
20616899|We examined the pattern of American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla) migrating through and arriving in breeding areas in northern Michigan to evaluate factors that may influence arrival of redstarts. Variation in arrival schedules coincided with variation in endogenous and exogenous factors. Redstarts arrived 3 to 7 days later during a year characterized by cold temperatures and low resource abundance as compared to years in which environmental conditions during the arrival period were more benign. Further, males verified as breeding at our site arrived 2 to 4 days before breeding females while males classified as migrants preceded migrant females by 4 days. Finally, older birds preceded younger for both verified breeders (7 days) and migrants (6 days). These findings demonstrate behavioral plasticity within the constraints of optimal migration theory which places high value on early arrival in breeding areas. Our results suggest that some species of long-distance migrants may adjust spring migration rates in response to environmental conditions.
20616900|The origin of hybrid individuals is often difficult to diagnose from phenotypic characters, and many hybrids may go unrecognized because they are morphologically ambiguous or similar to one of the parental species. We describe an unusually well-characterized intergeneric hybridization event in the Parulidae, and use it to validate DNA-based diagnosis of the parental species. Three hybrid wood-warbler fledglings resulting from a cross between a male Black-and-white Warbler (Mniotilta varia) and a female Yellow-rumped Warbler (Dendroica coronata) were discovered in 2000 in the Montral Biodme free-flight aviary. This is the first time these two species have been known to hybridize. Two individuals died as fledglings, whereas one remains alive in the Biodme at present, providing an unusual opportunity to describe the plumage phenotype of a hybrid wood-warbler across age classes and the complete annual molt cycle. Diagnosis of this hybrid would have been difficult using traditional methods, as its plumage appears to be a slightly aberrant Mniotilta, whereas it is intermediate between the parental species in mensural and song characters. We compared the sequences of both mitochondrial DNA and nuclear-encoded intron loci to a comprehensive data base from nearly all Parulidae and confirmed the hybrid's parental species.
20616901|We examined the effect of habitat fragmentation, as well as breeding density and synchrony, on realized reproductive success of male Least Flycatchers (Empidonax minimus). Both breeding density and synchrony were similar in both continuous (6.75 males/ha, 3.40; respectively) and fragmented (4.04 males/ha, 2.11; respectively) habitats, and no morphological or territorial variables differed between males in either habitat. The number of nests containing extra-pair offspring was lower in fragmented habitat (11%) compared to the continuous habitat (50%). Males in fragmented habitat attracted secondary mates significantly more often than males in continuous habitat (44%, 0%; respectively) resulting in similar estimates of realized reproductive success in either habitat. Although habitat fragmentation does not appear to affect realized reproductive success of male Least Flycatchers, we suggest that males of this species demonstrate a facultative shift in reproductive tactics.
20616902|Birds behave as if clear and reflective glass and plastic windows are invisible, and annual avian mortality from collisions is estimated in the billions worldwide. Outdoor flight cage and field experiments were used to evaluate different methods to prevent collisions between birds and windows. Stripe and grid patterns of clear UV-reflecting and UV-absorbing window coverings presented an effective warning that birds avoid while offering little or no obstructed view for humans. Birds used UV-reflected signals to avoid space occupied by clear and reflective sheet glass and plastic. Window coverings with effective UV-reflecting and UV-absorbing patterns as warning signals can prevent unintentional killing of birds from collisions with windows. One-way films that made the outer surface of windows opaque or translucent were successful in deterring bird strikes. Ceramic frit glass consisting of a visual pattern of densely spaced 0.32-cm diameter dots, 0.32 cm apart was an effective collision deterrent. Uniformly covering windows with decals or other objects that are separated by 5 to 10 cm was completely or near-completely effective in preventing strikes. Twice the number of window strikes occurred at non-reflective sheet glass compared to conventional clear panes. Continuous monitoring of windows revealed one in four bird strikes left no evidence of a collision after 24 hrs and, without continuous monitoring, 25% of bird strikes were undetected.
20616903|I evaluated the effects of habitat composition on Lesser-Prairie-Chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) breeding season habitat use in shinnery oak (Quercus havardii)-dominated rangelands. Female Lesser Prairie-Chickens selected nest sites with greater visual obstruction, shrub height, shrub cover, and litter compared to adjacent rangeland sites with most (n = 21) selecting nest sites within 1 km of the leks on which they were captured. Successful nests were in areas with greater visual obstruction and were characterized by greater canopy cover of shrubs than at unsuccessful nests. Nesting habitat did not appear to be limited on the study area and use of shinnery oak-dominated rangelands did not reflect poor or scarce nesting habitat. Management that protects both the shrub and herbaceous component of the shinnery oak community is essential for maintaining nesting habitat for Lesser Prairie-Chickens in east-central New Mexico.
20616904|We studied Rock Sandpiper (Calidris ptilocnemis) breeding behavior and monitored reproductive success from 1998 to 2005 on the Yukon-Kuskokwim River Delta, Alaska, USA. We banded 24 adults and monitored 45 nests. Annual return rate of adults ranged between 67 and 100%. Six pairs of Rock Sandpipers bred at our study site for 2 years, and among these we did not observe mate change (i.e., when both members of a pair returned and each mated with a new individual). Nests were typically initiated by mid-May and 53% of females laid second clutches if first clutches were lost through mid-June. Males regularly incubated clutches during the morning (0800-1259 hrs AKDT) and afternoon (1300-1759 hrs) and rarely during the evening (1800-2300 hrs), whereas female incubation was relatively consistent throughout the day. Apparent nest success (percent of known nests successfully hatching >1 chick) among first and second nests was 19 and 44%, respectively (n = 45). A minimum of 44% of hatching nests fledged at least one young. Males cared for young but half of females deserted mate and brood 1-7 days post-hatch. This first description of North American Rock Sandpiper breeding behavior from a color-marked population complements previous work on this species on the Chukotsky Peninsula, Russia.
20616905|The core of eastern White-winged Dove (Zenaida asiatica asiatica) breeding habitat historically occurred in northern Mxico and southern Texas. Much nesting-habitat loss has occurred in this region since the mid-1900s and several large nesting colonies of the historic complex have disappeared with others currently at risk. Little knowledge exists regarding the precise location of these colonies or their current status. We reviewed the literature, interviewed biologists, and conducted site visits to Tamaulipas, Mxico during May-August 2004 and 2005 to construct a historical account of White-winged Dove colonies. We found references to 77 possible nesting colonies thought to exist over a 50-year period in Tamaulipas. However, 26 references represented alternative names for the same colonies resulting in 51 colonies. We located 31 of these colonies of which 13 were active and 18 were inactive. The remaining 20 were not described in sufficient detail to locate. Brush clearing was listed as a cause for 78% of the 18 inactive colonies followed by weather catastrophes (56%) and overharvest (39%). Collectively, these 3 factors appeared to be responsible for 94% of all colony loss. The historic, large colonies of the past are gone and likely will not return because of these factors, primarily because of brush clearing.
20616906|We studied Sedge Wrens (Cistothorus platensis) along transects in fens of Lake Saint-Franois National Wildlife Area (NWA) to identify key habitat components associated with breeding territories. Stations (0.13-ha circles centered on clusters of locations) occupied by Sedge Wrens had higher lateral visibility (lower vertical cover) and lower shrub cover (lower tall shrub density, fewer shrub stands, reduced length of stands along transects, and greater distance to the nearest shrub) compared to unoccupied stations. Mean lateral visibility was low (<25%) below 100 cm and did not differ between stations, and visibility was greater for higher height classes at stations occupied by wrens. The relative cover of dominant plant species (Carex lacustris, C. aquatilis, Lythrum salicaria, Thelypteris palustris, Calamagrostis canadensis) did not vary between stations occupied or unoccupied by Sedge Wrens. The habitat structure at the territory scale influenced Sedge Wren occupancy as birds preferred stations with lower shrub cover and higher lateral visibility. We found an average of 0.21 Sedge Wrens/ha along transects, similar to densities reported in some regions of the midwestern USA.
20616907|Prescribed fire is used extensively to manage breeding habitat for Bachman's Sparrow (Aimophila aestivalis), but little is known about the effects of prescribed fire on winter habitat requirements. We used conspecific recordings in conjunction with point counts to assess relationships between winter sparrow abundance and use of prescribed fire. Counts of sparrows conducted over three winters were higher (0.59  0.42) (x  SD) when surrounding vegetation was burned the previous breeding season than in areas burned >18 months earlier (0.27  0.38). Year-to-year abundance estimates for individual stations increased an average of 0.39 ( 0.54) individuals per count when surrounding vegetation was burned the previous breeding season and decreased 0.22 ( 0.59) individuals per count when vegetation was not burned. Sparrow counts were positively correlated with percent bare ground cover surrounding census stations and negatively correlated with increases in percent grass cover, grass standing crop, height of grass, and shrubs <1 m in height. Prescribed fire may improve winter foraging conditions for this ground-dwelling species by reducing dense grass cover at ground level. Increased flowering responses that many dominant plants exhibit following burns also may improve winter food resources. We observed color-marked birds (n = 18) in the same areas used during the breeding season and confirmed the maintenance of year-round home ranges by some individuals.
20616908|Wildlife biologists have provided supplemental food during winter to improve post-release survival of Wild Turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo) transplanted north of their ancestral range in Minnesota. We evaluated the effectiveness of this action by monitoring overwinter and annual survival of 140 transplanted turkeys on three supplemental food and three control study areas in 2004 and 2005. Both winters of study were mild relative to historic snowfall levels and temperature. Patterns of mortality during winter were consistent across years with most mortalities occurring on control study sites. Turkeys that had been released in the prior year and survived until January of the current year had little mortality, regardless of supplemental food. The relative risk of death estimated from proportional hazards models for turkeys at supplemental food sites relative to those at control sites during winter was 5.0 in 2004 and 9.7 in 2005. Estimates of relative risk for newly released relative to experienced turkeys during winter were 9.4 in 2004 and 12.6 in 2005. Site-to-site variability in risk decreased during the non-winter period with treatment and control sites having more similar risk levels. Ninety-one turkeys died and mammalian predation was the most common cause of known mortality.
20616909|We studied the diet of 20 Barn Owl (Tyto alba) pairs breeding in three habitats (alfalfa fields, date plantations, and villages) in the same agricultural region in the Jordan Valley, Israel. Small mammals, particularly three rodents (Levant voles [Microtus socialis guentheri], house mouse [Mus sp.], and Tristram's jird [Meriones tristrami tristrami]), comprised 73 to 88% of the 3,544 prey items taken by Barn Owls in the three habitats. Frequencies in number and biomass of the rodent species differed among habitats. The number of bird species, their frequencies, and biomass in the diet were higher in villages than in the other two habitats, and were related to the higher diversity of birds breeding in villages. The frequency of birds in the diet was negatively correlated with distance from the village to open fields. Differences in the diet of Barn Owls among the three habitats most likely reflected differences in the distribution and abundance of the prey items in each habitat.
20616910|The Military Macaw (Ara militaris) is an endangered species with a fragmented distribution and declining populations. Their diet has not been described in detail but the species is considered to be a specialized granivore, and individuals may make seasonal movements in search of food resources. This study examined the diet of Military Macaws in tropical dry and oak (Quercus spp.) forests of Cuicatln, Mxico. We followed macaws to identify diet composition, and quantified the nutritional content of all items which they consumed. Military Macaws used 10 plant species during the year having a standardized Levins niche breath index of B = 0.18. Their diet consisted principally of seeds but also included fruits, leaves, and latex. Foods rich in protein and lipids composed the diet of macaws, especially during the breeding season. Macaws preferred some plant species using them more than predicted by their abundances. Food resources must be considered when managing and preserving habitat to protect this endangered species.
20616911|The foot waggle behavior in Common Loons (Gavia immer) has been postulated to serve primarily as a comfort movement, but may also have a role in thermoregulation. I studied foot waggles in Common Loons during 1994-1996. Foot waggling was most often associated with preening and resting behaviors (81.1%). They were observed also during agonistic encounters with conspecifics, in response to human disturbance (boating), and during social gatherings with other loons. Foot waggle frequency was compared to wind speed, ambient temperature, water temperature, and incident light levels. Wind speed had a negative effect and incident light had a positive effect on adult loon foot waggle frequency. Ambient air temperature and water temperature had no effect on the frequency of foot waggling. Adult loons with young foot waggled 4-5 times more per day during July-August than in May-June, when they were without young. The data suggest the loon foot waggle is primarily a comfort movement, but may also be indirectly involved in attempts by individuals to thermoregulate.
20616912|We studied variation in detection probabilities of several marsh bird species during the breeding season in relation to tidal height (i.e., water level) within several tidal marshes of the northern Gulf of Mexico. Specifically, we examined the influence of tidal height on our ability to detect Clapper Rail (Rallus longirostris), Seaside Sparrow (Ammodramus maritimus), Marsh Wren (Cistothorus palustris), Purple Gallinule (Porphyrio martinica), and Common Moorhen (Gallinula chloropus). Detection of Clapper Rails and Seaside Sparrows increased relative to tidal height while detection of Marsh Wrens decreased. Our results suggest that tidal height influences detection of specific marsh bird species, although these effects may differ geographically. We advocate including collection of tidal height information as a part of the survey protocol for effective monitoring of marsh bird populations.
20616913|The literature regarding the seet call of the American Robin (Turdus migratorius) is unclear as anecdotal accounts indicate it is an aerial alarm. A more recent, comprehensive account indicates it is most likely a contact call. We examined the meaning of seet calls through observations and a playback experiment, both of which support the aerial alarm function of the call. Robins only gave seet calls to aerial predators and many engaged in skygazing, a behavior previously unreported for robins. Robins engaged in three anti-predator behaviors, skygazing, alert, and scanning for significantly more time after hearing an alarm compared to hearing a control. American Robins, like many other birds, probably evolved this call to avoid detection by aerial predators and to warn conspecifics.
20616914|Least Flycatchers (Empidonax minimus) are socially monogamous birds that exhibit clustered nesting behavior. We examined the potential influence of forest structure in habitat selection, and formation of Least Flycatcher clusters within a habitat type not previously studied in this species: red pine (Pinus resinosa) plantations. We documented 10% less understory vegetation, 13% greater canopy cover, and 30% more deciduous trees in occupied than in adjacent, unoccupied, yet available habitat in 12 clusters in pine plantations. Well developed canopy cover and deciduous foliage appear to provide visual cues for Least Flycatchers when selecting habitat for breeding.
20616915|We monitored 124 female Golden-cheeked Warblers (Dendroica chrysoparia) at 133 nests with video cameras from 1997-2002 and 2005-2006 at two study areas in central Texas, USA. Six adult females were depredated by snakes in 781 camera-monitored intervals when females were on the nest at night and exposed to possible nocturnal predation. Daily nest survival was 0.971 (95% CI: 0.959-0.980) and daily adult female predation while nesting was 0.008 (95% CI: 0.003-0.017). We estimated that 14.6% of breeding females were depredated on the nest during the breeding season based on the observed survival rates and assuming females whose first nest was unsuccessful and which survived attempted a second nesting attempt. Females were captured 75% of the times they were on the nest at the time of a nocturnal nest predation by a snake. Predation of nesting females is potentially an important source of mortality for Golden-cheeked Warblers, and warrants further investigation.
20616916|Black-throated Blue Warblers (Dendroica caerulescens) are subject to nest predation by a variety of avian and mammalian species. I present evidence that slugs (Gastropoda: Mollusca) can also function as nest predators. On two occasions, slugs were observed feeding on 6-7 day-old nestling Black-throated Blue Warblers at Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest, New Hampshire, USA. This is apparently the first report documenting that slugs can function as avian nest predators.
20616917|Mixed-clutch nest sharing was observed between an American Robin (Turdus migratorius) and a Northern Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) in Saylor Township, Polk County, Iowa in May 2007. The nest contained three American Robin eggs and two Northern Cardinal eggs, but only American Robin young were fledged successfully. This was not a case of brood parasitism, as both females were observed alternating incubation of the nest. Competition for desirable nest sites might be a possible cause for this type of interspecific behavior.
20616918|Misdirected parental care, or care directed toward unrelated young, has been recorded for many bird species. The Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina) is not known to practice this behavior or allow other species to attend to its young. We observed a Wood Thrush nest with three Wood Thrush nestlings and one Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) nestling being attended by a male Eastern Towhee (Pipilo erythrophthalmus). The towhee fed the young of both species in the nest for at least 5 days and was subsequently observed feeding a Wood Thrush fledgling. The towhee also participated in nest maintenance and defense. The proximate cause of towhee attendance at the Wood Thrush nest remains unknown, but begging calls from the nestlings may have stimulated the behavior.
20616919|We examined King Eider (Somateria spectabilis) brood survival in the Kuparak oil field in northern Alaska in 2002 and 2003 by monitoring hens with broods using radiotelemetry. We observed complete brood loss in eight of 10 broods. Broods survived less than 2 weeks on average, and most mortality occurred within 10 days of hatch. Distance hens traveled overland did not affect brood survival. Apparent King Eider brood survival in our study area was lower than reported for eider species in other areas. We recommend future studies examine if higher densities of predators in oil fields reduces King Eider duckling survival.
20616920|We examined diet composition of Wilson's Snipe (Gallinago delicata) (n = 372) collected along the central Gulf Coast of Texas based solely on upper digestive tract contents. Food items included 11 invertebrate orders, one invertebrate class, and eight plant genera. Oligochaetes were the predominant food throughout the non-breeding period, but snipe consumed fewer (P = 0.021) earthworms in spring than in fall. Aquatic insects were frequently consumed by snipe and during spring represented approximately the same proportion of the diet as earthworms. Plant foods consisted almost entirely of seeds and comprised 9.7-26.8% of the diet throughout the non-breeding period. Wilson's Snipe consumed dipteran larvae more often during spring than fall (P = 0.056). Female snipe consumed crustaceans during spring (14.8%), while only trace amounts were found in the diet of male snipe. Differences in the diet of Wilson's Snipe between males and females were probably related to differences in habitat use as well as availability of invertebrates throughout the non-breeding period.
20616921|We used data collected during 1995-2007 at the only Wildlife Rehabilitation Center on Tenerife Island (Canary Islands) to quantify entanglement mortality of owls. At least 66 of 1,206 Long-eared (Asio otus) and 5 of 231 Barn (Tyto alba) owls admitted to the Wildlife Rehabilitation Center were entangled in burr bristlegrass (Setaria adhaerens). Twelve (18.2%) of the 66 Long-eared Owls died as a result of entanglement while one of five Barn Owls died. A higher incidence of entanglement occurred during summer, coinciding with seed-head ripening and dispersing recently-fledged owls. Velvety plumage may be an important cost for owls, and responsible for owls acting as seed dispersers.
20616922|We monitored provisioning behavior at 18 Bobolink (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) nests during 240.5 min of videotape data from June to July 2006, and observed 64 nest visits by adults while nestlings were fitted with neck ligatures. Adults pecked or pulled at the ligatures, often aggressively, at 72% of nests (n = 18) and 52% of visits (n = 64). These behavioral responses by adults indicate the neck ligature technique is more invasive than previously believed. We documented no mortality as a result of ligature placement, but researchers should minimize the time that ligatures are in place to reduce stress to both parents and nestlings.
20616932|I examined the temporal pattern of migration and tree species preferences of Yellow-rumped Warblers (Dendroica coronata) in relation to tree and food phenology across three spring seasons (2001-2003) at a migration stopover site in east-central Illinois, USA. Foraging Yellow-rumped Warblers used tree species in relation to the date that trees initiated bud break and the date caterpillars were most abundant in trees. The first arrival date of Yellowrumped Warblers at the stopover site varied with date of bud break; duration of migration through the stopover site ranged from 31 to 47 days. The earliest Yellow-rumped Warbler migrants observed arrived at the stopover site before appearance of many arthropods, and foraged on the temporarily abundant adult stage of the hackberry psyllid (Pachypsylla spp. [Fletcher] [Homoptera]). Later migrants switched to foraging for caterpillars. The proportions of foraging observations among tree species were similar across all 3 years and, each year, tree species used by Yellow-rumped Warblers diversified as spring progressed. Yellow-rumped Warblers are short-distance migrants (most winter in the southern United States); my results indicate these birds may have an advantage over long-distance migrants in view of global climate change as they can arrive early at stopover habitats and exploit resources when they are most available.
20616933|We examined habitat characteristics associated with Cerulean Warblers (Dendroica cerulea) in breeding areas on the Cumberland Plateau in eastern Kentucky. Cerulean Warbler distribution was examined in 2004 within a large forest stand and no differences were found between occupied and unoccupied areas. We examined differences between preferred song perches and random points in 2005, and identified three potentially important predictors of Cerulean Warbler habitat: large diameter trees, east-facing aspect, and high shrub cover. Cerulean Warbler habitat selection on the Cumberland Plateau appears to be similar to other well-studied portions of the breeding range. Conservation and management efforts directed toward establishing and protecting large tracts of mature forest, especially those on east-facing slopes, should be a reasonable approach to managing Cerulean Warbler populations in this area.
20616934|We studied nest-site selection and nest survival of early successional birds at the Barrens Grouse Habitat Management Area in central Pennsylvania in 2006 and 2007. We compared vegetation at nests to that at sites 30 m distant to examine microhabitat characteristics related to nest-site selection and which characteristics were associated with nest survival. Daily nest survival probability was 0.968  0.006 (SE) for Chestnut-sided Warblers (Dendroica pensylvanica), 0.935  0.014 for Field Sparrows (Spizella pusilla), 0.955  0.011 for Indigo Buntings (Passerina cyanea), and 0.960  0.005 for all species combined. Nest-site selection was best characterized by high woody stem density for Chestnut-sided Warblers, Indigo Buntings, and all species combined. Nest survival increased with woody stem density, indicating that nest-site preferences may be adaptive. Ground cover best predicted nest placement for Field Sparrows but no measured variable affected nest survival for this species. We suggest that severe defoliation by gypsy moths (Lymantria dispar) in 2007 had little effect on nest predation risk for early successional birds.
20616935|Anecdotal evidence suggests the endangered Great Hornbill (Buceros bicornis) needs mature, large old-growth trees for nesting. We tested this hypothesis by measuring vegetation characteristics at 24 nest sites in southern India and compared these data with that obtained from equal numbers of unused forest sites. Characteristics significantly different from surrounding forest at hornbill nesting sites were several properties related to size of trees. The nesting habitat characteristics of the species stress the importance of mature forests with emergent trees for nests of the Great Hornbill. Trees used by Great Hornbills for nests, compared to unused trees, averaged 18.5 m taller, 0.85 m greater in diameter, and emerged more above the forest canopy by 12.7 m. Canopy height, canopy cover, and number of large trees >75 cm DBH were greater at nest sites than at unused sites by 5.79 m, 3.15%, and 1.63 trees, respectively.
20616936|We examined nesting habitat use of Common Eiders (Somateria mollissima dresseri) breeding on Stratton Island, Maine in 2004 and 2005. Eiders generally avoided low-lying, open vegetation, and nested in dense, structurally complex habitats. The three most common habitat types used were Asiatic bittersweet (Celastrus orbiculata) patches, red raspberry (Rubus idaeus) thickets, and forest (primarily Malus pumila and Prunus virginiana). Nest densities were highest in bittersweet (> 500 nests/ha). Eiders had little nest predation by Larus gulls, and apparent nest success was high in all three habitats (bittersweet: 82-89%, raspberry: 87%, forest: 58-72%). Eiders appeared to select nest sites adaptively to avoid detection or access by predators, although other factors such as nest microclimate, female quality or condition, and energetic demands during incubation may also be important.
20616937|I found 15 nests of the Silky-tailed Nightjar (Caprimulgus sericocaudatus mengeli) from 1994 to 2004 at Cocha Cashu Biological Station, Manu National Park, Per. Females and males shared incubation and brooding duties with females on the nest during the day and males on at night. Nest relief occurred between 0300-0600 and 1800-2100 hrs. Two-egg clutches were placed on bare ground or on leaf-litter in more mature strands of forest. The semi-precocial young were mobile within 24 hrs of hatching and remained in the area with an adult through the fledgling stage. Both males and females feigned injury during incubation and brooding if disturbed. Three nesting sites were used for 5 years and another for 10 years, suggesting strong site fidelity and possibly a strong pair bond among long-lived individuals.
20616938|I monitored Great Tinamou (Tinamus major) clutches between February and May 2000-2002 at La Selva Biological Station in Costa Rica, and describe observations on incubation behavior and nest attendance. Incubation lasted 17 days and began after the clutch was completed. Nest attendance during monitoring was high: birds were incubating during 249 nest checks at all incubation stages. Only five of 18 incubating birds that were monitored (34,282 min) with video and photographic cameras left the nest for a combined 257 min. There was no pattern to time of day or length of time when incubating birds left the nest. DNA from seven incubating birds was used to identify gender and all were males. All birds that sat on clutches defended their eggs and subsequent chicks, but were not recorded standing up to turn their eggs. High nest attendance and reduced parental activity at the nest may reduce nest detection by predators.
20616939|We present the first detailed information on egg laying, egg temperature (
20616940|We examined the spatial ecology of breeding Least Bitterns (Ixobrychus exilis) on Squaw Creek National Wildlife Refuge in northwest Missouri using radiotelemetry. We collected 1,585 locations for 60 individuals (28 males, 32 females) during 23 May-2 August 2005 and 6 June-18 July 2006. Pooled data for both males and females, and both years resulted in mean 50 and 95% fixed kernel home range use distributions of 37.6 (n = 25) and 223.2 ha (n = 25) for all individuals with 30 locations. The mean maximum distance traveled between telemetry observations was 2,147.1 m (n = 28). There were no differences in home range size or mobility between male and female Least Bitterns, although there were great variations between years with birds in 2006 using home ranges five times larger than those in 2005. Habitat use was disproportionate to availability with birds using sites with cattail (Typha spp.) and arrowhead (Sagittaria spp.) to a greater extent than available in both 2005 and 2006. One of eight pairs monitored successfully reared young, while females of seven other pairs renested with new mates. Apparent nesting success was low due to severe weather events and nest depredation. We did not observe double brooding. Our study demonstrates that Least Bitterns are capable of using much larger home ranges than previously observed.
20616941|We studied the distribution of birds breeding within five ecological landforms in Yukon-Charley Rivers National Preserve, a 10,194-km roadless conservation unit on the Alaska-Canada border in the boreal forest zone. Passerines dominated the avifauna numerically, comprising 97% of individuals surveyed but less than half of the 115 species recorded in the Preserve. We used distance-sampling and discrete-removal models to estimate detection probabilities, densities, and population sizes across the Preserve for 23 species of migrant passerines and five species of resident passerines. Yellow-rumped Warblers (Dendroica coronata) and Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis) were the most abundant species, together accounting for 41% of the migrant passerine populations estimated. White-winged Crossbills (Loxia leucoptera), Boreal Chickadees (Poecile hudsonica), and Gray Jays (Perisoreus canadensis) were the most abundant residents. Species richness was greatest in the Floodplain/Terrace landform flanking the Yukon River but densities were highest in the Subalpine landform. Species composition was related to past glacial history and current physiography of the region and differed notably from other areas of the northwestern boreal forest. Point-transect surveys, augmented with auxiliary observations, were well suited to sampling the largely passerine avifauna across this rugged landscape and could be used across the boreal forest region to monitor changes in northern bird distribution and abundance.
20616942|Avian communities can benefit from reconstructed herbaceous, strip habitats among agriculture; however, any benefits may be limited by width-dependent factors such as edge effects. We used 2 years of strip-transect surveys to evaluate avian density, richness, and conservation value between non-, narrow (mean width = 8.2 m), and wide (mean width = 40.7 m) field borders on intensive row-cropped field margins in the agriculture-dominated Mississippi Alluvial Valley. Wide field borders supported two times more birds (7.0 birds/0.2 ha) than narrow borders (3.6 birds/0.2 ha), which supported six times more birds than no border (0.6 birds/0.2 ha). Mean bird species richness was over five times greater in bordered (0.80-1.10 species/0.2 ha) than non-bordered margins (0.14 species/0.2 ha), but was largely uninfluenced by border width. We documented more bird use of agricultural fields and wooded fencerows adjacent to bordered than non-bordered margins. Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) and Dickcissels (Spiza americana) had the strongest positive response to field border presence and width. Wide borders attracted high densities (2.0 birds/0.2 ha) of Dickcissels, an edge-sensitive species, suggesting the conservation potential of herbaceous vegetation patches <50 m of wooded edges for grassland birds. Extensive implementation of field borders, particularly of enhanced width, may contribute substantially to grassland bird conservation strategies in intensive, agricultural landscapes, although confirmation of these benefits requires additional demographic information.
20616943|Detailed accounts of molt and breeding cycles remain elusive for the majority of resident tropical bird species. We used data derived from a museum review and 12 years of banding data to infer breeding seasonality, molt patterns, and age and gender criteria for 27 common landbird species in northeastern Costa Rica. Prealternate molts appear to be rare, only occurring in one species (Sporophila corvina), while presupplemental molts were not detected. Most of our study species (70%) symmetrically replace flight feathers during the absence of migrant birds; molting during this period may limit resource competition during an energetically taxing phase of the avian life-cycle.
20616944|We categorized and quantified the complete vocal repertoires of breeding adult auklets (Aethiini, 5 species) in their breeding areas to provide a baseline for comparative study of the structure and function of vocalizations within this monophyletic group of seabirds. We recognized 22 call types across species and 3-5 call types for each species. Calls were characterized by one to five frequency modulated, harmonically rich note types arranged sequentially in varied combinations. Frequency attributes varied more than temporal attributes within and across species. Repertoires and display complexity of nocturnal and diurnal species did not differ consistently. We recognized two major forms of vocal display: alternating arrangement of note types (Cassin's Auklet [Ptychoramphus aleuticus] and Parakeet Auklet [Aethia psittacula]); and sequentially graded arrangement of note types (Least Auklet [A. pusilla] and Whiskered Auklet [A. pygmaea]). One species' repertoire (Crested Auklet [A. cristatella]) was composed of a mix of the two forms of display. There were vocal homologies in frequency modulation of notes, arrangement of notes, and note type composition of displays. Our analysis revealed vocal similarities between: (1) two species not normally grouped together (Cassin's and Parakeet auklets); and (2) Whiskered and Crested auklets, which have been suggested previously to be closely related.
20616945|We studied foraging behavior of Tufted Tit-Tyrants (Anairetes parulus) in Matorral (shrubland) habitat of northcentral Chile. This species is a generalist insectivore feeding in most shrubs of Matorral habitat at our study site, although they favored three of the dominant plant species. Their foraging is typical of small tyrannid flycatchers, using rapid perch gleans coupled with hover gleans and supplemented by flycatching. They use relatively long search periods (3-5 sec) followed by rapid gleans, which is typical for small tyrannids. Their active foraging (3.1  1.8 prey attacks/min) coupled with a longer search time distinguishes them from parids or regulids of the Holarctic with which they often are compared. They generally forage singly or in pairs and aggressively defend what appears to be foraging territories in winter and summer. Densities of Tufted Tit-Tyrants at our study site were higher than reported in other studies from Chile and Argentina, presumably reflecting resource availability.
20616946|We developed time-activity budgets for 286 Yellow-bellied Sapsuckers (Sphyrapicus varius) from October 2005/2006 to March 2006/2007 in east Texas bottomland hardwood forests. Behaviors were similar between genders and study sites (P > 0.05), but varied (P = 0.008) between years. Sapsuckers spent more time foraging upon arrival in wintering areas and during morning throughout the study periods. Deviation from monthly average low temperature was an important (P = 0.038) covariate during the second study year, when sapsuckers increased time spent foraging during colder than average temperatures and increased time perching on days with warmer than average temperatures. Sapsuckers partitioned about half their time foraging (early in the day) and half their time perching (later in the day). Sapsuckers may have little physiological need for drastic behavioral adjustments to successfully meet nutritional demands during winter in areas with mild climates.
20616947|We studied summer use of high elevation lakes by American Dippers (Cinclus mexicanus) in the Trinity Alps Wilderness, California by conducting repeated point-count surveys at 16 study lakes coupled with a 5-year detailed survey of all available aquatic habitats in a single basin. We observed American Dippers during 36% of the point-count surveys and found birds at 10 of 16 study lakes. Over 90% of the American Dipper sightings were in lentic habitats in Deep Creek Basin. Bird presence at a lake was positively correlated with steep rocky littoral zones and high densities of caddisfly (Trichoptera) larvae. We also observed numerous successful foraging bouts on juvenile life stages of lentic-breeding amphibians. We did not find any nests at the lakes but did observe juvenile dippers. American Dippers are highly adapted to flowing waters, and our findings coupled with incidental observations from the literature and other researchers suggests that high elevation lentic waterbodies have been largely overlooked as a seasonal niche for migrant dippers.
20616948|There are few published data on annual survival and no reports of lifetime reproduction for breeding Cooper's Hawks (Accipiter cooperii). Breeding males (n = 105) in central and southeastern Wisconsin had an annual mortality rate of 19%, or a survival rate of 81% for birds 10 years of age. We did not detect significant differences in mortality rates between urban and rural habitats, nor between the earlier 13 years and later 13 years of this study. Male Cooper's Hawks produced from zero to 32 nestlings during their lifetimes. Body mass or size appeared unrelated to annual survivorship and lifetime reproduction, although lifetime reproduction was correlated strongly with longevity of breeding males. Fifteen of 66 males (23%) produced most (53%) of the nestlings. Our studies occurred in an area where breeding populations may be increasing with some of the highest reported productivity indices and nesting densities for this species. Habitat used for nesting on our Wisconsin study areas may be less important for survivorship and lifetime reproduction than acquisition of a nesting area in which a male will breed throughout his life.
20616949|Linnaeus (1766) proposed Certhia pinus based on two different entities, the Blue-winged Warbler (Vermivora pinus) and the Pine Warbler (Dendroica pinus). The confusion was noted by Wilson (1808-1814) who restricted Latham's (1790) Sylvia pinus, based on C. pinus, to the Pine Warbler (in 1811) and proposed, as a new species (in 1810), S. solitaria, for the Blue-winged Warbler. Wilson's effective lectotypification, long ignored, following which Bonaparte (1824) unequivocally restricted C. pinus to the Pine Warbler, has resulted in misapplication of C. pinus. The correct name of the Pine Warbler should be Dendroica pinus (Linnaeus) and not D. pinus (Wilson) as in modern lists. Wilson's Sylvia solitaria is unfortunately preoccupied by Sylvia solitaria Lewin 1808 (= Origma solitaria, the Rockwarbler of Australia). A new scientific name is provided here for the Blue-winged Warbler because no other is available.
20616950|New data are presented on the phylogenetically informative plantaris muscle in the Drepanidini. The primitive condition (presence) corroborates the basal placement of the creepers of the genera Oreomystis and Paroreomyza. The derived condition of the plantaris (absence) was found in the Hawaii Creeper (Loxops mana), previously considered by some to be congeneric with Oreomystis, and agrees with other evidence placing that species in Loxops. The Hawaii Akepa (L. coccineus), Anianiau (L. parvus), and Kauai Amakihi (L. stejnegeri) also lack the plantaris. This condition still appears to define a monophyletic group within the Drepanidini.
20616951|The genus Thryothorus is wide spread in the Neotropics and nesting information is known for 85% of the species. I found four nests of the Moustached Wren (Thryothorus genibarbis) that were dome and bulky ball-like structures with a side entrance. All nests contained two white eggs with reddish-brown blotches. Daily nest attentiveness was 58.0% and average egg temperature was 32.5 C. Incubation behavior varied among nests and also throughout the incubation period, especially during early stages.
20616952|I describe nests and eggs of the White-bellied Seedeater (Sporophila leucoptera) in Brazil. Nests (n = 5) were cup-shaped and built of thin grass roots and spider web silk with thin walls allowing eggs and young to be seen through them. Nests were in trees (2.5-4.5 m above ground) and close to water. Eggs (n = 3) were white with black and brown spots concentrated at the large end and measured 19.2  13.0 (1.7 g), 18.7  13.3 (1.8 g), and 18.8  13.9 mm (1.8 g). Both parents fed nestlings, but only females incubated. The White-bellied Seedeater is not presently endangered, but many local populations have been extirpated because of intense commercial trapping and habitat loss. Additional knowledge on the ecology and breeding biology of seedeaters is urgently needed for development of effective conservation plans.
20616953|Pogonotriccus bristle tyrants are a small group of flycatchers for which few data on nest architecture are available. I describe the nest of Marble-faced Bristle Tyrant (P. ophthalmicus) from eastern Ecuador. The nest was an oven-shaped, mossy ball with a hooded side entrance attached by the back to the trunk of a large tree. I discuss aspects of nest architecture, composition, and placement which may prove useful for resolving phylogenetic hypotheses within the Leptopogon-Pogonotriccus-Pseudotriccus clade of pipromorphine flycatchers. These characters, in particular nest attachment and construction, support a close relationship between Pogonotriccus, Pseudotriccus, and Corythopis. The switch from draping material to stuffing material during construction may be a key innovation uniting these genera.
20616954|The Black-cheeked Ant Tanager (Habia atrimaxillaris) is endemic to the Osa Peninsula on the south Pacific coast of Costa Rica. There is little knowledge of the natural history and especially the reproductive habits of this species. We describe the nest and eggs of the Black-cheeked Ant Tanager based on observations of three nests near Puerto Jimnez, Puntarenas, Costa Rica. The nests and eggs were similar to other species of Habia supporting previous work suggesting relationships within Habia.
20616955|Reports of adoption in birds are widespread, but few studies report rates of adoption or possible mechanisms for this phenomenon, particularly in the Order Galliformes. We report incidents of adoption in Rock Ptarmigan (Lagopus muta) and White-tailed Ptarmigan (L. leucura) from two sites in western Canada. Adoption rates for White-tailed Ptarmigan on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, and the Ruby Ranges, Yukon Territory were 13% (n = 16 broods) and 4% (n = 27), respectively, while rates for Rock Ptarmigan were 14% (n = 29) in the Ruby Ranges. Low brood densities may result in lower rates of adoption for ptarmigan.
20616956|Trichomoniasis is a digestive tract disease caused by ingestion of the protozoan Trichomonas gallinae. This disease can be a significant source of mortality. No deaths of nestlings could be attributed to trichomoniasis in Cooper's Hawks (Accipiter cooperii) breeding in urban and rural environs in Wisconsin, North Dakota, and British Columbia. We detected T. gallinae in four (5.2%) of 77 nestling Cooper's Hawks during 2006 and 2007 among 42 urban nests on new study areas in southeast Wisconsin and eastern North Dakota/western Minnesota. All four infected young fledged. We did not detect T. gallinae in 52 breeding adult Cooper's Hawks on two urban study sites, nor in 28 migrant hatching year (n = 24) and adult (n = 4) Cooper's Hawks at Hawk Ridge Bird Observatory, Duluth, Minnesota in 2006-2007. Overall, we detected T. gallinae in only 2.5% of 157 Cooper's Hawks in northcentral North America. These results suggest a low prevalence of T. gallinae in Cooper's Hawks in the northern part of this hawk's breeding range.
20616957|Nocturnal migration is accompanied by sleep loss likely dependent upon the length of the migratory flight. Migrants may minimize the effect of sleep deficit by inserting brief naps into their daytime activities. On 25 April 2006, I observed daytime sleep-like behavior by a radio-marked male Hooded Warbler (Wilsonia citrina) at a coastal stopover site in southwestern Louisiana. The bird likely completed a flight across the Gulf of Mexico a few hours before the observation and departed from the stopover site the evening of the day of arrival. To my knowledge, this is the first reported field observation of daytime sleep behavior in a neotropical landbird migrant. The behavior exhibited in the field was consistent with behavioral characteristics of daytime sleep observed in captive migrants.
20616958|We describe a commensal relationship between Double-crested Cormorant, (Phalacrocorax auritus) and a southern stingray (Dasyatis americana). Three cormorants were observed closely following a large southern stingray in a shallow turtle grass (Thalassia testudinum) bed near Long Key, Florida and feeding upon a small fish disturbed by the stingray's benthic foraging. This represents an example of a commensal relationship in which one participant benefits while the other is unaffected.
20616959|Plant entanglement in North America is reported for 25 bird species, of which 56% are affected by burdock (Arctium spp.; one of 15 plant taxa). To our knowledge, we are the first to document mortality of the Least Flycatcher (Empidonax minimus) by snaring in burdock (A. minus).
20616960|We summarize the history of the varied practices of hyphenating compound English names of birds to highlight taxonomic relationships. English names do not and can not reflect phylogenetic relationships of birds very well, however lofty that ideal. Instead, English names of birds are driven more by tradition than by modern systematics; the consequence is that well-intentioned hyphenation practices misrepresent phylogenetic relationships too often to be helpful. We urge ornithologists to work together to simplify the use of hyphens as one small step towards improved standardization of English bird names.
20616972|We document reproductive life history traits of the Three-striped Warbler (Basileuterus tristriatus) from 146 nests in Venezuela and compare our results to data from the literature for other tropical and temperate parulid species. Mean ( SE) clutch size was 1.96  0.03 eggs (n = 96) and fresh egg mass was 2.09  0.02 g. The incubation period was 15.8  0.2 days (n = 23) and the nestling period was 10.5  0.3 days (n = 12). Males did not incubate and rarely provided food for females during incubation. Females had 57  2% (n = 49) nest attentiveness (% of time on the nest incubating), which caused egg temperature to commonly become cold relative to development. Both adults fed nestlings and feeding rates increased with nestling age. The growth rate constant for nestlings based on mass was K = 0.490, which is slower than for north temperate warblers. Predation was the primary source of nest failure and only 22% of nests were successful based on a Mayfield daily predation rate of 0.048  0.006. Our literature review indicates parulids differ strongly in life histories between temperate and tropical/subtropical sites with species in the tropics having, on average, smaller clutches, longer incubation periods, lower nest attentiveness, longer off-bouts, and longer nestling periods.
20616973|The Greater Ani (Crotophaga major) is the least well-known of the communally breeding crotophagine cuckoos, although it is locally abundant in Panama and northern South America. We present substantial new life history information from 87 breeding groups of Greater Anis at Gatn Lake, Panama, and the first description of their conspicuous, highly stereotyped communal displays. Breeding groups were composed of two to five socially monogamous pairs; no pairs nested singly. Seven groups also included an unpaired individual, which in three cases was confirmed to be a 1-year-old male from the previous year's nest. Groups of two and three pairs were most common (accounting for 75 and 20% of groups, respectively); groups containing more than three pairs were rare and their nests were abandoned before incubation began. Eggs were large (17% of adult body mass) and varied greatly in size (19-37 g). Egg and nestling development were exceptionally rapid: eggs were incubated for 11-12 days and nestlings were capable of leaving the nest after 5 days, although adults continued to feed fledglings for several weeks. On average, each female laid 4.3  0.9 eggs; three-pair groups had larger overall clutch sizes than did two-pair groups. The first 2-3 eggs to be laid were usually ejected from the nest by other group members, and number of ejected eggs increased with group size. Thirty-seven nests (43%) fledged at least one young successfully; snakes (Pseustes, Spilotes, Boa) and white-faced capuchin monkeys (Cebus capuchinus) were identified as nest predators.
20616974|Northern Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) populations have been declining throughout their range, but some of the sharpest declines have been documented in the Mid-Atlantic states. We conducted a 2 year (2006-2007) breeding season (1 May-30 Sep) telemetry study in southern New Jersey to collect baseline data on Northern Bobwhite reproductive rates, and nest and brood microhabitat selection. We located 23 Northern Bobwhite nests, of which 21 were usable for survival analyses. Incubation-period nest survival rate was 0.454  0.010 (95% CI = 0.280-0.727). Mean clutch size was 14.2  0.58 (range 10-19, n = 20) and hatching success was 96.1  2.0% (range 86-100%, n = 10). The estimated probability that an individual that entered the breeding season would initiate incubation of 1 nest was 0.687 for females and 0.202 for males. Nest microhabitat selection was positively related to visual obstruction and percentage of litter. Brood microhabitat selection was positively related to visual obstruction, vegetation height, and percentage of forbs but negatively related to percentage of cool season grass and litter. Fecundity metrics for Northern Bobwhites in southern New Jersey appear similar to those reported elsewhere in the species' range. Conservation efforts to increase Northern Bobwhite reproductive success in southern New Jersey should focus on increasing the quantity of available breeding habitat.
20616975|Scoter vocalizations may have a role in pair formation and pair bonding. I compared the courtship calls of male Black Scoters (Melanitta nigra nigra and M. n. americana) using published and archived recordings. Courtship calls of the two subspecies differed diagnosably in duration. In contrast, recordings from different localities within the ranges of each taxon showed no diagnosable differentiation. This finding represents the first indication these taxa differ in characters other than bill morphology and supports recent proposals to treat M. n. americana as a distinct species (M. americana). Vocal displays, in contrast to courtship displays, of anatids have not been used for assessment of species limits in Anatidae. My results indicate vocalizations are a potentially useful additional character in species-level taxonomy of anatids.
20616976|We examined the complex of populations of the Loggerhead Kingbird (Tyrannus caudifasciatus), a West Indian endemic. We separate populations in Puerto Rico and Isla Vieques (T. taylori), and Hispaniola (T. gabbii) as distinct species. Subspecific distinction is assigned to populations in Cuba, Isla de Pinos, and Cuban satellites (T. caudifasciatus caudifasciatus); Cayman Islands (T. c. caymanensis); Jamaica (T. c. jamaicensis); and the Bahamas (T. c. bahamensis) on the basis of differences in plumage coloration and pattern, size, vocalizations, and distribution.
20616977|Songs of individual male Blue Grosbeaks (Passerina caerulea) typically begin with the same combination of elements, but the sequence and number of elements in the latter portion of songs vary. We examined the possible functions of within-song variation in Blue Grosbeaks at the Blue Grass Army Depot near Richmond, Kentucky, USA from 15 April to 31 July 2007. We examined singing rates and song characteristics of second-year (SY; n = 6) and after-second-year (ASY; n = 14) males, and conducted playback experiments (n = 15) to identify the possible function of variation in song length. Male Blue Grosbeaks sang at highest rates prior to pairing, maintained relatively high singing rates during the post-pairing/pre-nesting and nest-building/egg-laying stages, and sang at lower rates during the incubation, nestling, and fledgling stages. These results suggest high singing rates are important in attracting mates and establishing territories, and lower singing rates may result from trade-offs associated with parental care. Males used longer songs during aggressive encounters with conspecifics and responded more aggressively to playback of longer songs. This suggests songs containing more elements signal increased aggression. Within-song variation may be an important way to vary song meaning for male Blue Grosbeaks, and perhaps other males in species with a single song type but repertoires of several different song elements.
20616978|Laysan Albatross (Phoebastria immutabilis) began re-colonizing sites across the Pacific in the 1970s after severe population declines, and fledged the first chick on the island of Oahu in 1992. We report the status of Laysan Albatross populations at Kaena Point and Kuaokala on the island of Oahu, Hawaii and provide new demographic data for this species. Colonies on Oahu were monitored weekly from 2004 to 2008; all individuals were censused, banded, and genetically identified to gender. There was a population of 365 adults on Oahu in 2008 of which 47% were active breeders. The breeding population increased 27% annually since 1991. The high rate of increase was due primarily to immigration with some local recruitment. Recaptures indicate that seven birds were from French Frigate Shoals, one was from Midway Atoll, and 52 were from Oahu and returning to breed; all other adults were of unknown origin. Hatching rate (62%), fledging rate (78%), and overall reproductive success (48%) were comparable to other colonies despite occasional predation. The rate of adult dispersal was high with up to 10% of birds observed each day on Oahu visiting from Kauai. Adults occasionally changed breeding colonies between seasons, and even visited other islands while actively breeding on Oahu. While small, these colonies are at higher elevations and may serve as refugia in the event of sea level rise and, thus, should continue to be conservation priorities.
20616979|Blackwater National Wildlife Refuge on the Delmarva Peninsula, Maryland, USA has been the wintering area of a small population of Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens; LSGO) since the 1930s. Snow Geese primarily pair in wintering areas and gene flow could be restricted between this and other LSGO wintering populations. Winter pair formation also could facilitate interbreeding with sympatric but morphologically differentiated Greater Snow Geese (C. c. atlantica; GSGO). We sequenced 658 bp of the mitochondrial DNA control region for 68 Snow Geese from East Coast and Louisiana wintering populations to examine the level of genetic differentiation among populations and subspecies. We found no evidence for genetic differentiation between LSGO populations but, consistent with morphological differences, LSGO and GSGO were significantly differentiated. We also found a lack of genetic differentiation between different LSGO morphotypes from Louisiana. We examined available banding data and found the breeding range of Delmarva LSGO overlaps extensively with LSGO that winter in Louisiana, and documented movements between wintering populations. Our results suggest the Delmarva population of LSGO is not a unique population unit apart from Mid-Continent Snow Geese.
20616980|We studied adult Peruvian Boobies (Sula variegata) on two islands in northern Peru to classify males and females using DNA-based techniques. We used this information to (1) assess the extent of size dimorphism in this species, (2) identify males and females using discriminant functions of external characters, and (3) validate use of voice as a reliable method for identifying male and female Peruvian Boobies in the field. Female Peruvian Boobies were 19% heavier and their culmens and wings were 3 and 4% larger than males, respectively. A discriminant function that included body weight and wing chord correctly classified 90% of the birds. Alternatively, 88% of correct identification of males and females was obtained with a function that incorporated only wing chord. Whistles were performed exclusively by males (25/25 of cases), whereas grunts or goose-like honk vocalizations were performed only by females (24/24 of cases). The female-larger size dimorphism of Peruvian Boobies is intermediate in comparison to other Sula boobies. Calls and biometry provide a fast, reliable, and inexpensive method for classifying most adult Peruvian Boobies as males or females in the field. We recommend a hierarchical system for classification of male and female Peruvian Boobies: (1) use of vocalizations, (2) use of body weight and wing chord when the bird did not vocalize and was weighed immediately after daybreak or before the first feeding trip of the day, and (3) use of wing chord only when there is uncertainty in temporal variations of body weight.
20616981|We recorded 62 bird species on Clarion Island, Mexico (Revillagigedo Archipelago, Pacific Ocean) during 1998-2006, eight of which breed there, 52 are considered non-breeders, and breeding is likely but unconfirmed for the Red-billed Tropicbird (Phaethon aethereus), Nazca Booby (Sula granti), and an unidentified shearwater. Thirty species are new for the island. A census of the Clarion Burrowing Owl (Athene cunicularia rostrata) in 2002/03 suggested a maximum total population of 850 pairs. At least 46 pairs of Laysan Albatrosses (Phoebastria immutabilis) bred in 2002/03, but the species experienced total breeding failure during our study. This result was unexpected because feral pigs (Sus scrofa) were successfully eradicated from Clarion by 2002; endemic Clarion Ravens (Corvus corax clarionensis), an endemic snake (Clarion Racer, Masticophis anthonyi), and an unidentified ant were associated with egg and hatchling failures. A small colony of an unidentified shearwater could be a recolonization by the endemic and Critically Endangered Townsend's Shearwater (Puffinus auricularis) or Wedge-tailed Shearwater (P. pacificus), which has not been recorded for Clarion Island.
20616982|We investigated seed predation and dispersal by nine Darwin's finch (Geospizinae) species, including species previously regarded as seed predators or insectivores. All nine ate fruit. Eight commonly discarded seeds, acting as short-distance dispersers. Seven defecated viable seeds, being therefore potential longer-distance dispersers. Fruit comprised the majority of dietary items in all four Geospiza species and Small Tree Finch (Camarhynchus parvulus). All except Common Cactus Finch (G. scandens) defecated intact seeds. The highest proportions of feces containing viable seeds were of Small Ground Finch (G. fuliginosa) and the "insectivorous" species Woodpecker Finch (Camarhynchus pallidus) and Warbler Finch (Certhidea olivacea). These two may be more important endochorous dispersers than other species that eat more fruit but are better seed predators. Intact seeds were found in 23% of fecal samples; 50% of the samples with intact seeds had viable seeds. The most frequently encountered intact seeds were of the tiny-seeded, fleshy-fruited Miconia robinsoniana and a sedge, Kyllinga brevifolia. Dry fruit, such as sedges and grasses, were usually crushed but occasionally found intact in feces, and might frequently be dispersed long distances. Seeds of larger-seeded, fleshy-fruited species were often discarded, but may be commonly dispersed short distances. Dispersal of plants by finches is probably more common than suggested by their predominant feeding patterns of seed predation and insectivory, and rare long-distance dispersal could be important for plant evolution and spread of introduced plants in the Galapagos Islands.
20616983|The Northern Harrier (Circus cyaneus) is of major conservation and management concern in the northeastern United States. We studied habitat use of foraging adult male and female harriers on Nantucket Island, Massachusetts among four habitat types: grassland, shrubland, mowed, and burned. Overall, foraging indices were not correlated to nest proximity and harriers foraged significantly less frequently in mowed habitat than in the other habitat types. Management of harrier habitat in the northeastern United States may not exclusively require grasslands, and mowing reduces foraging habitat.
20616984|We compared depredation rates of natural and artificial nests of Seaside Sparrows (Ammodramus maritimus) within winter burned and unburned marsh breeding habitats. Natural nests on burned sites in 2002 were depredated at a higher rate (35.3%) during the incubation stage, compared to unburned sites (13.3%). Depredation rates of natural nests were similar between burn treatments during the nestling stage. Artificial nests exhibited significantly higher depredation rates during the incubation stage on burned compared to unburned sites in 2002. No artificial nest studies were conducted in 2003, but we examined natural nest depredation rates. Depredation rates on natural nests in 2003 were similar between burned and unburned sites during both incubation and nestling stages. Differences in nest depredation rates between 2002 and 2003 may be due to increased rainfall in 2003 leading to higher biological productivity, reduced burn effectiveness and coverage, as well as a change in nest placement by Seaside Sparrows on burned sites. Shrub-nesting species may not be as vulnerable to higher rates of nest depredation induced by prescribed burning because fire appears to only minimally impact woody shrubs, while greatly reducing biomass of herbaceous vegetation.
20616985|We studied orientation-dependent differences in nest box microclimate and American Kestrel (Falco sparverius) reproductive parameters in Idaho, USA. Unoccupied nest boxes facing west were 0.6 C cooler than boxes that faced south or east and had 20% lower relative humidity levels than boxes facing all other cardinal directions. Clutches in occupied boxes that faced southwest had a proportionately lower chance of hatching success (12 of 21 nests were successful), defined as having at least one egg hatch, than boxes that faced northwest (9 of 9 nests) or southeast (9 of 12 nests). The possible link between orientation-dependent differences in microclimate and hatching success, and the question of whether American Kestrels may select for orientation adaptively requires further investigation.
20616986|Tachycineta swallows nest in secondary cavities and build nests made of a mat of dry grasses with a nest cup lined with feathers. The insulative quality of feathers may prevent hypothermia of the chicks and increase chick growth, but also may raise the risk of nestling hyperthermia if ambient temperature is high. The number of feathers added to the nest should vary throughout the breeding season according to ambient temperature. We describe nest structure and timing of nest building of Chilean Swallows (Tachycineta meyeni) nesting in Tierra del Fuego, Argentina. We analyzed the association between number of feathers in the nest and (1) daily ambient temperature during the period swallows add feathers to the nest, and (2) hatching success of eggs and survival and growth of the chicks. There was a negative association between number of feathers added to the nest and average daily ambient temperature during the nesting cycle. Hatching success was not associated with number of feathers at start of laying or at the end of incubation. There was no association between number of feathers and chick survival or between number of feathers and average weight of the chicks when they were 12 and 15 days of age. Chilean Swallows make temporal adjustments to the number of feathers added to the nest. We suggest these adjustments may help maintain reproductive success throughout the breeding season.
20616987|We provide the first description of the nest, eggs, and nestlings of the Planalto Woodcreeper (Dendrocolaptes platyrostris), a secondary cavity-nester, based on three nests in natural cavities and 14 in nest boxes. Nests were found from October to January in 1997, 2006, and 2007 in the humid Chaco and Atlantic Forest of Argentina. Planalto Woodcreepers used natural cavities and nest boxes 40-60 cm deep with entrance diameters of 5-12 cm. They selected the deepest nest boxes available. Three or four white eggs were laid on a bed of bark flakes and incubated for 14-16 days. Newly hatched nestlings had pink skin with gray down, yellow mouth linings, and large whitish gape flanges. They opened their eyes when 6-7 days of age and fledged at 16-18 days. Nearly all nestlings were infested with botflies (Philornis sp.). Both adults contributed to nest building, incubation, nestling-rearing, and nest sanitation.
20616988|We studied the breeding biology of Purple Swamphens (Porphyrio porphyrio poliocephalus) at Nainar Pond in Tirunelveli, South India from January 2003 to May 2004. Peak breeding activity occurred from the second week of January to the first week of March. Nests were built on thick floating vegetation closest to the bank of the pond. Nesting material consisted of whole plants, stems, and leaves of Eichhornia crassipes, Jussieua repens, Pistia stratiotes, Ipomoea aquatica, and Cyperus rotundus with E. crassipes being most preferred. Nest dimensions were variable. Clutch size varied from three to seven eggs with a mean ( SD) clutch size of 4.5  1.5 and a model clutch size of four eggs. Mean volume of all eggs was 32.3  3.5 cm. The length of the incubation period was estimated as 19.8  1.2 days. Nest and egg hatching success were estimated as 80.0% and 61.1%, respectively, while overall fledging success was 42.0%.
20616989|We found nine nests of the Grey-hooded Parrotbill (Paradoxornis zappeyi) during April through July 2003 at Wawushan Natural Reserve, Sichuan, southwestern China. This report is the first description of the nest sites, nests, eggs, and breeding behavior of this parrotbill, and the first documentation of nestling growth from hatching until fledging. The nests were constructed mainly of bamboo (Bashania faberi) leaves, fibrous roots, and moss by both male and female. Nests were bowl shaped and in bamboo thickets 81-122 cm above ground, and 17-68 cm below the top of bamboo leaves. Clutch size was 3.1 eggs (n = 8 nests) and eggs were oval, pale blue in color with a mean mass of 1.3 g. Incubation and provisioning of nestlings were by both parents. The nestling period was 13-14 days with a hatching rate of 0.52 and mean reproductive success rate of 0.48 fledglings per nest.
20616990|We studied breeding biology, parental roles, and social mating system of the Bay-capped Wren-Spinetail (Spartonoica maluroides), a habitat specialist furnariid, in the Argentinean pampas. We found 42 nests during 2004-2007, two during egg laying, 28 during incubation, and 12 with nestlings. Mean clutch size was 3.17 eggs (n = 29), the incubation period was 13 days, and nestlings remained in the nest for 12 days before fledgling. Bay-capped Wren-Spinetails are socially monogamous; both males and females develop a brood patch and contribute to incubation, brooding, and provisioning of nestlings. Wren-Spinetails are unique among furnariids as they build an open cup nest with a few presenting a loose domed roof. Breeding success of Bay-capped Wren-Spinetails was higher (total probability of nesting success = 0.508) than other species of sympatric passerines because of low nest predation and high nest survival rates during incubation and nestling rearing stages.
20616991|The Spot-billed Toucanet (Selenidera maculirostris) is an endemic member of the Ramphastidae occurring in the Atlantic Forest in Brazil. There is anecdotal literature about this species breeding in the wild, but no data are available about parental behavior and nest morphometry. We describe observations of parental behavior of the Spot-billed Toucanet including measurements of one nest in Ilha do Cardoso State Park, So Paulo, Brazil. The nest was inside a hollow of a Lauraceae tree with the entrance hidden by leaves of Aechmea sp. (Bromeliaceae). The Spot-billed Toucanet, based on our observations and review of the literature, nests in tree cavities between 2 and 7 m above ground and both parents provision the nestlings.
20616992|A variety of bird species have been shown to derive protection from nest predators by nesting in association with more aggressive or predatory species. We provide the first evidence of this interaction for a hummingbird. Black-chinned Hummingbird (Archilochus alexandri) nests in southeast Arizona were found near the nests of two species of Accipiter raptors. Mayfield estimates of nest survival indicated nests within 300 m of active Accipiter nests have significantly higher probabilities (46 vs. 9%) of successfully fledging young.
20616993|Common Pigeons (Columba livia) and their feral domestic relatives nest in a variety of sites, but use of nests of other birds has not been reported. I documented 13 nesting attempts by feral Common Pigeons in seven large compound nests of Monk Parakeets (Myiopsitta monachus) in Cordoba, Argentina; at least three attempts produced nestling pigeons. The parakeets did not directly attack the pigeons, but either made an entrance tunnel or completely blocked the chamber entrances with thorny sticks where pigeons nested, eliminating access to chambers and causing the pigeons to abandon their nests.
20616994|Studies of song and its function in suboscine passerines are rare. We examined spatial and temporal variation in song structure in a wild population of Olive-sided Flycatchers (Contopus cooperi) and tested among hypotheses explaining this variation. Repeatable variation in song type was observed both within and among individuals. More than 10% of territorial males expressed atypical song types, i.e., permutations of sequential missing and repeated elements of the typical adult song. Atypical songs were predominantly expressed by unpaired males independent of habitat type. A small fraction of males sang atypical song through the middle of the breeding season, but all males sang only stereotypical adult song by the end of the season. These results suggest the expression of atypical songs reflect protracted vocal development rather than evolution of new song types, geographic variation in song structure, or an extensive song repertoire in Olive-sided Flycatchers.
20616995|The fertility announcement hypothesis proposes that avian males should sing at a high rate when their mate is fertile to guard their paternity. We examined if male Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) sing more during the incubation period when they are free of constraints of physical mate guarding. We assessed song rates of eight males for 1 hr-periods every 1-2 days during each breeding stage over two consecutive broods within one season. Males sang significantly more during periods when their mate was incubating than during the pre-fertile, or fertile periods, or while feeding young (second brood). Males may be singing at high rates during incubation to maintain contact with their mate and/or to advertise for extra-pair copulations.
20616996|We studied the breeding biology of Grasshopper Sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum) on restored grasslands in Maryland from 1999 to present. We report the first documented cases of social polygyny in this species. Polygyny increased reproductive success for males in two of four cases, but its rarity suggests it is only a facultative behavior for this usually socially monogamous species.
20616997|Sprague's Pipit (Anthus spragueii) is a ground-nesting passerine of the northern mixed-grass prairie. Few studies have examined the natural history and demography of the species, and little information exists on its mating system or parental care. We installed video monitoring systems at 11 randomly selected pipit nests to study parental care and nestling growth. We recorded one male providing parental care to nestlings in two nests active during the same time period. The male began delivering prey to nestlings and removing fecal sacs at both nests on day 5 of the nestling period. The male re-nested with one of his original mates 11 days after the nests failed, and began providing parental care to nestlings from day 2 until fledging. This is the first case of polygyny and male parental care documented for Sprague's Pipit. Future studies should examine the extent of polygyny in Sprague's Pipit using marked adults and genetic analyses.
20616998|We observed and video-taped actively nesting adult Eastern Bluebirds (Sialia sialis) repeatedly feeding abandoned conspecific juveniles in a nearby nest. We used molecular techniques to confirm these nestlings were unrelated to the adults that fed them. The most likely explanation for the observed behavior is that it was a mistake resulting from parental response to the begging vocalizations in the nearby nest.
20616999|I report a case of snow bathing by House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus), apparently the first for this species. As many as 15 finches bathed together, three to four at a time, in 18 cm of fresh loose snow in a manner typical when birds bathe in water or dirt: wings fluttered near the sides to spray the snow over the body with back and head plumage erected while the breast was pressed into the snow. Relatively few accounts of birds bathing in snow have been published. I found 23 prior reports of snow bathing for 16 North American species, mostly Passeriformes but including Falconiformes, Galliformes, Strigiformes, and Piciformes. Bathing in loose or uncompacted snow occurred more often than in wet or crusted snow, and there was a tendency for more than one bird to engage in snow bathing during each event. Brevity of accounts prevented identification of other factors that may be frequently associated with snow bathing. Bathing in snow is a routine behavior for some bird species, such as ptarmigan, and European accounts indicate that it is undoubtedly more widespread among North American species than shown by review of the literature.
20617000|We present two noteworthy observations of foraging Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura), including consumption of a marine toad (Bufo marinus) and a live juvenile cotton rat (Sigmodon hispidus). To our knowledge, these observations are the first reports of any North American vulture consuming B. marinus or a Turkey Vulture taking live mammalian prey. Our observations highlight the potential for mechanical mowers to provide carrion for Turkey Vultures.
20617001|We used hydrogen stable isotopes in feathers collected from 1998 through 2003 to examine if there was differential migration of juvenile Merlins (Falco columbarius) and Northern Harriers (Circus cyaneus) through the Florida Keys, USA in fall. We examined differences by gender, population, and intraseason variation for 120 Merlins and 60 harriers. We found no difference in <tex-math>$\delta \text{D}_{\text{f}}$</tex-math> values among years, and between genders, and dates of capture for either species.
20617002|Previous research reports bait-fishing in seven different species of ardeids. Our observations of Black-crowned Night Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax) on the island of Oahu, Hawaii, USA are the first to detail both passive and active bait-fishing in the same species. These observations provide support for the hypothesis that passive bait-fishing is a precursor to development of active bait-fishing methods in wading birds.
20617003|We observed depredation of a Florida Scrub-Jay (Aphelocoma coerulescens) nest of 4-day-old nestlings in April 2008 by the red imported fire ant (Solenopsis invicta). This exotic species is known to depredate nests of other avian species, but we believe this is the first account of this species of fire ant preying upon young of the Florida Scrub-Jay. This observation is particularly important, as it entails an introduced species directly reducing reproductive success of a federally threatened species.
40600370|We report results of a 4-year translocation effort to reestablish a breeding population of Evermann's Rock Ptarmigan (Lagopus muta evermanni) in the Near Islands group of the western Aleutian Archipelago. Habitat restoration was completed by eradication of introduced foxes from Agattu Island by 1979. We captured and moved 75 ptarmigan from Attu Island to Agattu Island during 2003-2006, and monitored 29 radio-marked females in the last 2 years of the study. We compared the demography of newly translocated birds (n = 13) with resident birds established from translocations in previous years (n = 16). Mortality risk was increased by translocation and 15% of females died within 2 weeks of release at Agattu Island. All surviving females attempted to nest but initiated clutches 8 days later in the breeding season and laid 1.5 fewer eggs per clutch than resident females. Probability of nest survival (x  SE) was good for both translocated (0.72  0.17) and resident females (0.50  0.16), and renests were rare. Probability of brood survival was higher among translocated (0.85  0.14) than resident females (0.25  0.12), partly as a result of inclement weather in 2006. Fecundity, estimated as female fledglings per breeding female, was relatively low for both translocated (0.9  0.3) and resident females (0.3  0.2). No mortalities occurred among radio-marked female ptarmigan during the 10-week breeding season, and the probability of annual survival for females in 2005-2006 was between 0.38 and 0.75. Translocations were successful because females survived, successfully nested, and recruited offspring during the establishment stage. Post-release monitoring provided useful demographic data in this study and should be a key component of translocation programs for wildlife restoration. Future population surveys and additional translocations may be required to ensure long-term viability of the reintroduced population of ptarmigan at Agattu Island.
40600371|We used 8 years of live recapture data (1998-2005) to estimate apparent annual survival for male (n = 237) and female (n = 296) Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri) breeding on a 36-ha plot on the Yukon-Kuskokwim River Delta, western Alaska. Apparent annual survival () is the product of true survival and site fidelity, and estimates of  were corrected for the probability of encounter. Overall return rates (individual returned to the study site in a subsequent season) were lower for females (40%) than males (65%), as was  ( SE, females = 0.65  0.05, males = 0.78  0.03), and encounter rate (females = 0.51  0.07, males = 0.74  0.04). Results differed from previous estimates of  for this species as our estimates of  were higher for both males and females compared to estimates from another breeding site and two nonbreeding locations. Disparity among  estimates from breeding and nonbreeding areas highlights the need to delineate site-specific factors throughout the annual cycle that influence population dynamics of the Western Sandpiper.
40600372|Natal philopatry is rare in long-distance migrant shorebirds and requires long-term population studies to detect. We report on the rate of natal philopatry from a 18-year study of Semipalmated Plovers {Charadrius semipalmatus) marked as hatchlings to an arctic breeding site near Churchill, Manitoba. About 2% (27/1271) of banded hatchlings returned to the Churchill area to breed. There was no male/female bias in rates of philopatry: 17 male and 10 female hatchlings recruited into the local breeding population. The annual rate of recruitment of hatchlings varied between 0 and 10.7%. Age of first encounter on breeding areas ranged from 1 to 8 years (median age 4) suggesting either unusually delayed age at first breeding, or low detection rates for philopatric hatchlings. The maximum age of a recruited (knownage) hatchling was 9 years. Natal dispersal distances did not differ between males and females, and averaged 5 km between hatching and breeding locations. We used a time-since-marking mark-recapture model to calculate apparent survival of hatchlings. Apparent survival in the interval after first capture was  = 0.0475 (95% CI: 0.030-0.075), whereas apparent survival () of birds during subsequent intervals was 0.866 (95% CI: 0.764-0.927). Low rates of natal philopatry suggest little advantage to site familiarity for juveniles, and agree with theoretical predictions for migratory species with widespread habitat availability.
40600373|I examined the breeding biology and nesting success of the Slate-throated Whitestart (Myioborus miniatus), a socially monogamous neotropical warbler, for five breeding seasons (2000-2004) in Monteverde, Costa Rica, near the center of its broad geographic range. Nesting was strongly seasonal, extending from late March through the end of June and coinciding with the end of the dry season and the onset of the rainy season in mid-May. Females constructed domed nests on open steep slopes or in banks along roads and trails. Mean clutch size was 2.9 eggs, and the mean incubation period was 14.2 days. Females performed all incubation of eggs and brooding of young nestlings, but both males and females fed nestlings and fledglings. Mean provisioning rate at nests when young were 5-9 days of age was 20.3 feedings/hr, and females fed young at a significantly higher rate than males (11.7 vs. 8.3 feedings/hr, respectively). Nestlings reached mean adult body mass of 9.5 g ~ day 7-8, and mean age at fledging was 11.3 days. Parents fed juveniles for at least 4 weeks after fledging; the latest record of adults feeding fledged young was for 40-day-old juveniles. Daily nest survival rates showed strong annual variation and generally declined as the nesting season progressed. Mean daily survival rate was 0.968 and estimated overall nest success was 40.3% with a mean of 2.6 young fledging from successful nests. Prdation was implicated in ~ 85% of nest failures.
40600374|We studied clutch size, hatching and fledging success, and time necessary for chick Kelp Gulls (Lams dominicanus) to leave the nest throughout two breeding seasons (2004 and 2005) on Guararitama Island, So Paulo, Brazil. We followed 93 nests in 2004 and 97 nests in 2005. The average ( SD) clutch size was 2.09  0.64 in 2004 and 1.93  0.59 in 2005. Hatching success was 74% in 2004 and 53% in 2005, and fledging success was 54% in 2004 and 58% in 2005. Chicks grew quickly, following the linear equation y(t) = 61g + 17.03g X age (in days), and began to fly at 40 days.
40600375|We present evidence of cooperative breeding in Society Kingfishers (Todiramphus veneratus). Groups of three kingfishers were observed cooperatively excavating nest cavities, incubating, and provisioning young. Three bird groups also comprised half of visual observations recorded during island-wide point transect surveys that occurred during the onset of breeding. Society Kingfisher densities were an order of magnitude greater than other Pacific kingfisher populations, which may lead to resource saturation and evolution of cooperation in this species. Our results lend insight into cooperative behaviors and facilitate conservation of birds in French Polynesia.
40600376|We examined Burrowing Owl (Athene cunicuaria) reproductive success at 144 nests in urban (n = 80) and grassland (n = 64) habitats in southern New Mexico in 2000 and 2001. Nest success was higher in grassland compared to urban areas (81 vs. 68%) but urban landscapes fledged more young per successful nest (3.85 vs. 3.07). Mean fledging success per nest was similar between habitats with 2.60 and 2.50 fledglings in urban and grassland habitats, respectively. Fledging success was categorized as failure, low, and high. Reproductive success in both habitats was associated with measures of owl density. High success in urban landscapes was associated with fewer surrounding nests, an index of larger nesting territories, and open space. Failure was associated with solitary nests. This suggests owls benefit from the presence of other nesting pairs as long as the density is not too high. High success in grassland habitats was associated with fewer surrounding nests, index of larger nesting territories, edge nests, and lower fledgling success of the nearest nest. Higher nest success, but fewer fledglings per successful nest, suggests competition for resources in this habitat.
40600377|Barn Owl (Tyto alba) diets were studied for 15 years in Utah. Ninety-eight percent of 111,016 prey items were mammals, heavily dominated by voles (Microtus spp.). Food-niche breadth (FNB) was 3.33 for the entire sample and varied gradually but significantly among the 15 years and among seasons. Frequency of prey in the diet did not vary significantly from year to year or among seasons. Mean daily temperatures did not vary significantly among years but annual precipitation totals and days when deep snow covered the ground varied significantly among years. Irrigation for agriculture may have partially mitigated annual precipitation fluctuations. Hay, one of the most important crops on the study area, increased over the study period and other crops decreased slightly in the amount planted. Hectares of hay planted, hectares of corn planted, and hectares of barley planted were the variables that combined to best predict annual FNB.
40600378|We collected data on breeding season diet composition of Red-shouldered Hawks (Buteo lineatus) in south Texas and compared these data, and those reported from studies elsewhere to examine large scale spatial variation in prey use in eastern North America. Red-shouldered Hawk diets aligned into two significantly different groups, which appear to correlate with latitude. The diets of Red-shouldered Hawks in group 1, which are of more northern latitudes, had significantly more mammalian prey and significantly less amphibian prey than those in group 2, which are at more southerly latitudes. Our meta-analysis demonstrated the dietary flexibility of Red-shouldered Hawks, which likely accounts for their broad distribution by exploiting regional variations in taxon-specific prey availability.
40600379|We studied the effects of brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds {Molothrus ater) and other factors on food provisioning rates of Swainson's Warblers (Limnothlypis swainsonii), a secretive and poorly understood species of conservation concern. We used time-lapse video systems to collect provisioning data at 25 nests, nine of which were parasitized by Brown-headed Cowbirds. We found strong relationships between feeding rate and brood size with increases from 2.0 feeding visits/hr for nests with a single Swainson's Warbler nestling to 3.0/hr for broods of four. We also found an effect of nestling age with 1.9 visits/hr early and 3.2 visits/hr late in the nestling period. The relationships between cowbird parasitism and provisioning were complex. Nests with brood size of one or three that contained a single cowbird nestling had greater provisioning rates (2.5 and 3.3 visits/hr, respectively) than non-parasitized nests (2.0 and 2.6 visits/hr, respectively). Nests with two cowbirds and no Swainson's Warbler young had greater provisioning rates (3.4 visits/hr) than those with two warbler young (2.4 visits/hr), or one warbler and one cowbird (2.6 visits/hr). The increase in provisioning rate with nestling age was more pronounced with two cowbird nestlings present than in nests with zero or one cowbird nestling. These results suggest that parasitized nests, especially those with multiple cowbird nestlings, can impose greater energetic demands on parents. Food limitation may constrain the ability of Swainson's Warblers to adequately care for both their own nestlings and cowbird young.
40600380|We used quantitative magnetic resonance body composition analysis and radiotelemetry to examine whether fat and lean body mass affected stopover durations of 11 birds captured during autumn migration in New York City, USA. Two Swainson's Thrushes (Catharus ustulatus), two Hermit Thrushes (C. guttatus), and seven Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapilla) were used in the study. Ovenbird stopover duration was significantly and negatively related to fat mass but unrelated to lean body mass. The same relationships were found when data from all three species were combined to increase sample sizes. Birds that departed within 1 day had fat stores upon capture that represented at least 11% of their total body mass whereas those with fat content < 6% of total body mass remained for no fewer than 4 days. Arrival fat mass clearly influenced time birds spent at the site but lean body mass did not. Conditions for increasing or maintaining fat stores provided by urban stopover sites may affect the migration timing of birds.
40600381|We recorded fluctuations in a population of Orange-winged Amazon {Amazona amaznica) during 1 year at a roosting site on an island near Belm, Par, Brazil. Parrots were counted from a boat by a minimum of three teams of two observers, each team oriented in different directions. Orange-winged Amazons were observed flying alone (14.2%), in pairs (75.7%), and small numbers in family groups (pairs with young) of three (8.7%), four (1.2%), or five (0.3%) individuals. The larger number of groups of three compared with groups of four and five individuals reflects the low survival rate of nestlings with generally only one surviving offspring per brood. The total number of parrots increased from April (3,899) to July (8,539), and began to decrease in August (5,351). This decrease was presumably due to onset of the breeding season, when paired individuals leave the roost in search of a nest, where they breed, nest, and rear young until the nestlings can fly.
40600382|Forster's Terns (Sterna forsteri) often forage alone or within mixed-species foraging aggregations. We investigated the relative costs and benefits of these two foraging strategies. Metrics used to assess differences in strategies included the number of attempts for prey (both successful and missed), capture efficiency, and capture rate. Forster's Terns foraging socially cue on presence and behavior of other aggregating species, especially Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula). Joining aggregations significantly increased their capture rate, but not their capture efficiency, compared to solitarily foraging terns. However, total aggregation size, influenced primarily by the two most abundant species, Laughing Gulls {Lams atricilla) and Snowy Egrets, affected tern behavior. For example, diving terns often collided with Laughing Gulls, causing frequent missed attempts for socially foraging individuals. Thus, large aggregation sizes had a negative effect on foraging success, perhaps because of interference and/or prey depletion. In contrast, solitarily foraging terns dove less often for prey but also missed less often. This may be why terns were observed foraging solitarily as aggregation sizes and congestion increased.
40600383|The Llanos is a significant waterbird site in the Western Hemisphere, but abundance and distribution of waterbirds across this vast region are poorly known, which hampers conservation initiatives. We used point counts along road routes in the Llanos region of Venezuela to examine abundance and distribution of waterbirds during 2000-2002 within five ecoregions across the Llanos. We detected 69 species of waterbirds and recorded 283,566 individuals, of which 10 species accounted for 80% of our observations. Wading birds (Ciconiiformes) represented the largest guild both in numbers of species (26) and individuals (55%), followed by waterfowl (26%), and shorebirds (11%). Five species comprised 62% of all individuals: Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis), White-faced Whistling Duck (Dendrocygna viduata), Blackbellied Whistling Duck (D. autumnalis), Great Egret (rdea alba), and Wattled Jacana (Jacana jacana). Wading birds were particularly ubiquitous with at least 21 of 26 species recorded in each of the ecoregions. Species richness (66), proportion of waterbirds detected (54%), and mean number of birds per route (1,459) were highest in the Banco-Bajio-Estero savanna ecoregion. Our study provides the most comprehensive data set available on waterbirds in the Llanos of Venezuela and highlights regions of special conservation concern.
40600384|The migration phenology of six species of coastal birds on Mustang Island, Texas, USA was examined for a 27-year period (1978-2005). First arrival date, last date of departure, and duration of stay were quantified for three winter and three summer residents. These three variables were analyzed for changes over time and correlation with local, regional, and global temperature indices. Mean local summer temperature increased 0.03 C/year (0.74 C overall), while mean local winter temperature increased 0.10 C/year (2.76 C overall). The three winter residents had a trend for increasingly later arrival, increasingly earlier departure, and decreased duration of stay over the 27-year period. These trends reflect a shortening of the winter season for these birds and are consistent with expected responses due to warming temperatures. The three terns representing summer residents had less homogeneity in temporal trends than the three winter residents. Correlations of local temperature with arrival and departure dates, and duration of stay yielded few significant results and no overall pattern. Only Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus; a winter resident) and Least Tern (Sterna antillarum; a summer resident) had significant correlations between arrival date and arrival temperature.
40600385|I used a randomized, replicated, controlled study design to test the hypothesis that nest-si te availability limits breeding densities of secondary cavity nesting species in even-age southern pine (Pinus spp.) forests. Breeding densities of secondary cavity nesters increased significantly on treated plots after nest boxes were introduced. Total number of nesting attempts also increased several fold post-treatment. These data indicate nest-site availability was a limiting factor for breeding densities of secondary cavity nesting species. The response of individual species to nest boxes ranged from moderately high (Great Crested Flycatcher [Myiarchus crinitus]), to low (Tufted Titmouse [Baeolophus bicolor], Eastern Bluebird [Sialia sialis]) to no response (Carolina Wren [Thryothorus ludovicianus]). At least three factors accounted for interspecific differences in this study: different levels of reliance on cavities excavated in snags, different body sizes, and differences in local population densities. The large number of unoccupied nest boxes (only 9% were used for nesting) suggests secondary cavity nesters were not limited solely by cavity availability but also by habitat quality. Prescribed burning appeared to facilitate discovery and use of nest boxes by birds in this study, consistent with the hypothesis that nestsite limitation is mitigated by habitat structure.
40600386|We quantified the impact of nesting and roosting House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) on nesting success of Cliff Swallows (Petrochelidon pyrrhonota) in colonies in western Arkansas in 2007 and 2008. Two sections of a large swallow colony under a bridge with House Sparrows were compared in 2007 to two sections with little House Sparrow usage. Nesting success of Cliff Swallows (percent of nests yielding at least 1 chick) was 61% in sections with low House Sparrow activity, significantly higher than the 30% in sections with high House Sparrow activity. House Sparrows defended a broad zone surrounding their nests from Cliff Swallow nesting attempts. We compared the proportion of nests used, clutch sizes, and brood sizes of Cliff Swallows in two colonies in 2008, one with and one without House Sparrow activity. In the colony without House Sparrow activity, 48% of old and new nests were used by swallows versus only 8% in the colony with House Sparrows. Swallow clutch sizes were similar in the two colonies, but swallow brood sizes in the colony with no House Sparrows were significantly higher, mean = 2.3 nestlings per nest (mode = 2; 75th percentile = 3) compared to 0.8 nestlings (mode = 0; 75th percentile = 1) in the colony with House Sparrows. This suggests Cliff Swallows are less successful when House Sparrows are present in colonies.
40600387|We evaluated home-range size and site tenacity of Le Conte's Sparrows (Ammodramus lecontii) during winter 2002-2003 at Brazoria National Wildlife Refuge, Texas. Twenty-six wintering Le Conte's Sparrows were radiomarked in 1- and 2-year post-burn units, and monitored for ~ 10 days. Additionally, 1-ha plots on each 1-, 2- and 3-year (n = 15) post-burn units were flush-netted once monthly. Telemetry results indicated Le Conte's Sparrows were sedentary during winter with a 50% probability mean home-range of 2.41 ha (72% < 1 ha) and a 95% probability mean home range of 10.31 ha (44% < 1 ha and 55% < 1.5 ha). Home-range size did not differ between post-burn year 1 and 2 (P = 0.227). Le Conte's Sparrows appeared to exhibit a behavioral response to flush-netting (P < 0.001) with estimated capture probability of 0.462 and recapture probability of 0.056. Our findings suggest Le Conte's Sparrows remain fairly sedentary throughout the winter.
40600388|Sex allocation theory predicts that population sex ratios should be generally stable and close to unity, but individuals may benefit by adjusting the sex ratio of their offspring. For example, females paired with attractive males may benefit by overproducing sons relative to daughters, as sons inherit their fathers' attractive ornaments ("sexy son" hypothesis). Similarly, if compatible gene effects on fitness are more pronounced in males than females, genetically dissimilar mated pairs may enhance fitness by overproducing sons ("outbred son" hypothesis). We tested these hypotheses in Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) by examining offspring sex ratios of 64 complete families shortly after hatching ("early-stage") and again shortly before fledging ("late-stage") in relation to paternal song complexity and the genetic similarity of social mates. Neither early nor late-stage offspring sex ratio was related to parental genetic similarity. Nests of males with larger song repertoires contained more male-biased broods by the late-stage nestling period, but not in the earlystage nestling period. These findings suggest that attractive males may be better able to successfully raise male-biased broods, but not that females adaptively adjust primary sex ratios in response to their social mate's attractiveness.
40600389|Little emphasis has been placed on the influence of season and age on morphological measurements of swifts, which makes comparative mensural studies difficult in the Apodidae. This study provides information about the importance of morphological variation in measurements to the biology of the Biscutate Swift (Streptoprocne biscutata). I studied individuals captured at four colonies in southern Brazil. Mass varied with age, time of day, and season. Birds captured at dawn weighed 115.5  9.9 g (n = 1,320). Mass was greater in fall and spring and lower in summer and winter. Subadults weighed less than adults during summer, fall, and winter. The wing measured 206.3  5.2 mm (n = 812), and the tail measured 69.9  4.6 mm (n = 802); both showed seasonal variation in length. The tarsus measured 25.9  0.6 mm (n = 695), and the exposed culmen measured 9.94  0.36 mm (n = 658). The Biscutate Swift has significant seasonal variation in several morphological measurements. This variation should be considered in studies comparing populations of this species, as well as those of other apodids.
40600390|Red-headed Woodpeckers (Melanerpes erythrocephalus) are one of the most easily recognizable bird species, but little is known about their social system and breeding activity due to their lack of sexual dimorphism. We observed a dense population of Red-headed Woodpeckers and found evidence of cooperative breeding. The habitat at our site may promote cooperative breeding because it has a high density of utility poles that woodpeckers use for nesting, roosting, and caching food.
40600391|The Collared Crescentchest (Melanopareia torquata) is an endemic bird of the Cerrado (Family: Melanopareiidae), and is listed in the State of So Paulo, Brazil as "endangered". We studied the breeding biology of Collared Crescentchest at two nests in the State of So Paulo, southeast Brazil. Males were identified genetically and equipped with radio-transmitters. The incubation period was 12-16 days and the nestling period was 12-14 days. Nestling body mass was measured every second day for the first 10 days. Males participated in incubation and helped with nesting care. Measurements of eggs and nests are compared to those from the single previously known nest. These data are the first for any member of the Family Melanopareiidae.
40600392|Swainson's Warblers (Limnothlypis swainsonii) have been described as terrestrial leaf litter foraging specialists, and are thought to vacate flooded areas entirely. We report Swainson's Warblers occupying a flooded area in Arkansas and foraging on unusual substrates. We observed Swainson's Warblers feeding in novel ways in the tree canopy and on floating debris. This is the first report of Swainson's Warblers occupying and foraging in flooded habitat, and suggests this species may have more short-term flexibility in foraging substrate than previously thought. Return rates to flooded territories were reduced compared to years without floods and several marked individuals switched to an unflooded area protected by man-made levees. The altered hydrology of rivers constrained by levees may reduce habitat quality for this species.
40600393|We investigated the roles of food quality and predator avoidance in shaping foraging behavior of Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis). Cardinals visited feeders near cover and feeders with sunflower seed significantly more than they visited those in the open and those with commercial wild bird seed mix. Cardinals with a choice between their preferred food and preferred location visited the sunflower seed feeder in the open significantly more than the mixed seed feeder near cover, despite their prior preference for feeding near cover. We recorded visits to these feeders over a 2-day period during which we played Cooper's Hawk (Accipiter cooperi) calls every 2 hrs. The overall visitation rate did not decrease significantly, nor did the visitation rate to feeders near cover increase significantly. However, the decrease in the visitation rate to feeders in the open approached significance. Overall, we observed a significant shift in the proportion of visits to feeders near cover (containing less preferred seed). We conclude Northern Cardinals are sensitive to both food quality and prdation risk, and adjust foraging to prevailing perceptions of risk.
40600394|We found the first documented wild nest of a Coral-billed Ground Cuckoo (Carpococcyx renauldi) at Khao Yai National Park, Thailand in June 2007. The large stick nest was monitored for 24 days including 1095 hrs of video footage; it contained two eggs and was in dense vegetation 4.85 m above the ground. Nest attentiveness of adults was almost constant with both birds taking turns to incubate or brood. Food delivered to nestlings included lizards, nestlings, a snake, frogs, earthworms, and other invertebrates. Nest defense was observed against several known nest predators but the nest ultimately failed due to prdation by a pig-tailed macaque (Macaca nemistrina). These observations provide insight into the breeding ecology of the only two congeners, C. viridis and C. radiceus, for which little is known of their ecology and both are endangered.
40600395|The endemic Chinese Grouse (Tetrastes sewerzowi) inhabits subalpine coniferous forests. Little is known about its diet in the breeding season, especially while birds feed on the ground. Analysis of crop contents indicated that willow (Salix app.) was the primary food of males (> 98% wet weight, n = 4), whereas Dragon spruce (Picea asperata) seeds and willow were the primary foods of females (both > 40% wet weight, n = 2). Dragon spruce seeds, invertebrates (mainly ants), and forbs were frequently consumed by females, but seldom by males, possibly to meet the nutrient constraints of egg formation. We suggest the different diets of males and females of this monogamous species may be the result of females allocating more time to searching for scarce, nutritious food, whereas males spend more time in vigilance behavior.
40600396|Common Ravens (Corvus corax) are opportunistic generalist foragers. Ravens during winter, in some portions of their range, rely heavily on meat scavenged from carcasses. Ravens use a variety of strategies to find carcasses on the landscape, including keying on audible cues that suggest the presence of a food source. I documented Common Ravens investigating a simulated animal distress call on 13 of 17 trials, suggesting that investigating animal distress vocalizations may be one tool in the suite of foraging strategies used by ravens.
40600397|We report observations of Hooded Crows (Corvus cornix) hanging upside down in the wild, for both playing and harvesting acorns. This behavior was recorded in six different events at the same site (Villa Chigi's urban park in Rome, Italy) and, in two cases, involved two individuals at the same time. Hanging behavior has been observed mainly in captive Northern Ravens (Corvus corax) and in few cases in wild corvids. Our observations indicate hanging behavior can be used to obtain food. These observations confirm that corvids have enormous plasticity that can be adapted to obtain food.
40600398|I report the first observation of conspecific brood parasitism in the Dickcissel (Spiza americana). I monitored 302 nests during a study of the interactions between parasitic Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) and Dickcissels. This and a possible second case of conspecific brood parasitism may have resulted from females laying in nests after their original nests were destroyed in nearby hayfields.
40600399|We observed adult Kelp Gulls (Lams dominicanus) capture and eat Olrog's Gull (L. atlanticas) chicks in the Baha Blanca estuary, Argentina. This estuary holds the largest breeding colony of Olrog's Gulls. There are no previously published reports of Kelp Gulls capturing and eating Olrog's Gull chicks. Our data support suggestions made by other authors about the possible existence of conflicts in colonies where both species breed in close proximity.
40600400|The Snares Penguin (Eudyptes robustus) breeds only on the Snares Islands, New Zealand, and is vagrant throughout the New Zealand region and southeast Australia. The only previous record outside this area was one in the Falkland Islands in 1988. We report the unusual occurrence of two Snares Penguins in the same colony in the Falkland Islands in 2008, and discuss identification issues. Vagrant penguins demonstrate the incredible dispersal ability of these flightless birds.
40600401|I present the first confirmed record of the Sapphire-throated Hummingbird (Lepidopyga coeruleogularis) at Punta Banco, southwestern Costa Rica. An adult male was seen and photographed perched on a twig at the border of a second growth forest tract. This observation extends the geographic distribution of this species from northern Colombia to southwestern Costa Rica.
40600411|We began our studies of House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) biparental care in the mid-1990s by applying the classic Margaret Morse Nice field technique of color-banding individuals. Over the ensuing summers, we slowly accumulated quantitative provisioning records for 100 broods, even as we commenced a series of experimental manipulations. Provisioning data showed parental fitness, as expressed by offspring recruitment into the local breeding population, to be shaped mainly by the adults' ability to deliver enormous insect prey items. It also turned out that production of robust and competitive fledglings routinely involves losing one or more nestlings (brood reduction in 42% of 1,000 multi-chick families). Recruitment success was compensated for the death of an offspring if the subsequent reallocation of food enables surviving nest-mates to gain at least 2 g more before fledging. Video samples showed that parents of day 3 broods favored larger siblings, even though brood reduction typically occurs on ~ day 4, suggesting that adults participate actively in promoting some offspring over others. The social dynamic affecting how parents work as a team during provisioning does not fit the pattern expected if partners negotiate actively with one another, but points more toward the likelihood of "sealed bids." Specifically, experimental handicapping of individual parents (tail-weights and hormone implants) indicates partners operate quite independently during brood-rearing. We are now extending our experiments into the incubation phase, where parents are probably better-informed about partner activities, thus potentially able to adjust to fluctuating contributions. Finally, behavioral rules affecting food deliveries seem to differ for females and males. Females normally increase provisioning as the brood ages, but males do not. However, when broods received supplemental nutrients, males matched the female upsurge, accelerating their deliveries by 25%, showing they usually work well below capacity.
40600412|Eared Grebes (Podiceps nigricollis) in autumn make a postbreeding/molt migration from breeding areas in western North America to hypersaline lakes in the Great Basin. We studied their biology in 2001-2006 during this phase of the annual migration near Green River, Wyoming, USA where migrants en route to Great Salt Lake, Utah land on industrial ponds. Most evidently originate in the Prairie Pothole Region of North Dakota. The main movement extends from late July to mid-October. Migrants arrive almost daily with the cumulative percentage of transiting birds increasing by about 1% per day. Adult males and females migrate on the same schedule and precede juveniles by 2-3 weeks. Annual differences in phenology, abundance, age ratio, and wing molt vary with availability of wetland habitats in the main source area. Data on mass, body composition, energetics, and stomach contents indicate a typical flight involves a direct 2-3 day non-feeding migration, which is accomplished at night. Grebes are quiescent during the day and do not resume their migration until 45 min after sunset. We documented two undescribed vocalizations, a short-range contact note and one associated with departure. The possibility that Eared Grebe productivity, as inferred from studies of migrants through Wyoming, can provide insight into the status of waterbirds in the source area is worth further investigation.
40600413|Natal dispersal is common among many bird species with females usually dispersing farther than males.We examined postfledging and natal dispersal ecology of Crested Ibis (Nipponia nippon) in the Qinling Mountains, China by marking nestlings with either color bands or radio transmitters. Family groups, consisting of juveniles after fledging and their parents, dispersed progressively farther from nest sites after fledging in a southerly direction with a mean ( SD) direction of 189.2  46.5 and a mean distance of 20.3  7.0 km. Mean natal dispersal distance of females (9.6 km) was significantly greater than for males (5.9 km) (t = 2.14, P = 0.03). Most individuals moved southeasterly from natal areas and dispersal movements of individual ibis were concentrated at the mean direction ( = 185.6 ,  = 86.1) . First reproduction by females (3.64  1.36 years) was not significantly earlier than for males (4.17  1.47 years). The results of this study will be useful for reintroduction programs for critically endangered species.
40600414|We attempted to distinguish spring passage migrant Tropical Kingbirds (Tyrannus melancholicus) from resident conspecifics where they overlap in South America. Migrant males at our Bolivian study site had significantly less tail feather molt and longer wing chords than resident males. Migrant females had significantly longer wing chords, less flight feather molt, and less flight feather wear than resident females. We found no evidence of genetic population differentiation between migrants and residents. We also compared wing chords of migrants and residents to those of breeding kingbirds in breeding populations further south. Wing chords of migrants were more similar to those of breeders from further south than to those of breeders at our study site. An ability to distinguish migrant from resident conspecifics will be critical to understanding migrant winter ecology, migratory routes, and connectivity of migratory populations in South America.
40600415|The Red-cockaded Woodpecker {Picoides borealis) is an endangered species endemic to pine (Pinus spp.) forests of the southeastern United States. I examined Red-cockaded Woodpecker foraging behavior to learn if there were male/female differences at the Savannah River Site, South Carolina. The study was conducted in largely young forest stands (< 50 years of age) in contrast to earlier foraging behavior studies that focused on more mature forest. The Redcockaded Woodpecker at the Savannah River site is intensively managed including monitoring, translocation, and installation of artificial cavity inserts for roosting and nesting. Over a 3-year period, 6,407 foraging observations covering seven woodpecker family groups were recorded during all seasons of the year and all times of day. The most striking differences occurred in foraging method (males usually scaled [45% of observations] and females mostly probed [47%]), substrate used (females had a stronger preference [93%] for the trunk than males [79%]), and foraging height from the ground (mean  SE foraging height was higher for males [11.1  0.5 m] than females [9.8  0.5 m]). Niche overlap between males and females was lowest for substrate (85.6%) and foraging height (87.8%), and highest for tree species (99.0%), tree condition (98.3%), and tree height (96.4%). Both males and females preferred to forage in older, large pine trees. The habitat available at the Savannah River Site was considerably younger than at most other locations, but the pattern of male/female habitat partitioning observed was similar to that documented elsewhere within the range attesting to the species' ability to adjust behaviorally.
40600416|Foraging habits and habitats of exclusive aerial insectivores, the Edible-nest Swiftlet (Aerodramus fuciphagus inexpectatus) and Glossy Swiftlet (Collocalia esculenta affinis), were studied in Andaman Islands, India.Observations were made during January to June 2004 between 0500 and 1800 hrs at four locations in the forest and on open paddy land. Edible-nest and Glossy swiftlets, respectively, spent (X  SD) 17.2  11.4% and 25.8  15.6% of their time foraging with significant temporal variations. Glossy Swiftlets had spatial variations in twist, flutter, and tail-wing-open foraging maneuvers. This species also had diurnal variations in flock size, which were positively correlated with feeding attempts. Both swiftlets shared all microhabitats except Inside Forest Canopy and Inside Stream Bank Canopy.Microhabitat use did not vary significantly in Below Stream Bank Canopy, > 10 m Above Forest Canopy, > 30 m Above Ground, and Above Forest Canopy for Edible-nest Swiftlets. Inside Forest Canopy and Inside Stream Bank Canopy categories for Glossy Swiftlets were relatively important in descending order. Deforestation near and distant from caves used by swiftlets for breeding in the islands can severely affect the wild population of both species.
40600417|We analyzed phenotypic distribution, nesting success, and genetic purity of Golden-winged Warblers (Vermivora chrysoptera) and Blue-winged Warblers (V. pinus) in two ecologically distinct nesting habitats: earlysuccession uplands, and swamp forests. The proportion of phenotypically pure Golden-winged Warblers in swamp forests (94%) differed significantly from uplands (53%) as did the proportion of Golden-winged Warbler pairs (93%) in swamp forests compared to uplands (48%). Only 1% of the phenotypically pure Golden-winged Warblers in swamp forests paired with either a hybrid or a Blue-winged Warbler, but 7% of the phenotypically pure Golden-winged Warblers in uplands formed a hybrid pair. The probability of nesting success for Golden-winged Warbler pairs in swamp forests (65%) was significantly higher than in uplands (37%). Mitochondrial DNA analyses indicate that all 10 phenotypically pure Goldenwinged Warblers sampled from swamp forests had the ancestral Golden-winged Warbler haplotype, while 10 of 25 Goldenwinged Warblers from uplands had the ancestral Blue-winged Warbler haplotype (P = 0.033). Swamp forests may provide a source habitat for Golden-winged Warblers with a high phenotypic and genotypic purity even in sympatry with Bluewinged Warblers.
40600418|We examined the effect of geographic isolation on morphology, genetic structure, and abundance of the Sooty-capped Bush Tanager (Chlorospingus pileatus), an endemic species restricted to highlands of Costa Rica and western Panama. Abundance and morphology were measured at five study sites and genetic variation was calculated from three microsatellite loci. We expected geographic discontinuities in this species' distribution to have an effect on its morphology and genetic structure. Genetic variation was higher within than between populations with no effect of geographic barriers on population genetic divergence in this species, indicating gene flow is high between populations. Unique aleles were detected in each population and F <sub>st</sub> values increased with geographic distance between populations. Some morphological traits differed between populations, which may be caused by adaptation to different selective pressures in each population. Molecular data did not differ between the two color morphs that coexist in two isolated populations, which were considered different species.
40600419|We examined a 35-year transition in the breeding bird community at a successional study site in a reforesting landscape in southwestern New York, USA. Changes in the successional plot were compared with those in two additional census plots, one in undisturbed forest and the other in a managed tree farm. The territories of 7,429 singing male songbirds were mapped on the census plots. The most dramatic changes in community structure were in the successional plot where total number of territories declined between the beginning of the study (x = 95.8 territories, 1969-1973) and end of the study (x = 57.2 territories, 1999-2003); grassland/shrub nesting species were nearly extirpated, and the number of neotropical migrant territories increased from zero in 1969 to 30 in 2003. The average number of neotropical migrant territories in the undisturbed forest plot declined from the beginning of the study (x = 54.0, 1975-1979) to the end (x = 44.8, 2003-2007). The average number of territories increased in the managed tree farm from the beginning of the study (x = 53.6, 1983-1987) to the end (x = 104.0, 2003-2007) largely due to increases in abundance of temperate zone migrants and resident species. Counts of individual species in the census plots were not highly correlated with counts from regional Breeding Bird Survey routes.
40600420|We examined the influence of shoreline residential development on breeding bird communities along forested portions of Lake Superior and hypothesized that anthropogenic changes related to housing development would alter bird community structure compared to areas without human development. We used point counts to compare relative abundance of bird species in relation to residential development at coarse (along 1 km shoreline stretches with and without housing/cottage development) and fine (developed and undeveloped sides of a shoreline access road) spatial scales during the 2005 breeding season. More species had development related differences in abundance at the finer-scale analysis than at the coarse scale. American Crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) and American Robins (Turdus migratorius) were more abundant on the developed, shoreline side of shoreline access roads. Red-breasted Nuthatches (Sitta canadensis), Blackthroated Green Warblers (Dendroica virens), and Red-eyed Vireos (Vreo olivaceus) were more abundant on the undeveloped, inland side of shoreline access roads. Several species were detected exclusively in developed or undeveloped forest areas. The pattern of development-related differences in relative abundance of bird species depended on the scale at which data were analyzed, suggesting that many species may respond to habitat differences within the 100 m scale quite distinct from how they respond to differences at the scale of thousands of meters.
40600421|We monitored songbird nest survival in two reforesting, ~50-ha former cropland sites along the Missouri River in central Missouri from 2001 to 2003. Sites were partitioned into three experimental units, each receiving one of three tree planting treatments. Nest densities varied among restoration treatments for four of five species, but overall nest survival rates did not. Nest survival varied with day-of-year and with incidence of brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds {Molothrus ater). Nest survival was higher early and late in the season, and parasitized nests experienced lower nest survival, despite few complete losses directly attributable to parasitism. Probability of parasitism was inversely related to distance to the nearest tree, and was much lower than in old field study sites in the same region. High cowbird parasitism frequencies are usually associated with landscapes low in forest cover, yet these sites in an agriculturally-dominated bottomland landscape experienced low ( 0.8-24%) cowbird parasitism. The assumed negative relationship between landscape-level forest cover and cowbird parasitism needs further study in habitats other than forest.
40600422|We examined whether male plumage coloration signals parental quality in the American Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla), a highly ornamented, migratory warbler. We measured the relationship between both adult male arrival date and phenotype (morphology, melanin-and carotenoid-based plumage), and parental care levels of both parents. Males with brighter flank feathers made more visits to the nest and spent more time at the nest, consistent with the ' goodparent hypothesis'. Female parental care (number of visits) was negatively correlated with intensity of red of her mate's tail feathers and positively associated with her mate's parental effort. These data indicate offspring of brighter males receive more care from both parents. Our results suggest carotenoid-based plumage traits of male American Redstarts may have an important role in intersexual signaling, and add to our understanding of the evolution of multiple ornaments.
40600423|Biologists know relatively little of how one of the most important avian phenotypic signals, feather coloration, may be affected by anthropogenic changes resulting from urbanization. We examined the relationship between urbanization and carotenoid-based plumage color of Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis) in 13 riparian forests distributed across a rural-to-urban landscape gradient in central Ohio, USA. Feathers and morphometric measurements were collected from breeding territorial males (n = 129) and females (n = 145) during March-August 2006-2008. Plumage brightness of males, but not females, increased with body condition (i. e., size-adjusted mass) and declined with amount of urbanization surrounding forests in which cardinals bred. The extent plumage coloration reflected condition was partially mediated by landscape composition. Specifically, the relationship between brightness and body condition was most pronounced in the most rural landscapes. The interdependency of male coloration and body condition may be more relaxed in urban than rural landscapes if carotenoid-rich foods from anthropogenic and/or invasive sources are more available, or are accessible to birds across a wide range of condition.
40600424|We studied the breeding ecology of the Southern Grey Shrike (Lanius meridionalis) at the Shezaf Nature Reserve, Arava Valley, Israel, an extremely arid desert with mean annual rainfall of 30 mm. We color-banded 128 shrikes during 2007-2009. The breeding season lasted from late February until late June. We found 34 nests and a correlation between years with amount of precipitation and number of breeding pairs. Second broods after successful broods were found only in 2007 and were all unsuccessful. Most nests were in Acacia trees; pairs that nested in dry trees, lacking foliage, were more likely to fail. The average clutch size was 3.44; average number of nestlings was 1.95; and average number of nestlings that fledged was 1.24. These results are lower than other studies of the species, probably a result of the scarcity of food in the arid environment. Nest survival rate was higher during incubation than during rearing of nestlings (0.71 vs. 0.62), and total nest survival was 44.5%. The arid Arava Valley influences breeding success of Southern Grey Shrikes, and the present severe drought could negatively influence persistence of the shrike population in the Arava Valley.
40600425|Nelson's (Ammodramus nelsoni) and Saltmarsh (A. caudacutus) sparrows are sympatric breeders in tidal marshes of the southern Gulf of Maine. These sparrows hybridize, have different mating strategies, and males do not defend territories or provide parental care. We estimated and compared core area sizes, home range sizes, and habitat use between species and between males and females. We radio-marked 140 sparrows (63 Nelson's and 77 Saltmarsh sparrows) during three breeding seasons (1999-2001) at Scarborough Marsh, Maine, USA. Home ranges of male A. nelsoni were 2.3 times larger ( SE) (119.68  19.43 ha) than those of male A. caudacutus (52.85  8.68 ha). Home range sizes of female Nelson's and female Saltmarsh sparrows did not differ from each other (female Nelson's home range = 43.58  13.10 ha; female Saltmarsh home range = 27.81  6.3 ha). More than 40% of male and 18% of female home ranges had two discrete core areas and, in most instances, each core area corresponded to a separate lunar cycle. We suggest that differences in mating strategies, densities, and adaptation to nesting in tidal marshes explain the larger home range estimates for male Nelson's Sparrows. Female and male Nelson's Sparrows' home ranges had more Spartina alterniflora cover and female Saltmarsh Sparrows' home ranges had greater Juncus gerardii cover than random locations. Home ranges of female Saltmarsh Sparrows had less Spartina alterniflora cover and more Juncus gerardii cover than female Nelson's Sparrows. We did not detect any differences in vegetation variables between male Saltmarsh and male Nelson's sparrow home ranges.
40600426|Perceived similarity in appearance of eggs of the Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) and several grassland passerine hosts has been suggested to represent a form of generalized mimicry evolved to impede egg discrimination. We tested this hypothesis by quantitatively comparing four parameters (ground color, maculation color, distribution of maculation, and maculation density) among cowbird eggs and those of six grassland passerines known to preferentially accept cowbird eggs over non-mimetic blue eggs. Cowbird eggs did not significantly differ in three of four parameters (mean ground color, and color and density of maculation) from the average grassland passerine egg measured for this community, in southern Saskatchewan, when all grassland passerine eggs were pooled. Cowbird eggs sufficiently overlapped grassland passerine eggs in these three parameters that 88% of cowbird eggs measured were statistically indistinguishable from among all grassland passerine eggs. The frequency at which cowbird eggs were misclassified as eggs of each grassland passerine ranged from 8 to 48%, which suggests that a single cowbird egg is capable of mimicking the eggs of more than one species. These results support the hypothesis that cowbirds have evolved a generalized egg appearance that mimics the eggs of multiple grassland passerine hosts within a single community.
40600427|We document the molt sequence of flight feathers in Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura) based on studies of captive and wild birds, and examination of museum specimens. We found an unusual pattern of primary replacement, which appears to be a modified form of Staffelmauser, or stepwise wing molt. A Staffelmauser-like strategy for replacement of the secondaries is also described. These patterns of feather replacement appear to be adaptations to maintain flying performance while replacing all primaries and most secondaries during each molt. To what extent molt patterns in Turkey Vultures reflect convergent adaptation for flight, rather than ancestral characters useful for phylogenetic studies, remains unknown.
40600428|We report the first observations of cooperative polyandry in the Red-footed Booby (Sula sula), a trio that remained stable over at least 4 consecutive years. Both males were heterosexual; neither was dominant. One male was more sexually active, but mounting activity suggested shared paternity over the years. Trio males, compared to monogamous males, invested more in pair bond maintenance activity which possibly assisted in maintaining a stable breeding unit. Trio members, like monogamous adults, shared breeding duties evenly, reducing the total investment for each trio member relative to that of monogamous adults. The extra foraging effort of the trio enabled similar provisioning rates in good and bad years. We suggest trio formation improved female lifetime reproductive success due to enhanced nest, egg, and chick care; maintained stable food provisioning rates despite highly heterogeneous foraging conditions; and increased male survivorship due to sharing of breeding duties. Red-footed Booby trio formation is probably an "opportunistic deviation" from normal monogamy which is favored by differential costs and benefits to males and females.
40600429|We report evidence of egg-laying in northern Florida by the Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis). Examination of the ovary and oviduct of a female trapped in Alachua County, Florida in late June 2006 revealed ovulation and recent passing of eggs. Two other Shiny Cowbird females captured in late May and early June had convoluted oviducts but showed no other signs of recent egg-laying. These three specimens add to the few female Shiny Cowbirds captured in North America. Our observations represent further evidence that Shiny Cowbirds likely breed in North America and additional evidence of breeding outside of southern Florida.
40600430|The Smooth-billed Ani (Crotophaga ani) is a plural-breeding, joint-nesting species that engages in both cooperation and reproductive competition. We report circumstantial evidence for infanticide of chicks by adults that joined a group after completion of the communal clutch. We provide evidence that some of the group adults captured after the infanticide were unrelated to any of the chicks and may have acted to increase chances of renesting.
40600431|Air speed of Red-necked Grebes (Podiceps grisegena), migrating in "no wind" conditions along a 2.64-km path along Lake Superior, Michigan in fall averaged 61.5 km/hr. Speed increased significantly using tail winds adjusted for wind vectors as the migration season advanced: 68 km/hr in August, 70.1 km/hr in September, and 78.7 km/hr in October. Horned Grebes (P. auritus) averaged 55.5 km/hr with no winds and, with tail winds, increased from 63.5 km/hr in September to 71.5 km/hr in October. Whether the increases indicate that late fall migrants are time constrained to complete their movement to wintering areas rapidly, or are a consequence of having to fly faster because of larger body mass at that season, remain to be fully explored. We also present flight speeds of 10 additional species of waterbirds migrating along the same path.
40600432|Birds in hyper-arid environments have acute problems of energy and water balance, and thermoregulate both physiologically and behaviorally. I report on European Bee-eaters (Merops apiaster) engaged in a previously unreported thermoregulatory behavior of diving into the sea and in salt ponds with high levels of salinity. This behavior may also explain the previously reported, but unexplained, finding of beeeaters inside a tiger shark (Galeocerdo cuvier) in the Red Sea. These observations should instigate future experiments on the subject of selective use of salt water for evaporative cooling and thermoregulatory behavior by desert birds.
40600433|The Chuck-will's-widow (Caprimulgus carolinensis) in the Bahama Islands has been regarded as a rare to uncommon winter visitor. We conducted breeding season surveys on the three largest northern islands (North Andros, Grand Bahama, and Great Abaco) to examine the status of this species. We encountered singing birds on most survey routes on all three islands, suggesting that sizeable breeding populations are widespread in the northern Bahamas with an aggregate estimate of 500-1,000 pairs. Our density estimates were somewhat less than those from the primary range in the United States, suggesting either a lower carrying capacity in the Bahama Islands or recently established populations that have yet to reach carrying capacity.
40600434|Yellow Rails (Coturnicops noveboracensis) were recently discovered to migrate through southeastern Oklahoma in small numbers during fall with a few records into December and a single record in January. We made seven trips (3 in Nov 2008 and 1/month from Dec 2008 through Mar 2009) to Red Slough Wildlife Management Area in McCurtain County (Oklahoma) to catch and band Yellow Rails. Twentyfive Yellow Rails were banded and birds were observed during each month. Rails were encountered in areas dominated by Sporobolus spp. averaging 44 cm in height in areas with 4 cm or less of standing water. Yellow Rails appear to overwinter in small numbers in McCurtain County, Oklahoma  300 km north of the Gulf Coast.
40600435|We describe the nest sites, nests, eggs, and incubation and provisioning behavior of the endemic Giant Laughingthrush (Garrulax maximus) in a coniferous forest (2,850-2,950 m asi) at Lianhuashan, southern Gansu, central China. We found seven shallow bowl-shaped nests in Picea-Abies trees, 4.0  1.5 m (x  SD, n = 7) above the ground during May and June 2003, 2007, and 2008. Clutch size was 2.2  0.4 unspotted blue eggs (2-3, n  6) of which 1.4  0.5 nestlings hatched (1-2, n = 7), and 1.0  1.0 young fledged (0-2, n = 7). Three nests failed, possibly due to prdation or abandonment during prolonged rainfall. Both males and females incubated clutches; nest attentiveness during the day decreased from 92.6  0.9% before hatching to 59.4  1.5% during days 3-7 of the nestling period. Both parents fed the nestlings (1.0  1.0 times/hr) and consumed the feces (0.3  0.5 times/hr) during the 7-15 days after hatching.
40600436|The Jocotoco Antpitta (Grallaria ridgelyi) is an endangered and poorly studied inhabitant of montane bamboo (Chusquea spp.) thickets of extreme southeastern Ecuador. There is nothing known of the breeding biology of Jocotoco Antpitta apart from a single record of a dependent juvenile, and we describe a nest of this species for the first time. The nest was a bulky cup composed primarily of dead plant materials and firmly supported by a large clump of epiphytes on the side of a dead trunk. The single nestling was provisioned at a rate of 1.96 feedings/hr during the final 5 days prior to fledging. Two adults brought food to the nestling, often delivering prey from a nearby wormfeeding station created by the Jocotoco Foundation. The pair we studied may breed twice a year, but this may have been facilitated by their proximity to the artificial feeder.
40600437|We studied the breeding ecology of the Grey-backed Shrike (Lanius tephronotus) in alpine shrub habitats in south Tibet. Shrikes nested between late May and early July at elevations of 4,010-4,540 m with a delay in nesting time with increased elevation. Nests were built mostly in bushes (83%), 0.7-2.1 m above ground. Clutch size averaged ( SD) 4.12  0.67, range = 3-5 eggs and was smaller for pairs that nested later at higher elevations. Incubation by females began before clutch competition and lasted 15-18 days. Nestlings were cared for by both parents for 14-15 days. Breeding success, considered as the number of nest attempts that fledged at least one young, was 45.8%. Shrikes nesting in alpine habitats, compared with their lowland congeners, experienced shorter breeding seasons, produced fewer broods, smaller clutches, and larger eggs. They followed a life history strategy that allowed them to compensate for reduced annual fecundity under harsh conditions.
40600438|Two mixed pairs of towhees were found in irrigated desert yards near Tucson, Arizona. The first known towhee F hybrids, from a female Pipilo aberti (Abert's Towhee) and male P. fuscus (Canyon Towhee) were studied from winter of 1998-1999 through summer 2000. This mixed pair raised at least eight young in three broods during the two breeding seasons. Young were so similar to P. fuscus that, if seen outside this context, they would probably not be identified as hybrids. A second mixed pair, also near Tucson, suggests that hybridization between P. aberti and P. fuscus may be more common than originally thought. Lack of previously reported hybridization between P. aberti and P. fuscus may be either due to internal or external isolating mechanisms, limited survival and longevity, or human failure to recognize hybrids.
40600439|I observed a Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus) nest in southcentral Wisconsin, USA that received a Yellow-billed Cuckoo (Coccyzus americanus) egg. The cuckoo egg was laid after the blackbird clutch was complete and the female had begun incubation. The parasitic egg was considerably different in size and color, but was accepted by the female Red-winged Blackbird. The female, but not the male, also cared for the nestling, which was strikingly different in plumage, gape markings, and begging behavior, and which grew despite its 3-4 day hatching delay relative to its nest mates. Rapid development and exaggerated begging behavior of the Yellow-billed Cuckoo nestling may enable a parasitic cuckoo nestling to compete successfully with host nestlings for food.
40962163|We studied the breeding biology of the Baywing (Agelaioides badius), a shared host of Screaming (Molothrus rufoaxillaris) and Shiny (M. bonariensis) cowbirds. We monitored 193 nests from December 2002 to March 2007 in the Province of Buenos Aires, Argentina. Baywings used a wide variety of nesting sites, mainly old nests of furnarids. Their breeding season lasted from late November to February and was closely matched by that of Screaming Cowbirds. The breeding season for Shiny Cowbirds started in late September but overlapped that of Baywings. Frequency and intensity of Screaming Cowbird parasitism were 93% and 5 eggs per parasitized nest, while for Shiny Cowbirds they were 16% and 1.4 eggs. Host clutch size was 4.0  0.1 eggs and did not vary with time of breeding. Weight at hatching and age of maximum growth were similar for host and Screaming Cowbird nestlings. Shiny Cowbird nestlings had higher weight at hatching and lower age of maximum growth than the other two species. Screaming and Shiny cowbird nestlings had higher growth rates and asymptotic weights than host nestlings. Sex-specific growth curves of Screaming Cowbirds indicated males had higher growth rate and asymptotic weight than females. Only 19% of the nests produced fledglings. Host egg survival, hatching success, and nestling survival were 0.92, 0.88, and 0.94, respectively. Excluding nest failures, hosts fledged 0.78 chicks per egg laid. Baywings were smaller than Screaming and Shiny cowbirds, and experienced a high frequency and intensity of parasitism. However, the effect of parasitism on host hatching success and chick survival was low and comparable to that observed in larger hosts.
40962164|The Bobolink (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) is an obligate grassland species that is declining throughout its range in North America. There are few data available on Bobolink eggs and nestlings; this information is necessary for conservation planning efforts. Egg mass was recorded for 175 eggs from 37 nests in Qubec and eastern Ontario in 2006-2007. Hatching asynchrony was evident with high between-clutch variation in egg mass. Egg mass did not differ with clutch size. Nest initiation date was positively correlated with smallest egg size and negatively correlated with within-clutch egg mass deviation. Nestling wing length, tarsus length, and mass were measured for 166 nestlings ranging from 2 to 10 days of age. Bobolink nestlings fledged below adult size and mass, achieving 87.7  2.3%, 67.6  1.5%, and 55.1  0.4% of breeding adult tarsus length, mass, and wing length ( SE), respectively.
40962165|The Yucatan Wren (Campylorhynchus yucatanicus) is a highly restricted endemic species inhabiting the coastal scrub at the northern portion of the Yucatan Peninsula. We describe the breeding phenology and nesting success of this endangered species from April to September 2007 for a population at Ria Celestun Biosphere Reserve. We found 232 nests of which only 110 (47%) were active at either incubation or nestling stages. Yucatan wrens initiated nest building in late April, but clutch initiation occurred in early June and lasted until the end of July, resulting in a breeding season of 2 months. Nests were exclusively in coastal scrub and the transition between coastal scrub and black mangrove (Avicennia germinam) forest. Eleven species of trees were used as nesting substrate, but three included 75% of all nests found. Clutch size (x  SD) was 3  1.5 eggs with incubation and nestling periods averaging 16  1.0 days, and 16.5  1 . 9 days, respectively. Mayfield estimates of daily survival rate for incubation and nestling periods were 0.968  0.005 and 0.975  0.005, respectively with nesting success of 46%. The average number of fledglings per successful nest was 2.5  1.3. Predation was the main cause of nest mortality accounting for 54% of the active nests. Parental care was provided by both parents, but participation of a third individual feeding nestlings was recorded at three nests, providing evidence for occasional cooperative breeding. Increasing human development in the coastal region of the Yucatan Peninsula may represent a serious threat to conservation of the Yucatan Wren due to habitat restriction and high dependency on three species of trees as nesting substrate.
40962166|We provide details on the breeding biology of the Slate-throated Whitestart (Myioborus miniatus) from 126 nests found during seven breeding seasons, 2002-2008, at Yacamb National Park, Venezuela. Nesting activity peaked in late April and May. Only the female built the nest and incubated the eggs. Males rarely visited the nest during these stages. Mean clutch size (2.1  0.04 eggs, n = 93) was the smallest recorded for the Slate-throated Whitestart. Incubation and nestling period lengths were 15.3  0.31 (n = 21) and 10.8  0.24 (n = 7) days, respectively. Attentiveness (% of time on the nest) during incubation (59  1.6%, n = 52) was similar to other tropical warblers and much lower than northern relatives. This caused a relatively low egg temperature (34.40  0.33  C, n = 6 nests, 20 days) compared with north temperate birds. Both parents fed nestlings and increased their provisioning rates with nestling age. Growth rate based on nestling mass (k = 0.521  0.015) was faster than for other tropical passerines but slower than northern relatives. Prdation was the main cause of nesting failure and rate of prdation increased with age of the nest. An estimated 15% of nests were successful based on an overall Mayfield daily prdation rate of 0.053  0.007. This study confirms a strong latitudinal variation in life history traits of warblers.
40962167|Successful conservation of grassland bird populations requires basic information on their breeding biology; in particular, information from undisturbed native prairie over an extended period of time. We present data collected at Bowdoin National Wildlife Refuge in northcentral Montana on the reproductive biology of six grassland bird species that breed in mixed-grass prairie: Sprague's Pipit (Anthus spragueii), Savannah (Passerculus sandwichensis), Grasshopper (Ammodramus savannarum), and Baird's (A. bairdii) sparrows, Chestnut-collared Longspur (Calcarius ornatus), and Western Meadowlark (Sturnella neglecta). Basic measures of reproductive biology are presented, including estimates of nest density, phenology, fecundity, parasitism rates, and nest success, and how these and other characteristics varied across years. Nests (n = 1,494) of the six focal species accounted for 98% of all passerine nests found during 1997-2007; Chestnut-collared Longspurs (51%) were the dominant breeding species. Total nest density across years ranged from 20 to 41 nests per 40 ha (CV = 26%) on unburned sites. Mean clutch initiation date and clutch size varied little across years; however, clutch size tended to decrease over the course of a season, regardless of bird species. Daily nest survival rates did not differ markedly among bird species, but did vary substantially among years, suggesting that year-dependent factors were affecting nest success among all species similarly.
40962168|We evaluated foraging and nesting behavior, territory size, and nest success of Golden-cheeked Warblers (Dendroica chrysoparia), a federally endangered songbird, relative to mountain biking trail use. We conducted our study at two mountain biking sites and two control sites at Fort Hood Military Base and in Austin, Texas, in spring 2002 and 2003. Territories of male Golden-cheeked Warblers in biking sites (2.2 ha) were > 1.5 times as large as those in non-biking sites (1.4 ha). Mayfield nest success in biking sites (n = 33) was 35% compared to 70% in non-biking sites (n = 22). Nest abandonment was three times greater in biking areas (15%) than non-biking areas (5%). Seven nests were depredated in biking sites, but only two nests were depredated in non-biking sites. Texas rat snakes (Elaphe obsoleta) were the most frequent nest predator at biking sites, accounting for 71% of the prdations. We conducted behavioral observations of male Golden-cheeked Warblers in biking (n = 139) and non-biking (n = 204) sites. Males spent similar amounts of time in diurnal behaviors in biking and non-biking sites. We used video-camera systems to record female nesting behaviors at 17 nests in biking sites and 15 nests in non-biking sites. Nesting behaviors of females did not differ between biking and nonbiking sites. The cumulative effect of disturbance from mountain biking trail use on Golden-cheeked Warbler foraging and nesting behavior appears to be minimal, but fragmentation and alteration of habitat by mountain biking trails may reduce quality of nesting habitat for Golden-cheeked Warblers.
40962169|The winter population ecology of American Kestrel (Falco sparverius), one of the most abundant and widely distributed raptors in North America, is poorly understood. We systematically searched a 225-km area in Cape Coral, southwestern Florida, for American Kestrels during 14 winters (1 Dec-15 Mar, 1994-2008) to measure their annual apparent survival and to see if individuals returned to the same wintering area. We recaptured 101 of 2,958 banded kestrels during the study. We estimated annual apparent survival of 75% for males and 74% for females using a Cormack-Jolly-Seber model. These estimates are considerably higher than previous estimates for American Kestrels, but are similar to estimates reported for other species of Falco. Forty-six percent of the kestrels estimated to have survived were observed in the study area 1 year after recapture, based on year-specific color banding. All but six of 101 kestrels were recaptured within 1 km of where they were banded. Four of five kestrels banded as nestlings and subsequently recaptured in the study area were banded in southeastern Pennsylvania, suggesting migratory connectivity. Eighty percent of the kestrels trapped were females, but the proportion of females decreased annually (-3  1% per year). Overall, the population decreased by an average of 7  2% per year. Recent land-use change accompanied by increased human density and suburban expansion may be causing the observed trends.
40962170|Each year thousands of Pacific Black Brant (Branta bermela nigricans) undergo flightless wing molt in the Teshekpuk Lake Special Area (TLSA), Alaska, in two distinct habitats: inland, freshwater lakes and coastal, brackish wetlands. Brant lose body mass during wing molt and likely must add reserves upon regaining flight to help fuel their 2,500 km migration to autumn staging areas. We characterized movements and habitat use by Brant during post-molt (the period immediately following the recovery of flight) by (1) marking individual Brant with GPS (global positioning system) transmitters, and (2) conducting a series of replicate aerial surveys. Individuals molting in inland habitats promptly abandoned their molt wetland during the post-molt and moved into coastal habitats. Consequently, inland habitats were nearly deserted by early August when Brant had regained flight, a decrease of > 5,000 individuals from the flightless period of early July. Conversely, coastal molting Brant largely remained in coastal habitats during the post-molt and many coastal wetlands were occupied by large flocks (> 1,000 birds). Our results indicate that inland, freshwater wetlands were less suitable post-molt habitats for Brant, while coastal wetlands were preferred as they transitioned from flightless molt. The immediacy with which Brant vacated inland habitats upon regaining flight suggests that food may be limiting during molt and they are not selecting inland molt sites strictly for food resources, but rather a balance of factors including predator avoidance and acquisition of protein for feather growth. Our data clearly demonstrate that patterns of habitat use by Brant in the TLSA change over the course of the molt season, an important consideration for management of future resource development activities in this area.
40962171|We tested the hypothesis that foraging for arthropods may be a viable source of energy when hummingbirds are competitively excluded from sources of nectar. We hypothesized that the Magnificent Hummingbird (Eugenes fulgens) relies more upon arthropods than the Blue-throated Hummingbird (Lampornis clemenciae) or Blackchinned Hummingbird (Archilochus alexandri) in southeastern Arizona. We were unable to quantify arthropod foraging by A. alexandri, but measured frequent arthropod foraging by both E. fulgens and L. clemenciae. E. fulgens engaged in more aerial flycatching than L. clemenciae, and their rate of flycatching attempts was higher than by L. clemenciae. Analysis of gut contents showed that E. fulgens consumes the greatest diversity of arthropods. Respiratory quotient measurements indicated E. fulgens catabolized a greater amount of fat/protein than the other species. Gut morphology of E. fulgens does not appear to differ from other hummingbirds suggesting hummingbirds in general may have the ability to use arthropods as an alternative energy source when access to floral energy is restricted. Our data are consistent with the hypothesis that the diet of E. fulgens includes more arthropods than other species with which they compete.
40962172|We quantified resident and migrant bird attendance at army ant swarm raids (n = 48) in a neotropical montane forest. All observations were during seasons when Nearctic migrant birds are present. Bird species differed in army ant raid-attending behavior. Resident bird species attended 2 to 54% of raids, while migrants attended at lower maximum frequencies (2 to 21% of raids attended per species). Some resident and migrant bird species attended raids more frequently than expected based on capture rates in mist-net studies and point-count density surveys. Army ant raid attendance may be a regular element of foraging behavior for some resident species, and important in the wintering ecology of some Nearctic migrant species. The bird species that attended raids most frequently were predicted to show behavioral specializations for exploiting army ant swarms. Eight resident bird species (but no migrants) performed a specialized behavior, bivouac checking, by which birds sample army ant activity. Resident bird species' frequencies of raid attendance were positively associated with frequency of checking bivouacs (r = 0.68). We hypothesize the absence of obligate army ant-following birds in montane forests has favored performance of specialized behaviors for exploiting army ant raids by some resident birds.
40962173|The Maroon-fronted Parrot (Rhynchopsitta terrisi) is a threatened species endemic to pine-oak (Pinus spp.-Quercus spp.) forests in "sky islands" of the Sierra Madre Oriental in Mexico. We measured parrot (n = 10) home ranges during the breeding season (19992001) using radiotelemetry. Home ranges varied among years: 1999 = 12,379.05 ha, 2000 = 8,633.82 ha, and 2001 = 4,736.75 ha. Differences in home range size may reflect variation in distribution, abundance, and patchiness of food. Daily movements in 1999 were estimated as 23.6 km versus 13.7 km in 2000 and 26.8 km in 2001. Habitat preferences within the Pinus forest varied among nesting seasons. Preference in 1999 was for Pinus-Abies-Pseudotsuga forest and in 2000 and 2001 it was for Pinus forest and chaparral. This variation may be influenced by nesting behavior. Rapid landscape changes may necessitate planting and conserving pine forest to regenerate areas for long term conservation of Maroon-fronted Parrots.
40962174|We investigated how variation in fire severity (control or no fire; low, medium, and high severity fires) and interval (1-2 years vs. 3-6 years after fires) affected habitat and avian abundance, species diversity, richness, and evenness in the southern Appalachian Mountains. Fire severity and interval had significant implications for both habitat and avian communities. Species richness within 2 years of fires was on average 26% higher in areas receiving medium and high severity treatments than in unburned control units. Species diversity and species richness were markedly greater 36 years after fires within high severity treatments (12 and 44%, respectively), compared to unburned controls. Relative abundance and species evenness did not vary with fire severity or time since fire. The short-term effects of low severity fires, or high severity fires with short rotation periods ( 2 years) may have limited positive effects on avian communities. Facilitation of disturbance regimes including mid to high severity fires, which foster uneven-aged forests, can be an effective conservation tool for restoring avian communities.
40962175|We surveyed male breeding birds in five habitats (bottomland forest, maritime oak [Quercus spp.], pine [Pinus spp.] forest, maritime shrub, saltmarsh) of coastal Georgia, USA using distance-sampling methods to estimate population densities. We examined species-habitat relationships using indicator species analysis (ISA). Acadian Flycatcher (Empidonax virescens) in bottomland forest, Northern Parula (Parula americana) in maritime oak, Brown-headed Nuthatch (Sitta pusilla) in pine forest, Clapper Rail (Rallus longirostris) in saltmarsh, and White-eyed Vireo (Vireo griseus) in shrub habitat ranked highest for Partners in Flight (PIF) priority species by densities. The ISA indicated fewer PIF priority species were associated with saltmarsh, but more species (6) were unique to saltmarsh than any other habitat. Indicator species occurred more often in maritime oak than bottomland forest (8 vs. 6), but both habitats had similar numbers of PIF priority species (4). Shrub habitat covered the smallest area (~0.2%) and had three PIF priority species, including Painted Bunting (Passerina ciris), the only PIF species with extremely high priority in this study.
40962176|We investigated avian use of clearcuts and two-age harvests during the post-breeding period in 2006 in the central Appalachians, West Virginia, USA with an information-theoretic approach to model selection. Cover variables appeared to be most important; e.g., vegetative vertical complexity had a strong positive relation with capture rates of mature forest birds and molting adults, as well as physical condition which supports a predator-avoidance hypothesis for habitat use. Basal area was a poor predictor of captures; residual trees near nets tended to depress capture rates. Food variables best explained capture rates for some species groups (e.g., early-successional insectivores and granivores, mature forest nesting adults, molting birds), but post-breeding habitat quality was based primarily on vegetative cover. Habitat use may depend on the bird's physical condition and molt status, and we found evidence for age-specific differences which may impact survival. Our study suggests important links between post-breeding habitat quality, molt status, physical condition, and bird age, and indicates a variety of response variables (relative abundance, survival, body condition) should be measured to assess avian habitat quality during the post-breeding period.
40962177|We conducted the first country-wide survey between 1994 and 2002 to examine the distribution, abundance, and conservation status of Sandhill Crane (Grus canadensis nesiotes) populations throughout Cuba. Ground or air surveys or both were conducted at all identified potential areas and locations previously reported in the literature. We define the current distribution as 10 separate localities in six provinces and the estimated total number of cranes at 526 individuals for the country. Two populations reported in the literature were no longer present and two localities not previously reported were discovered. The actual number of cranes at two localities was not possible to evaluate due to their rarity. Only four areas (Isle of Youth, Matanzas, Ciego de Avila, and Sancti Spiritus) each support more than 70 cranes. The remaining locations each have less than 25 individuals. Sandhill Cranes appear to be declining and have almost disappeared in Pinar del Rio and Granma provinces, and in northern Matanzas Province. Identified threats to the remaining populations include habitat modification (woody plant encroachment, agricultural expansion, and fire suppression), predation due to wild hogs (Sus scrofa), dogs (Canis lupus familiaris), mongoose (Crossarchus spp.), and poaching.
40962178|Dippers (Cinclidae) are the only passerines that find their prey almost exclusively under water. We examined the breast feathers of the five species of dippers for barb diameter and spacing. These results were compared with those measured for other bird families, both aquatic and terrestrial, to detect the presence of any adaptation in the structure of their plumage to their aquatic lifestyle. Barb diameters (2r) were about the same for all dipper species at ~25 m, but spacing (2d) varied from ~150 to 215 m. Dipper feathers exhibited large values for (r + d)/r, the structural requirement for excellent water repellency, comparable to that of many other terrestrial birds including starlings (Sturnidae), swifts (Apodidae), and nightjars (Caprimulgidae). A slightly improved resistance to water penetration, indicated by a smaller value for (r + d)/r, was observed for White-throated Dipper (Cinclus cinclus), whereas increased water repellency was found for both American (C. mexicanus) and Brown dippers (C. pallasii). Each of these three species is known to dive. No adaptations were observed for White-capped (C. leucocephalus) and Rufous-throated (C. schulzi) dippers, neither of which dive. The breast feathers of dippers have evolved excellent water repellency, but diving dippers show further adaptations for improved resistance to water penetration and water repellency to allow under-water foraging.
40962179|Open pit bitumen extraction is capable of causing mass mortality events of resident and migratory birds. We investigated annual avian mortality in the tailings ponds of the Athabasca tar sands region, in northeastern Alberta, Canada. We analyzed three types of data: government-industry reported mortalities; empirical studies of bird deaths at tailings ponds; and rates of landing, oiling, and mortality to quantify annual bird mortality due to exposure to tailings ponds. Ad hoc self-reported data from industry indicate an annual mortality due to tailings pond exposure in northeastern Alberta of 65 birds. The self-reported data were internally inconsistent and appeared to underestimate actual mortality. Scientific data indicate an annual mortality in the range of 458 to 5,029 birds, which represents an unknown fraction of true mortality. Government-overseen monitoring within a statistically valid design, standardized across all facilities, is needed. Systematic monitoring and accurate, timely reporting would provide data useful to all concerned with bird conservation and management in the tar sands region.
40962180|The Llanos is a significant waterbird site in the Western Hemisphere, but abundance and distribution of waterbirds across this vast region are poorly known, which hampers conservation initiatives. We used point counts along road routes in the Llanos region of Venezuela to examine abundance and distribution of waterbirds during 20002002 within five ecoregions across the Llanos. We detected 69 species of waterbirds and recorded 283,566 individuals, of which 10 species accounted for 80% of our observations. Wading birds (Ciconiiformes) represented the largest guild both in numbers of species (26) and individuals (55%), followed by waterfowl (26%), and shorebirds (11%). Five species comprised 62% of all individuals: Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis), White-faced Whistling Duck (Dendrocygna viduata), Black-bellied Whistling Duck (D. autumnalis), Great Egret (Ardea alba), and Wattled Jacana (Jacana jacana). Wading birds were particularly ubiquitous with at least 21 of 26 species recorded in each of the ecoregions. Species richness (66), proportion of waterbirds detected (54%), and mean number of birds per route (1,459) were highest in the Banco-Bajio-Estero savanna ecoregion. Our study provides the most comprehensive data set available on waterbirds in the Llanos of Venezuela and highlights regions of special conservation concern.
40962181|Migratory birds arriving in breeding areas should select territories that maximize reproduction and survival. Prey available prior to egg laying may be as important as prey availability for chicks later in the season. We sampled benthic and terrestrial prey items in Piping Plover (Charadrius melodus) foraging habitat soon after they arrived in breeding areas in New York during 2001-2003. Benthic invertebrates in the sand flats were abundant and available to adults, whereas terrestrial arthropods typically used later in the season were sparse in all cover types. Foraging adults selected intertidal sand flats over other microhabitats. One benefit of nesting near sand flats apparently is abundant food upon arrival in breeding areas. Protecting habitat between arrival in breeding areas and territory establishment is uncommon but warranted for this threatened species.
40962182|We report a male Cerulean Warbler (Dendroica cerulea) singing a highly accurate version of another species' song (Hooded Warbler; Wilsonia citrina), as well as a typical Cerulean Warbler song. We performed playback experiments to examine the manner in which this bird used, and responded to, the different songs. He responded aggressively (wing flicks and garbled song), and with his Cerulean Warbler song, to recorded versions of two different types of Cerulean Warbler songs, including a type that he was not observed singing. He did not respond in any manner to playback of Hooded Warbler song.
40962183|We describe the nest and eggs of two Philippine endemic passerines, the Rusty-faced Babbler (Robsonius rabori) and the Blue-breasted Blue Flycatcher (Cyornis herioti). We also describe a novel type of nest and nest placement for the Short-crested Monarch (Hypothymis helenae), and provide the first description of the eggs of this species. We discuss similarities among eggs and nests of these species with their relatives, and the need for more information regarding natural history and breeding habits for the Philippine avifauna.
40962184|The first of several nests (previously undescribed) of the Azure-crowned Hummingbird (Amazilia cyanocephala) was found on 20 February 2009 along the Ro Pixquiac in Coatepec, Veracruz on the Gulf of Mexico side of the Sierra Madre Oriental of Mexico. The cup-shaped nest consisted of fibers and scales of tree ferns with the outside covered with liverworts and a few mosses and lichens. It was saddled on a thin, horizontal branch and had one "tail" of hanging liverworts, longer than the height of the nest cup, draped beneath the nest. It eventually contained two white, non-glossy eggs that were long-elliptical in shape, measuring roughly 13.5  7.5 mm. Other nests of the species discovered subsequently were similar in construction and placed on branches or substrates of different plant species. Observations of nest building, eggs, and incubation behavior at the first nest were generally consistent with descriptions for other Amazilia hummingbirds.
40962185|The Garden Emerald (Chlorostilbon assimilis) is endemic to southwestern Costa Rica and Panama, and knowledge about its' reproductive habits is limited. We describe the nest and nestlings of the Garden Emerald based on a nest found in La Amistad International Park. The nest was built on an anthropogenic substrate, and was similar to nests described for other emerald species. However, unlike other emeralds, the nest contained no lichens, mosses, or ferns. The nestlings resembled adult female plumage, similar to that for other nestling emerald species.
40962186|The Cip Canastero (Asthenes luizae) is a recently described species from the Espinhao Range, southeastern Brazil. We describe the nest, eggs, and nestlings of this species. Six nests were found in four different territories, two of which were active. All nests were in Vellozia nivea (Velloziaceae). Mean measurements were: height above ground = 21.8 cm, entrance diameter = 4.3 cm, nest length = 23.5 cm, nest height = 23.3 cm, and nest width = 20.3 cm. Both active nests were parasitized by Shiny Cowbirds (Molothrus bonariensis).
40962187|We studied use of nest boxes by Great Tits (Parus major) in rural village gardens in a semi-arid area. Great Tits occupied 46.6% of the nest boxes, and used nest boxes within higher tree densities and with more tree species in the vicinity. Breeding success was greater in nest boxes with higher plant density, more plant species, and greater height of trees in the vicinity of the nest. The presence of children or dogs (Canis lupus familiaris) near nest boxes did not affect breeding parameters. Syrian Woodpeckers (Dendrocopos syriacus) enlarged 38.0% of nest box entrances during the first year. House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) occupied 41.0% of the nest boxes with enlarged holes and none of those with normal holes. Great Tits occupied both types, but significantly fewer pairs breeding in nest boxes with enlarged holes succeeded in fledging at least one young, probably due to their eviction by the larger House Sparrows.
40962188|The Resplendent Quetzal (Pharomachrus mocinno) is of particular conservation concern because of its iconic status in Central American culture. This species is a secondary cavity nester and modifies abandoned woodpecker nest sites in dead tree trunks (i.e., snags). We used 11 historical nest sites, reported in 1969, from Atitlan, Guatemala and 10 recent nest sites from San Gerardo de Dota, Costa Rica to examine if a relationship exists between nest and snag height. There were significant differences between Costa Rica and Guatemala in both nest height (6.3 vs. 10 m, respectively; t-test = 2.49, P = 0.042) and snag height (8.1 vs. 14.0 m, respectively; t-test = -2.39, P = 0.033). There was no difference in nest heights relative to snag heights for Costa Rica (0.76) and Guatemala (0.77; t-test = 0.20, P = 0.84). One aspect of conservation efforts for this species has been placement of nest boxes to provide nesting sites for additional pairs. Our results provide a better understanding of placement requirements for nest boxes to encourage their use anywhere within the range of the species.
40962189|Nest parasitism in dabbling ducks is uncommon. Northern Shovelers (Anas clypeata) are considered infrequent parasites and Blue-winged Teal (A. discors) are rarely hosts to nest parasitism. We documented parasitism of a Blue-winged Teal nest by a Northern Shoveler. We reviewed 3,003 records from nests located in 1994 to 1997 in North Dakota and documented only one duck nest parasitized by a Northern Shoveler. Only nine of 1,494 Blue-winged Teal nests were parasitized. We found no evidence of Northern Shovelers parasitizing Blue-winged Teal nests in our nest records and only one account in the literature.
40962190|We used time-lapse video cameras and track plates to identify nest predators of Red-faced Warblers (Cardellina rubrifrons) and Yellow-eyed Juncos (Junco phaeonotus) in high-elevation (> 2,300 m) forests of the Santa Catalina Mountains in southeastern Arizona. Mammals, especially gray fox (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) and cliff chipmunk (Tamias dorsalis), were the principal nest predators of Redfaced Warblers and Yellow-eyed Juncos within our study system, accounting for 89% of all nest depredations. Our study is one of the first to use video cameras at real nests to document the prevalence of nest predators in montane forest ecosystems. Additional research is needed to learn if mammals are the dominant nest predators in other montane environments.
40962191|We report on a mixed brood of Great (Parus major) and Varied (Poecile varius) tits. The brood consisted of one Great Tit and five Varied Tits. Incubation and food provisioning to nestlings were by adult Varied Tits, but not by adult Great Tits. The foreign Great Tit nestling tended to receive more food than the average Varied Tit nestling. Provisioning of the foreign Great Tit by Varied Tits lasted even after fledging. We discuss the causes and outcomes of this rare phenomenon.
40962192|We videotaped an Eastern Phoebe (Sayornis phoebe) nest in central Kentucky on 22 June 2008 and documented a case of infanticide. An adult male phoebe, likely the resident male, was captured at the nest site on 21 June 2008. The resident female fed nestlings (3, ~8 days of age) 69 times during a 4.1-hr taping session (0815-1221 hrs EDT) the next day, but the resident male was not observed at the nest. Beginning at 0923 hrs, an intruding phoebe (likely a male) occasionally visited the nest, sometimes pecking at, but not feeding, the nestlings; this phoebe initiated a vigorous attack at 1151 hrs, pecking and pulling the head of one of the nestlings for 25 min before pulling it out of the nest. The intruding phoebe returned after a short absence, just before the end of the videotape, and began attacking another nestling. The nest was empty when checked the next day. Suitable territories and nest sites may be limiting factors for Eastern Phoebes, and infanticide by non-breeding males may enhance their reproductive success if the resident female or a new female subsequently pairs with the male and initiates a new nest.
40962193|We report an observation of a Marsh Wren (Cistothorus palustris) eating a small fish. On 29 November 2008, a Marsh Wren was observed catching and consuming a small fish, probably a mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis), in a coastal marsh in Jefferson County, Texas. Marsh Wrens are known to eat invertebrates, primarily insects and spiders, and we believe this is the first record of a Marsh Wren capturing and consuming vertebrate prey.
40962194|The first instance of vocal mimicry is reported for the western subspecies of Curve-billed Thrasher (Toxostoma curvirostre palmeri). A Curvebilled Thrasher engaged in countersinging with a migrating Black-headed Grosbeak (Pheucticus melanocephalus) near Tucson, Arizona. Night-time singing by Curve-billed Thrasher is also documented for the first time. At least three responding Curve-billed Thrashers engaged in spontaneous song near Tucson, Arizona. Additional night-time singing was elicited by playback recordings.
40962332|Henslow's Sparrows (Ammodramus henslowii) are reported to have irregular patterns of return to breeding areas. I present data supporting these reports at rangewide extents, while testing potential biases inherent in the North American Breeding Bird Survey data. Two measures of population variability were used to show that Henslow's Sparrows are less likely to use breeding areas predictably and consistently, but have similar variance in numbers at occupied sites relative to other sympatric grassland sparrow species. I illustrate how restricting analyses to single-observer-collected Breeding Bird Survey data results in subtle but significant effects not detected in data aggregated from multiple observers through the study period. The most conservative analysis (single-observer, restricted distribution) showed that Henslow's Sparrows exhibited lower prevalence of occurrence than Grasshopper (Ammodramus savannarum) (P < 0.001) and Savannah (Passerculus sandwichensis) (P < 0.001) sparrows but no difference in variation of abundance (P > 0.05). These results suggest Henslow's Sparrows are not returning to previously used breeding habitat from year-to-year. Grassland management should consider the behavior documented in this study and attempt to incorporate this facet of Henslow's Sparrow biology into decisions that involve broad-scale landscape design.
40962333|We examined the influence of woody vegetation on reclaimed surface mines on relative abundance of Grasshopper Sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum), Henslow's Sparrows (A. henslowii), Eastern Meadowlarks (Sturnella magna), Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis), Bobolinks (Dolichonyx oryzivorus), and Dickcissels (Spiza americana) as well as nest-site selection and nesting success of Grasshopper and Henslow's sparrows and Eastern Meadowlarks. Grasshopper and Henslow's sparrows were the most abundant grassland species on reclaimed mines. Numbers of Grasshopper, Henslow's, and Savannah sparrows, and Bobolinks were negatively associated with percent cover of woody vegetation within 100 m of survey locations. Only Grasshopper Sparrows responded to woody vegetation at nestpatch scales, as random locations had > 2.5 times as much woody cover as nest locations. Daily nest survival (DNS) was negatively associated with amount of woody vegetation within 100 m of Grasshopper (DNS 0.76  0.001 SE) and Henslow's sparrow nests (DNS 0.94  0.020 SE), but only marginally negatively related to daily nest survival of Eastern Meadowlark nests (DNS 0.87  0.006 SE). Avoidance of woody vegetation by grassland birds and the comparatively lower daily nest survival of Grasshopper and Henslow's sparrow nests near woody vegetation suggests managers of reclaimed surface mines who manage to conserve grassland birds should direct efforts towards reducing woody encroachment.
40962334|We studied the effects of breeding stage and behavioral context on the singing behavior of male Indigo Buntings (Passerina cyanea; n = 15) during the 2004 breeding season in Madison County, Kentucky, USA, to better understand how males with a single-song repertoire vary the characteristics of their song to convey different information. Playback experiments were conducted in 2005 in territories of focal males (n = 14) to further examine the possible effect of male-male interactions on singing behavior. We analyzed 10,919 songs of 15 male Indigo Buntings with songs consisting of a series of figures that were usually paired (i.e., phrases). Mean song duration was 2.30  0.13 (SE) sec (range = 1.44-3.40 sec) with males varying song duration by varying the number of figures and phrases in each song. Singing rates varied significantly (P < 0.0001) among breeding stages and were highest prior to pairing, suggesting singing has a role in mate attraction. Singing rates also differed (P = 0.013) during playback experiments with rates higher during playback and postplayback periods (x = 4.4 songs/min) than during the pre-playback period (x = 2.9 songs/min). These results suggest that singing also has a role in territory defense. Songs of male buntings tended to be shorter prior to pairing and were generally longer in duration after pairing. Playback experiments revealed that bunting songs were longer (P = 0.03) during and after playback (x = 2.6 sec) than during the pre-playback period (x = 2.0 sec). These results suggest male Indigo Buntings vary singing rates and song duration to convey different information, appearing to use shorter songs uttered at high rates to attract mates and longer songs to convey aggression during male-male interactions.
40962335|Onset of incubation was studied in three Hermit Thrushes (Catharus guttatus) and one American Robin (Turdus migratorus), all with four-egg clutches, at a high altitude site in the Sierra Nevada, California, USA. Behavior of laying females at the nest was measured from continuous recordings of internal egg temperatures of first-laid eggs. Full nocturnal nest attentiveness began immediately with the first egg. Daytime attentiveness increased steadily during laying as foraging time away from the nest decreased. On-off bouts by tending females in daytime increased in frequency and decreased in duration until the last egg was laid. Time on the nest could not be directly equated to occurrence of incubation because eggs were not uniformly warmed to exceed the temperature threshold required for embryonic development (physiological zero). Incubation began, both day and night, after laying of the second egg. It increased steadily thereafter with percentage of daytime devoted to incubation lagging well behind that of nighttime. Nest attentiveness and incubation temperatures reached maxima about the time of clutch completion and were continued during following days.
40962336|We studied the consequences of nest-site choice on nesting success under differing disturbance levels for the Rufous-bellied Thrush (Turdus rufiventris). We compared nest-site choice and nest success between a disturbed site and an undisturbed site in a montane subtropical forest in northwestern Argentina. We found no overall difference in daily predation rate (DPR) between the disturbed and undisturbed sites. However, DPR of nests on bromeliads was significantly lower at the microhabitat level than on other types of subtrates at the disturbed site. T. rufiventris used bromeliads for nesting more often than expected by chance at the disturbed site. DPR did not differ between substrates at the undisturbed site and T. rufiventris used all substrates according to their availability. Nests had higher predation at the disturbed site when DPR on non-bromeliad substrates was compared between disturbed and undisturbed sites. Nest fate was independent of nest height. Our results suggest T. rufiventris' flexibility in nest-site choice, as reflected by increased use of the safest sites, i.e., bromeliads, in the disturbed site compared to the undisturbed site, may allow this species to survive in an otherwise much riskier habitat. Our results illustrate how microhabitat-scale effects can mediate landscape scale effects.
40962337|We studied the breeding biology of the Taiwan Barbet (Megalaima nuchalis) in the Taipei Botanical Garden (TBG) during the 2008 and 2009 breeding seasons. Breeding pairs produced a mean of 1.8 broods per season and had a mean clutch size of 3.0 eggs. The mean incubation period was 13.8 days, and both parents shared incubation. The mean nestling period was ~ 27.5 days, considerably shorter than that of other Asian barbets. The shorter nestling period may be related to the low fledgling success rate, multiple broods per season, and constant animal matter food in TBG throughout the entire nesting period. Ambient temperature influenced the amount of time spent by adults inside the nest cavity incubating eggs and brooding nestlings. Adult males provided more food to nestlings than adult females, while adult females cleaned the nest more often than males. The overall egg-to-fledgling success rate was low at 32.8%, because of infertile eggs and failure of eggs with embryos to hatch, abandonment, anthropogenic disturbances, prdation, weather disturbances, and other unknown factors.
40962338|We present the first detailed information on the breeding biology of the Golden-faced Tyrannulet (Zimmerius chrysops). Information was gathered from 96 nests in Yacamb National Park, Venezuela during the 2002 to 2008 breeding seasons. The enclosed nest was similar to descriptions of nests of other species in the genus. Eggs were laid on alternate days with mean ( SE) clutch size of 1.98  0.02 (n = 45) and fresh weight of 1.616  0.020 g (n = 48). Only the female incubated and the incubation period averaged 16.9  0.3 days (n = 10). Nest attentiveness (% time on the nest) averaged 66.0  1.6% (n = 40) and increased from early to mid- and late-incubation. Incubation behavior yielded an average 24-hr egg temperature of 34.88  0.45 C (n = 7 nests, 43 days). The nestling growth rate constant for body mass (k = 0.285  0.011) was slow even for tropical tyrannids. The nestling period for nests where exact hatch and fledging days were observed ranged from 17 to 19 days with an average of 18.0  0. 2 days (n = 9). Both females and males fed nestlings at a rate that increased over the nestling period with a mean of 4.41  0.65 trips/hr (n = 10) during days 1 and 2 after hatching, and 14.93  2.36 trips/hr (n = 6) at pin-break (days 10-11). Daily predation rates were similar in egg-laying (0.052  0.025; n = 76.5 exposure days) and incubation periods (0.068  0.010; n = 575.5 exposure days), but were lower during the nestling period (0.039  0.010; n = 377.0 exposure days). The total daily prdation rate (0.057  0.007; n = 989.0 exposure days) indicated only 12% of nests were successful. These breeding biology parameters for Z. chrysops differ substantially from other tyrant-flycatchers and temperate species, further highlighting the diversity within the Tyrannidae.
40962339|Relatively little is known about Arctic Warblers (Phylloscopus borealis) that breed in central Alaska. We monitored Arctic Warbler populations in two adjacent but distinct habitat types in central Alaska (high elevation, 'open shrub' and lower elevation, 'dense shrub'). We collected 95 nests over three breeding seasons to learn more about nestbuilding behavior, nest mass, composition, fledging success, and nest parasites. Females were the sole builders of ground nests, which were primarily comprised of moss, grass, and a lining of moose (Alces alces) hair. Dry weight of nests was ~ 20 g, but differed up to ~ 3-fold within each habitat type each season. Nests from open shrub habitats were more massive and contained less moose hair lining than nests in dense shrub. Open shrub nests fledged more young during the most productive breeding season. We report the first record of the parasitic blowfly Protocalliphora tundrae in Arctic Warbler nests and for Alaska. Blowfly parasitism (55% of nests with hatchlings) was similar in both habitat types and did not correlate with fledging success, or nest mass. Nests with greater amounts of moss tended to have lower levels of blowfly infestation.
40962340|We located 39 Mississippi Kite (Ictinia mississippiensis) nests during the 2004 and 2005 breeding seasons in the White River National Wildlife Refuge in the Mississippi Alluvial Valley of Arkansas, USA. Radio transmitters were placed on seven adult and eight juvenile kites; 649 locations based on ground telemetry and 393 locations from aircraft were recorded for six adults (n = 5 males, 1 female) and five juveniles (n = 2 males, 3 females). The mean 90% kernel home range was 3,098 ha for adult kites (n = 6) and 439 ha (n = 5) for juveniles. Radio-marked Mississippi Kites significantly used mature forest (65.6%), second growth (15.5%), and water (10.0%) relative to availability (59.6, 11.5, and 7.1%, respectively). Agriculture fields (6.5%) and wetlands (1.5%) were used significantly less within the home ranges of kites relative to availability (17.6 and 3.9%, respectively). Tree height, diameter at breast height (dbh), and height of nest tree emergence above the surrounding trees were significantly greater for nest sites than randomly-selected overstory trees. Nest trees were significantly closer to the edge than randomly-selected trees. Most (57%) Mississippi Kite nests were in crotches of secondary branches in the nest tree. Conservation of super-emergent trees and mature forests is needed for nesting and foraging areas. Second-growth forest should be allowed to mature (> 75 years) and uniform canopies should be avoided.
40962341|A tradition of shooting Common Loons (Gavia immer) for food and for bone fishing lures was established on Shackleford Banks, North Carolina, by the mid-19th century. This strongly ingrained tradition continued to be maintained, primarily by residents of nearby Harkers Island, when inhabitants of the banks moved inland about 1899. The practice probably arose because, on the east/west-tending Shackleford Banks, loons migrating northward in spring flew sufficiently low over land to be within shotgun range. Spring loon shooting, although illegal since 1918, grew to the point that dozens of hunters might be present on the banks on a given day. A strict law enforcement crackdown on this activity began in 1950, and the banks were effectively shut down for loon shooting. Loons continued to be shot opportunistically nearby, but a growing cultural intolerance of this practice brought the loon hunting tradition to an end. We document the existing memories and the few, scattered written sources concerning this unique local interaction between humans and birds.
40962342|We compared the distribution of migrant bird species between two islands in the Gulf of Maine to examine if differences in habitat resulted in differences in avian species composition and relative abundance during stopover. Ninety-one species were captured on both islands and those species captured on only one island were either breeding species or rare visitors to the islands. Differences in bird species distribution between islands were species-specific and consistent among sampling periods for nearly all species. Twelve species were captured more frequently on Star Island and 11 species more frequently on Appledore Island. Stopover species distribution appeared to be related to habitat structure, vegetation, diet, and habitat area. Scrub-shrub/open habitat breeding species and forest breeding species were not evenly distributed between islands. Island use was most closely associated with breeding habitat. All but two of the eight species that breed in scrub-shrub or open habitat were captured more frequently on Star Island. Ten of the species more common on Appledore Island breed in forested habitat. Nine of the 11 species more common on Appledore Island are areasensitive in breeding areas, suggesting potential area sensitivity during migration. Differential habitat use indicates a large number of stopover sites in a wide variety of habitats are necessary to meet migration needs of passerine species.
40962343|I describe large volume morning flights of migrant songbirds in autumn along the south shore of Lake Pontchartrain, Louisiana, USA. These flights have at times exceeded 10,000 birds/hr since their discovery in 2002, ranking the site among the continent's highest volume regular migratory songbird concentration locations. Migrants move in "reverse" direction northeastward up a peninsula in Lake Pontchartrain, and fly across a 9-km water gap to reach the north shore, usually struggling into a headwind. Flights are dominated by Yellow and Yellow-rumped warblers (Dendroica petechia and D. coronata), Eastern Kingbird (Tyrannus tyrannus), Indigo Bunting (Passerina cyanea), Cedar Waxwing (Bombycilla cedrorum), and American Robin (Turdus migratorius) during their respective migratory peaks. These species have exceeded 800 birds/hr, and 70 other small landbird species have been recorded. Flights of > 100 birds/hr were more frequent after nights with more hours of northerly winds.
40962344|Avian collision fatality data from studies conducted at 30 wind farms across North America were examined to estimate how many night migrants collide with turbines and towers, and how aviation obstruction lighting relates to collision fatalities. Fatality rates, adjusted for scavenging and searcher efficiency, of night migrants at turbines 54 to 125 m in height ranged from <1 bird/turbine/year to ~ 7 birds/turbine/year with higher rates recorded in eastern North America and lowest rates in the west. Multi-bird fatality events (defined as >3 birds killed in 1 night at 1 turbine) were rare, recorded at <0.02% (n = 4) of ~25,000 turbine searches. Lighting and weather conditions may have been causative factors in the four documented multi-bird fatality events, but flashing red lights (L-864, recommended by the Federal Aviation Administration [FAA]) were not involved, which is the most common obstruction lighting used at wind farms. A Wilcoxon signed-rank analysis of unadjusted fatality rates revealed no significant differences between fatality rates at turbines with FAA lights as opposed to turbines without lighting at the same wind farm.
40962345|We studied androgen production during development in nestling Eastern Screech-Owls (Megascops asio) and hypothesized that gender and hatch order might influence serum levels of testosterone and androstenedione. Testosterone levels were highest immediately after hatching and declined significantly in the 4 weeks leading to fledging. The average level of testosterone for 1-7 day-old owls was 3.99  0.68 ng/ml. At 22-28 days of age, the average testosterone level for nestling owls was 0.83  0.18 ng/ml. Testosterone levels did not differ between males or females. The average testosterone level for male nestlings was 2.23  0.29 ng/ml and 2.39  0.56 ng/ml for female nestlings. The average level of androstenedione for nestling owls was 1.92  0.11 ng/ml and levels remained constant throughout development. Levels were significantly higher in males than females. The average androstenedione level was 1.77  0.16 ng/ml for male nestlings and 1.05  0.24 ng/ml for female nestlings. Hatching order did not affect levels of either androgen. Our results provide a foundation for future studies of androgen production by nestling owls.
40962346|Development of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and subsequent corticosterone (CORT) release in newly hatched birds is a balance between limiting exposure to the detrimental effects of CORT on growth and development, and the necessity of mounting an acute stress response. We measured the stress responsiveness of juvenile Chukar (Alectoris chukar) 20 to 60 days post-hatch prior to molting into full adult plumage. The integrated CORT response during 60 min of restraint in these individuals decreased with age. Comparisons to mean adult integrated CORT values imply the youngest juveniles have greater responses than adults while the oldest juveniles have reduced CORT responses. This pattern is currently an anomaly within the altricial-precocial range and suggests specific tradeoffs, such as molting into adult plumage, may affect timing of HPA suppression during development.
40962347|I summarize the 10-year composition dynamics of a riparian avifauna on the Arapaho National Wildlife Refuge, Colorado, USA. Only 15 of the 89 breeding bird species (19,393 individuals) were present each of the 10 years whereas 25 species were only recorded in a single year. Number of species in any given year ranged from 30 to 57 (34 to 64% of the 10-year cumulative species total). The number of species detected >1 and <10 years represented over half of all species with no pattern of either increasing or decreasing across years of study. Short-term definitions of species richness preclude the ability to define the major dynamic within an avian assemblagespecies that use the site an intermediate number of years. Understanding the ecological prerequisites for these species should provide greater insight into current physical habitat and climate changes occurring on-site.
40962348|Avian mapping, also known as spot mapping or territory mapping, is a breeding season bird-survey technique that traditionally uses paper maps on which locations of birds are recorded. This method is often considered the most accurate in yielding a density, but has been criticized as being inefficient, time consuming, and inexact. We describe a novel digital-mapping method, incorporating a hand-held computer and high-accuracy global positioning system receiver (GPS), used in an ongoing boreal birds study. Digital mapping surpassed our expectations as to efficiency, flexibility, and work flow. We expect this method will become increasingly useful in many types of field studies, especially as costs decrease (currently ~$2,100 for the field receiver used).
40962349|The Golden-cheeked Warbler (Dendroica chrysoparia), a member of the Parulidae, uses a two-category song system referred to as Type A and Type B. However, songs recorded from adult males in Bexar County, Texas, USA, did not resemble the typical A or B songs reported for this species. We report an analysis of these atypical songs from six adult males. Quantitative features of the measured songs and syllable structure suggest this atypical song is more comparable to a B song than an A song with some modifications. The atypical song has dropped a terminal syllable of the known B song, and selectively modified one of the syllables to include frequency modulations (up and down slurs). Further, the known B song was not heard in the investigated sites. We conclude the atypical song is a variant of the B song.
40962350|We tested the hypothesis that migrating birds use nocturnal conspecific song when selecting stopover habitat using data from the Yellow-breasted Chat (Icteria virens). We broadcast nocturnal song in unsuitable habitat (i.e., a manicured orchard) and alternated broadcast nights with nights where no song was broadcast. We caught significantly more individuals (8 males, 7 females) on mornings following treatments relative to control nights when no songs were broadcast (2.5 vs. 0 birds/morning, respectively). Eleven of 15 (73%) chats were removed from the nets after sunrise (mean = 32 min after sunrise, range = 5-60 min), and birds were captured on overcast, cloudy, and clear mornings. Only one bird was recaptured at the site, and only one male was detected singing at the site, suggesting individuals quickly left the area. Conspecific nocturnal songs for chats appear to be an important cue for selecting stopover habitat.
40962351|We report the first occurrence of the White-breasted Waterhen (Amaurornis phoenicurus) in Oceania based on discovery of a breeding population on Woleai Atoll, Yap, Micronesia. Islanders believe it first arrived on Woleai in the early 1970s, at a time when the species was beginning a period of range expansion that may be ongoing. Yap Outer Islanders report the waterhen is present also on nearby Eauripik, Ifaluk, and Faraulep atolls, where it arrived after it colonized Woleai. We summarize extralimital, nonbreeding dispersal of A. phoenicurus and report a recent first record for Palau.
40962352|The Wilson's Plover (Charadrius wilsonia) is widely distributed along the coast of the Americas. We present the first reproductive record in Baa de Todos os Santos, Brazil, broadening the southernmost limit of its breeding area along the Atlantic Coast to 12 44' S, 38 45' W. We recorded a family with a subadult in 2007, and a family with chicks and a nest in 2008. The female invested more time in incubation than the male in 96 hrs of diurnal nest observations. There were 102 interruptions during incubation due to the approximation of domestic animals (cattle and horses). The nest was abandoned 9 days after egg laying. An experiment with artificial nests suggests that 30% of Wilson's Plover nests may be destroyed by free-ranging domestic animals in this Baa.
40962353|We observed an occupied Harpy Eagle (Harpia harpyja) nest over three separate periods in eastern Venezuela. Both eggs in the clutch hatched on the same day, and two nestlings competed in the nest for 14 days before one succumbed. The female adult collected green branches 45 times over 60 days of observation. Green branch deliveries were positively associated with prey deliveries and our observations best support the 'nest sanitation by covering prey' hypothesis for the adaptive significance of green branch collecting. Prey delivery rate to the nest averaged one delivery every 2.4, 2.1, and 3.7 days in the three observation periods. Three-toed sloths (Bradypus tridactylus) and wedge-capped capuchins (Cebus olivaceus) were the most common prey items brought to the nest.
40962354|The Screaming Cowbird (Molothrus rufoaxillaris) is one of the most specialized brood parasites with only three known hosts: Baywing (Agelaioides badius), the main host throughout most of its range, and two alternative hosts in some areas of its distribution, Chopi Blackbird (Gnorimopsar chopi) and Brown-and-yellow Marshbird (Pseudoleistes virescens). We studied Screaming Cowbird parasitism in northeast Argentina where this parasite uses Baywings and Chopi Blackbirds as hosts. We monitored 69 nests of Baywings, 251 of Chopi Blackbirds, 31 of Solitary Caciques (Cacicus solitarias), and 30 of Cattle Tyrants (Machetornis rixosa). The frequency of Screaming Cowbird parasitism on Baywing nests was 80% and was 46% for Chopi Blackbirds. We recorded one event of Screaming Cowbird parasitism on one nest of Solitary Caciques and three events of Screaming Cowbird parasitism on one nest of Cattle Tyrants. The identities of parasitic eggs in both hosts were confirmed by sequencing the mtDNA control region. We propose these events of parasitism resulted from recognition errors by Screaming Cowbird females that regularly parasitize Baywings and Chopi Blackbirds. The nest of Solitary Caciques had been frequently visited by a pair of Baywings before Screaming Cowbird parasitism occurred, and the nest of Cattle Tyrants was near an active Chopi Blackbird nest that had been previously parasitized by Screaming Cowbirds.
40962355|We used video cameras to monitor 33 Dickcissel (Spiza americana) nests during 2003-2004 in the highly-fragmented, agricultural ecosystem of eastern Nebraska and western Iowa. Nine nests fledged young, 20 were completely depredated, three were partially depredated, and one was abandoned due to ants. Nine snakes, six small mammals, six common raccoons (Procyon lotor), two Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater), and one American mink (Neovison vison) were documented as nest predators. These results suggest a diversity of predators is responsible for depredation of Dickcissel nests with snake prdation being an important cause of nest failure.
40962356|Cavity-nesting birds may frequently compete for a limited supply of nest and roost cavities in trees, but interspecific sharing of these cavities has rarely been reported. The globally vulnerable Helmeted Woodpecker (Dryocopus galeatus), a little-known Atlantic Forest endemic, is believed to be threatened by nest-site competition; however, little is known about its ecology or natural history. I report an observation of a female Helmeted Woodpecker roosting with two White-eyed Parakeets (Aratinga leucophthalma) in their non-excavated (natural) nest cavity at Cruce Caballero Provincial Park, Argentina, and discuss possible implications for ecology and conservation of this rare woodpecker.
40962357|We attempted to collect diet samples using throat ligatures from nestlings of three songbird species in a riparian woodland in southeastern Arizona from May to August 2009. We had success with Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia), observed adult Yellowbreasted Chats (Icteria virens) reclaim food from nestlings, and discontinued the use of throat ligatures when we observed an adult Abert's Towhee (Pipilo aberti) remove two, 3-4-day-old ligatured nestlings from its nest. Previous studies have reported problems (e.g., aggression toward nestlings by adults) with throat ligatures, but we are the first to document removal (and subsequent nestling mortality) in response to this technique. We urge investigators to exercise caution when using throat ligatures on species for which evidence of the safety and efficacy of this method are lacking, especially when nestlings are small in size relative to adults.
23033478|The geographic range of the Scale-backed Antbird (Willisornis poecilinotus) encompasses Amazonia. Seven currently defined subspecies are distinguished from one another by diagnostic plumage characters except for one pair. Six pairs of subspecies are apparently parapatric and lack a known barrier to intergradation in at least a portion of their contact zone; yet confirmed hybrids are known only for one pair in one location. An analysis of >350 recordings, however, found vocal differences among them insufficient to recommend elevating subspecies to the species level with one exception. Populations in southeastern Amazonia should be considered a distinct species, Willisornis vidua (Hellmayr), Xingu Scale-backed Antbird, on the basis of their distinct loudsongs, raspy call series, and contact calls. Within the widespread Willisornis poecilinotus, Common Scale-backed Antbird, the remaining instances of parapatry without extensive intergradation provide a focus for future fieldwork to define interrelationships in contact zones and mechanisms of species recognition that may be sustaining them on independent evolutionary paths.
23033479|Antbirds (Thamnophilidae) are a diverse component of neotropical forest avifaunas, and are particularly vulnerable to population declines and extirpations in fragmented landscapes. We lack estimates of apparent survival and dispersal for the majority of species, despite their value in effectively managing populations of understory birds. We studied a population of Chestnut-backed Antbird (Myrmeciza exsul) from 2004 to 2009 in a large rain forest preserve in northern Costa Rica to generate estimates of apparent annual survival (), and breeding dispersal (i.e., movement from one breeding territory to another) in continuous forest. Estimates of  ( SE) of adults based on weighted model averages were high (males: 0.794  0.037; females: 0.798  0.050) compared to independent juveniles (males: 0.629  0.159; females: 0.629  0.168). Detection (recapture/reobservation) probabilities (p) were higher for males (adults: 0.916  0.034; juveniles: 0.915  0.049) than for females (adults: 0.544  0.104; juveniles: 0.540  0.115). Overall annual turnover (disappearing from the study area + territory switching) was comparable to other antbirds (32%). Territory switching was rare, and generally limited to short movements to adjacent or nearby territories (mean distance moved = 372 m, range = 145840 m, n = 9). Our results suggest Chestnut-backed Antbirds: (1) have relatively high adult annual survival, and (2) have limited breeding dispersal, even in a large, forested study area.
23033480|We inventoried the bird fauna of an isolated enclave of white-sand vegetation, known locally as a campina/campinarana, in the western extreme of the Brazilian State of Acre between 22 and 31 January 2007 (wet season). A total of 114 bird species was registered in 1,425 net-hrs of mist-netting and 8 hrs of recordings of vocalizations. This included six species known to be associated with campinas and campinaranas in western Amazonia. A number of important records were made of species endemic to the southwestern Amazon Basin, but poorly-known in Brazil. Despite the relatively small size of the campina/campinarana enclave, these records indicate the area is extremely important for conservation of local biodiversity, and reinforces the need for further studies of both the avifauna and other groups of animals.
23033481|We examined  <sup>15</sup> N and  <sup>13</sup> C values of feathers from nine species, belonging to three feeding guilds (herbivores, omnivores, and insectivores), of wild passerines at eight sites along an altitudinal gradient (3392,876 m asl) within Taroko National Park, Taiwan. We examined: (1) if altitudinal patterns in feather  <sup>15</sup> N and  <sup>13</sup> C are consistent with previously published values for plants and soils, (2) if feather  <sup>15</sup> N and  <sup>13</sup> C differ among sites, and (3) if there are year-toyear and/or month-to-month fluctuations in feather  <sup>15</sup> N and  <sup>13</sup> C of the same birds. We found no simple relationship between feather isotope values and altitude. Feather  <sup>15</sup> N values decreased significantly with increasing altitude for insectivores, but not for herbivores and omnivores. Feather  <sup>13</sup> C values increased significantly with increasing altitude for herbivores and omnivores, but not for insectivores. Altitudinal trends in feather  <sup>15</sup> N and  <sup>13</sup> C values exhibit even more inconsistent patterns when data were analyzed by species; feather  <sup>15</sup> N and  <sup>13</sup> C values for some species increased significantly with increasing altitude, others decreased significantly with increasing altitude, and still others exhibited no significant relationship between isotopic values and altitude. The R <sup>2</sup> for the relationship between feather  <sup>15</sup> N,  <sup>13</sup> C values and altitude was generally low regardless of whether the analysis was by feeding guilds or species. This indicates much of the variation cannot be explained by altitude. There were either no significant differences between sites, or significant differences between some but not all sites when investigating  <sup>15</sup> N or  <sup>13</sup> C, whether by feeding guilds or by species. Our study suggests that carbon and nitrogen isotopes may be not useful markers to track altitudinal migration of montane passerines.
23033482|Saltcedar (Tamarix spp.) has increasingly dominated riparian floodplains relative to native forests in the southwestern U.S., but little is known about its impacts on avian productivity or population status. We monitored 86 Arizona Bell's Vireo (Vireo bellii arizonae), 147 Abert's Towhee (Melozone aberti), and 154 Yellow-breasted Chat (Icteria virens) nests to assess reproductive parameters in cottonwood-willow (Populus-Salix), saltcedar, and mesquite (Prosopis spp.) stands along the San Pedro River, Arizona during 19992001. We also assessed source-sink status for each species in each vegetation type using field data combined with data from the literature. There were no significant differences in reproductive parameters between vegetation types for Abert's Towhee or Yellow-breasted Chat, although seasonal fecundity was quite low across vegetation types for the latter (0.75  0.14; mean  SE). Bell's Vireo had extremely low seasonal fecundity in saltcedar (0.10  0.09) and significantly fewer fledglings per nest in saltcedar (0.09  0.09) compared with cottonwood (1.07  0.32). Point estimates of  were substantially <1 for all three focal species in all habitats indicating the entire study area may be performing as a sink; 90% CI of  included 1 only for Abert's Towhee across vegetation types and Bell's Vireo in cottonwood vegetation. These results are surprising given the San Pedro is considered to be one of the best remaining occurrences of lowland native riparian vegetation in the southwestern United States.
23033483|Herbaceous buffers are strips of herbaceous vegetation planted between working agricultural land and streams or wetlands. Mowing is a common maintenance practice to control woody plants and noxious weeds in herbaceous buffers. Buffers enrolled in Maryland's Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program (CREP) cannot be mowed during the primary bird nesting season between 15 April and 15 August. Most mowing of buffers in Maryland occurs in late summer or fall, leaving the vegetation short until the following spring. We studied the response of wintering birds to fall mowing of buffers. We mowed one section to 1015 cm in 13 buffers and kept another section unmowed. Ninety-two percent of birds detected in buffers were grassland or scrub-shrub species, and 98% of all birds detected were in unmowed buffers. Total bird abundance, species richness, and total avian conservation value were significantly greater in unmowed buffers, and Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis), Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia), and White-throated Sparrows (Zonotrichia albicollis) were significantly more abundant in unmowed buffers. Wintering bird use of mowed buffers was less than in unmowed buffers. Leaving herbaceous buffers unmowed through winter will likely provide better habitat for wintering birds.
23033484|We studied wintering grassland bird communities in De Soto National Forest in southern Mississippi, USA to assess differences in bird communities and vegetation structure among different stand types. We also examined which vegetation structure and plant species predicted occurrence of Bachman's Sparrow (Peucaea aestivalis), Henslow's Sparrow (Ammodramus henslowii), and Sedge Wren (Cistothorus platensis). Bachman's Sparrows occurred only in uplands (x = 0.5 birds/ha) and stands managed for Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis; x = 0.9 birds/ha), Henslow's Sparrows occurred only in bogs (x = 3.8 birds/ha) and stands managed for Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (x = 2.1 birds/ha), while Sedge Wrens occurred in all stand types (x = 0.10.3 birds/ha). There were no significant differences among stand types in total bird densities for all three species combined. Dense, spatially uniform herbaceous cover and cover of Scleria muhlenbergii, a preferred food item in bogs, best predicted Henslow's Sparrow occurrence (39% s <sup>2</sup> explained). Increased woody understory vegetation and decreased tree density best predicted Sedge Wren occurrence (17% s <sup>2</sup> explained). Management for Henslow's Sparrows should focus on small-scale herbaceous ground-layer restoration in bogs. Bachman's Sparrows will respond more to thinning dense upland stands. Sedge Wrens and Bachman's Sparrows benefit from Red-cockaded Woodpecker management, whereas Henslow's Sparrow use of woodpecker stands is ephemeral.
23033485|We studied sound emission in the non-oscine Cuban Tody (Todus multicolor) to quantify its acoustic repertoire and to document geographic variation in its songs across the Cuban archipelago. Cuban Todies emitted three types of sounds. The characteristic song of the species was recorded from 98% of 116 individuals. The characteristic song of the species and a variant form recorded from two individuals consisted of trains of multi-harmonic short, downward frequency modulated notes emitted at peak frequencies below 4 kHz. A third type of sound in the limited repertoire of the species recorded from two birds is presumably produced with the wings and appears in the spectrograms as a train of short clicks with frequencies also below 4 kHz. Evidence of geographic variation was found in the characteristic song. Birds from Isla de la Juventud and Pinar del Ro emitted more notes per train spaced at longer intervals than birds from the rest of the provinces. The peak frequency of the notes had lower values in birds from Isla de la Juventud. A discriminant function analysis grouped todies from different provinces into two main clusters corresponding to western Cuba and eastern Cuba. This geographic song variation may indicate genetic differences in this sedentary forest bird, and the existence of two "incipient species" of todies in Cuba. Isolation may have been caused by discontinuities in the mainland of Cuba that occurred between the Pleistocene and Holocene or by deforestation occurring in Cuba for the last five centuries.
23033486|The Royal Sunangel (Heliangelus regalis) is endemic to sandstone ridges in southeast Ecuador and northeast Peru. This hummingbird is currently considered endangered, although little has been published on its natural history, distribution, and conservation. We found H. regalis in three habitat types, but abundance was higher in stunted shrubland, at ridgetops. It was observed to feed on seven plant species, mostly following regular feeding routes, between 0 and 2.5 m above ground. We describe six different vocalizations, as well as two flight displays, and observations on social interactions. We also discuss its current conservation status in Ecuador, where we estimate that 2,500 individuals might persist.
23033487|We report nesting behavior of Szechenyi's Monal-Partridge (Tetraophasis szechenyii) in treeline habitats of the Pamuling Mountains, Sichuan Province, China. Szechenyi's Monal-Partridge used both ground and tree nests. Ground nests were scrapes in the soil, positioned at the base of a tree or scrub, and occurred in all habitats except Sichuan kobresia (Kobresia setchwanensis) meadow. Tree nests were cup shaped and placed 1.912.0 m above ground level, distributed proportionally in all habitats except scrub hollyleaf-like oak (Quercus aquifolioides) and Sichuan kobresia meadow habitats. The proportion of nest types between first and re-nesting attempts did not vary significantly. Only 54% of ground nests and 33% of tree nests survived until hatching with predation being the principal cause of ground nest failure. Hatching success was 97%. We recorded six re-nesting attempts, four of which were tree nests, but all were unsuccessful. Preserving a mosaic of treeline habitats that include ground vegetation, and fir/oak woodland habitat will be essential for maintaining suitable nesting habitats for Szechenyi's Monal-Partridge in the Pamuling Mountains.
23033488|The Swallow-tailed Kite (Elanoides forficatus) formerly bred in Arkansas, but no nesting attempts were observed in the state for over a century. We initiated a study in 2001 to investigate the species' reproductive status in east-central Arkansas, USA. We located five nests between 2001 and 2009, all of which failed. Two nests were abandoned (one due to researcher caused disturbance), one failure was likely caused by a Red-shouldered Hawk (Buteo lineatus) or Barred Owl (Strix varia), one was suspected to be caused by a rat snake (Elaphe obsoleta), and one failed from unknown causes. Nests were built in overcup (Quercus lyrata) and Nuttall oaks (Q. texana) with a mean ( SD) diameter at breast height of 83.92  7.20 cm, mean tree height of 31.28  4.78 m, and mean projection of 7.15  5.66 m above surrounding trees. Nests were at a mean height of 25.09  4.85 m and positioned 0.30  2.36 m above the surrounding trees. All nests were within a circular area 4 km in diameter. Our discovery of a nest in 2002 represented the first documented case of nesting Swallow-tailed Kites in Arkansas in >100 years and is a considerable (370 km) distance from the closest known nesting site in Louisiana.
23033489|We recorded and quantified the nocturnal activity and parental care of a brooding Common Potoo (Nyctibius griseus) using an infrared camera in southeastern Brazil. Parents alternated care of the nestling and decreased their presence as the nestling grew. Nestling feeding on passing insects while sitting on the nest, movements on the nest, wing exercising, preening, and defecating were recorded primarily while it was alone. The frequency of begging calls per hour was higher when the nestling was accompanied by one of the parents. Nocturnal recordings of this species on the nest revealed behaviors that were not cited in past studies, including: feedings bouts on passing flies performed by the nestling and adults, nestling defecation, and nestling plumage maintenance. The well-known plus newly quantified behaviors of the Common Potoo reinforce their value to survival during the long nestling period.
23033490|We collected observational data in three consecutive breeding seasons to study interactions between the botfly Philornis seguyi and Red-crested Cardinals (Paroaria coronata) in a temperate zone near the southern limit of Philornis distribution. We analyzed: (1) seasonal trends in prevalence of parasitism, (2) influence of botfly parasitism on nestling growth rate and survival, and (3) the association between nest site vegetation at different scales (i.e., nest tree, vegetation surrounding the nest tree, and landscape) and probability of botfly parasitism. Prevalence of parasitism was 28% and was higher later in the breeding season. Botfly parasitism produced sub-lethal (lower growth rate of nestlings that survive) and lethal (lower nestling survival) effects. The lethal effect was negatively associated with age at the time nestlings were parasitized. Botfly parasitism was not associated with vegetation characteristics at the level of nesting tree or vegetation surrounding the nesting tree, but was associated with landscape features. Parasite prevalence was higher in large continuous woodland patches than in small isolated patches. However, we did not observe increased use of isolated patches of forest by Red-crested Cardinals, suggesting that use of nest sites with high botfly parasite intensity could be the consequence of high host density.
23033491|We document seasonal changes in the ratio of phosphatidylcholine (PC) to phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) in pectoralis muscles of captive and wild White-throated Sparrows (Zonotrichia albicollis). We manipulated day length in captive sparrows to induce 'winter' or 'migratory' condition. The PC/PE ratio in these sparrows was 1.87  0.11 (mean  SE), and did not vary significantly between treatments. However, the PC/PE ratio was higher in wild adult sparrows in winter (1.90  0.19) than those caught in migration (1.20  0.13 in spring; 1.37  0.14 in fall). No effect of migratory state on PC/PE ratio was found among wild juveniles (1.32  0.09 in fall, 1.18  0.14 in winter). Seasonal changes to PC/PE ratios may be a result of migratory exercise, rather than migratory condition per se.
23033492|The long breeding period and high reproductive investment of seabirds make use of resource-rich foraging areas pivotal both during and between breeding seasons. We tracked adult Australasian Gannets (Morus serrator) from their New Zealand breeding colony at Cape Kidnappers to Australia during the non-breeding period to assess wintering behavior and migratory routes for this species. Data from three recovered geolocation sensor (GLS) tags showed that both a male and a female M. serrator, and a hybrid M. capensis  M. serrator migrated across the Tasman Sea to winter in Australian and Tasmanian coastal waters. Tracked birds covered distances of up to 13,000 km on their migration. These movements were consistent with historical records of band recoveries.
23033493|We identified 25 species of birds representing nine avian Orders from remains in digestive tracts of 85 Burmese pythons (Python molurus bivittatus) collected in Everglades National Park, Florida, USA, from 2003 to 2008. Four species of birds identified in this study are of special concern in Florida and a fifth, the Wood Stork (Mycteria americana), is listed as federally endangered. This represents the first detailed analysis of the avian component of the diet of the introduced Burmese python, now established in Everglades National Park, Florida and highlights the potential for considerable negative impact of this invasive species on native bird populations.
23033494|I analyzed the occurrence of intermediates between Western (Aechmophorus occidentalis) and Clark's (A. clarkii) grebes, of mixed pairings, and of species composition in populations of Aechmophorus grebes in California and Oregon, USA. Western Grebes comprised 69% of the aggregated total of grebes identified while intermediates represented 3.5% (4146 individuals) in the populations investigated. I conclude that numbers of intermediates between purebred parental individuals have increased. Higher percentages of mixed pairings were observed at Lake Almanor; an aggregated 7.9% of nesting pairs were not composed of two purebred grebes of the same species. Statistically, mating remained strongly assortative.
23033495|The Brown Wood Rail (Aramides wolfi) is a globally threatened, poorly known species endemic to the Choc rain forests of South America. We provide a first report on the species' nesting biology, home range, and habitat use. Nests (n = 16) were open cups 2 m above ground and were more common in secondary forest than expected by chance. Median clutch size was four eggs, incubation lasted >19 days, the precocial young departed the nest within 24 hrs of hatching, and 66% of nests successfully produced young. At least two adults participated in parental care and pair bonds appear to be maintained year-round. The home range of an adult radio-tracked for 7 months was 13.5 ha in secondary and selectively-logged forest contiguous to primary forest. This easily overlooked species may be more resilient to moderate levels of habitat degradation than previously suspected, but extensive deforestation throughout its range justifies its current status as 'Vulnerable to Extinction'.
23033496|We describe the nest and eggs of the Chestnut-headed Crake (Anurolimnas castaneiceps) based on observations of two nests found in the border of the Lliquino River, Pastaza Province, Ecuador. Nests were found in June and December with birds incubating eggs. Both nests were on fallen logs covered by vines and epiphytes in natural small gaps. They were open cups and built principally with dead leaves. The coloration of the eggs was pinkish white with scattered brown spots, similar to other Amazonian rails and crakes. The nests were similar in structure to those of wood rails (Aramides spp.) suggesting a close relationship between Anurolimnas and Aramides.
23033497|Breeding of the poorly known Snowy-cheeked Laughingthrush (Garrulax sukatschewi) was studied in a conifer-dominated forest at Lianhuashan (southern Gansu), China. Snowy-cheeked Laughingthrushes nested at sites with fewer conifers and denser shrubs compared with the available vegetation. Bowl-shaped nests were 2.4  0.1 m (x  SE, n = 31) above ground in six plant species. Spruce (Picea spp.) was used (74%) more often than expected based on availability at nest sites. The breeding season (early May to mid Jul) was shorter than for other timaliids. Twelve of 20 (60%) nests with known outcomes were successful. The average clutch size was 3.5  0.2 eggs (25, n = 21) with 2.7  0.2 hatchlings (24, n = 15) and 2.2  0.2 fledglings (13, n = 12) per nest. Incubation was by both males and females and lasted 14 days (n = 1); both parents cared for the nestlings for 1618 days (n = 3).
23033498|We collected 17 (13 females, 4 males) Shiny Cowbirds (Molothrus bonariensis) during the passerine nesting season in July 1999 and 2003 in Jasper County, southwestern South Carolina. Five females (38%) were laying eggs, as ascertained from the condition of their reproductive organs. Two females collected on 1 July 1999 and 19 July 2003 had eggs in their oviducts, and would have deposited eggs within 1 day. Shiny Cowbirds have been in North America for at least 24 years, but only males had been collected before this study. Most of those collected had enlarged testes, as did the four collected in the present study, but these data are not proof that breeding actually occurred. The reproductive condition of the females we collected provides material evidence that the species breeds in North America. It is not known which species are being parasitized by Shiny Cowbirds, but several species widespread in the southeastern United States are highly suitable hosts.
23033499|Increasing proportions of Sharpshinned Hawks (Accipiter striatus) migrated later in autumn at the Hawk Ridge Bird Observatory, Duluth, Minnesota during 19742009. Migration averaged about 4 days later over 35 years since 1974, and about 8 days later during late September through October in the last 16 years of the study. Our results augment previous findings demonstrating recent shifts in phenological events for birds. The proximate causes and potential consequences of this later timing of migration should be investigated.
23033500|Seasonal migration is an important component in the life cycle of Northern Saw-whet Owls (Aegolius acadicus). We evaluated the influence of the four lunar events (new moon, first quarter moon, full moon, and last quarter moon) on nocturnal activity of Northern Saw-whet Owls based on captures during fall migration, 20002008. We found differences between the lunar events with decreased capture rates during the full moon and the new moon. These results suggest lunar phase influences migratory movements and behaviors in this species. This may be attributed to predator avoidance during periods of relative brightness or darkness at night.
23033501|Nocturnal migration is a common strategy among North American passerines. Birds of the Fringillidae have typically been labeled as predominately diurnal migrants. We used pressure-zone microphones and automated sound detection software to record flight calls of nocturnally migrating birds from 2 to 16 October 2008 from 2000 to 0600 hrs EST at three locations near Gardiner, Maine. We detected and recorded 190 Pine Siskin (Spinus pinus) flight calls from throughout the night at three separate locations. This is the first published documentation of apparent nocturnal migration in this species. Nocturnal migration may be a facultative migration strategy in the Fringillidae that occurs only in years in which large irruptive movements occur as for Pine Siskins in fall 2008.
23033502|Ambient temperature may influence selection of foraging sites by organisms that use sap as a primary food source. I examined the spatial orientation of sap wells excavated by Yellow-bellied Sapsuckers (Sphyrapicus varius) on pine trees (Pinus spp.; n = 43) in eastern Kansas. Sap wells were oriented toward the southwest ( = 246.04, s = 65.46, P = 0.004), unlike in previous studies. Benefits of southwesterly sap well orientation may include avoidance of high winds while foraging and increased flow of sap on the sides of trees warmed by afternoon light.
23033503|We report observations of the Austral Parakeet (Enicognathus ferrugineus) feeding on larvae in the northern part of its distribution in the austral temperate forests of Argentine Patagonia during the pre-and post-reproductive seasons. Larvae consumed were Aditrochus fagicolus (Chalcidoidea: Pteromalidae) in leaf galls of Nothofagus pumilio (79 observations), larvae from Homoptera, Lepidoptera, and Diptera in seed galls of N. pumilio (12 observations), and larval Nemonychidae (Coleoptera) in male cones of Araucaria araucana (69 observations). Our observations suggest Enicognathus ferrugineus could be more insectivorous than previously thought, perhaps to help meet their demand for high-quality food during the pre- and post-reproductive seasons.
23033504|Foraging associations between birds and other groups of animals have been widely reported in the literature. I report the first observation of a foraging tactic involving a flock of Greater Ani (Crotophaga major), which deliberately followed fish along an artificial ditch in the Pantanal wetlands, feeding on animals flushed by the movement of the vegetation on the ditch banks. Further observations of the feeding behavior and foraging tactics of Greater Anis are necessary to ascertain if this type of behavior is a frequent event or merely sporadic.
23033505|Documentation of interspecific adoption of young is rare in the published literature among birds. We survey six cases of young Common Buzzards (Buteo buteo) adopted in nests of White-tailed Sea Eagle (Haliaeetus albicilla) in central Europe (Czech Republic and Hungary). Common Buzzard nestlings adopted were in good condition and adult White-tailed Sea Eagles fed and cared for them properly. Young Common Buzzards successfully fledged and left the White-tailed Sea Eagle nests. The most probable explanation of this phenomenon is a non-lethal predation of Common Buzzards followed by White-tailed Sea Eagle parental care as a result of parental recognition error. Similar cases of adoption of Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) nestlings in nests of Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) have been documented in North America.
23033506|Avian mortality during fall migration has been studied at many anthropogenic structures, most of which share the common feature of bright lighting. An additional, unstudied source of avian mortality during fall migration is recreational cruise ships that are brightly lit throughout the night. I documented a single mortality event of eight Common Yellowthroats (Geothlypis trichas) on one ship during part of one night in fall 2003, but suggest this is a more wide-spread phenomenon. The advertised number of ship-nights for 50 cruise ships in the Caribbean Sea during fall migration in 2003 was 2,981. This may pose a significant, additional, anthropogenic source of mortality that warrants further investigation, particularly because impacts could be minimized if this source of avian mortality is recognized.
23033507|I report the first sighting of Aplomado Falcon (Falco femoralis) for Puerto Rico and all of the West Indies. I observed a single individual at Laguna Cartagena National Wildlife Refuge (southwestern Puerto Rico) on 15 January 2008; the individual stayed until 25 January 2008. Photographs establishing the bird's identity were obtained during prolonged periods of observation by several observers.
23033508|We report observations of Blue Jay (Cyanocitta cristata) mortality in idle lobster traps stored on Merepoint Neck in the Town of Brunswick, Maine. Three of nine individual Blue Jays found inside the traps were alive but emaciated. Each of the live Blue Jays was seen picking off and swallowing pieces of pectoral muscles from Blue Jay carcasses also inside the traps. We could not find literature describing or warning of the attractive nuisance posed to birds by improperly stored fishing gear, such as lobster traps. Our observations identify a previously undocumented threat to local bird populations, and likely the first documentation of adult-adult cannibalism for the Blue Jay. We suggest some simple solutions to mitigate avian mortality due to improperly stored fishing gear.
23033509|We report five instances of small birds mobbing Common Nighthawks (Chordeiles minor). In each case, the nighthawk was roosting in a tree during daytime and was mobbed by a group of birds in a manner typical of that directed toward an avian predator. We found only four previously published accounts of perched caprimulgiforms being mobbed. Mobbing birds probably mistake caprimulgiforms for owls because of convergence in plumage coloration and pattern between these two groups of crepuscular-nocturnal birds.
23033510|Communal winter roosts of American Crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) often occur in urban areas and may number in the thousands of individuals. We documented the distribution of urban roosts of American Crows in central Ohio and, on 12 January 2010, we observed a roost of 2,500 individuals with 250300 birds roosting on the ground. The ground roosting birds remained stationary for the entire observation period of 45 min indicating this location was not a stopover site. This behavior may increase thermoregulatory benefits during cold nights assuming decreased predation threats in urban environments. We suggest urban ground roosting behavior by crows may be adaptive in colder environments.
23033386|We studied a newly established population of Kirtland's Warbler (Dendroica kirtlandii) in Adams County, Wisconsin, nesting in a red pine (Pinus resinosa) plantation. We found eight males and five females in Adams County in 2008 and 10 males and 10 females in 2009. Five of seven (71%) males color-banded in 2008 returned in 2009, and at least eight successful nests produced an estimated 33 young over the 2 years. Red pine comprised 66.9% of trees on the main site, 20.6% were northern pin oak/black oak (Quercus ellipsoidalis/Q. velutina), and 12.5% were jack pine (Pinus banksiana). Total tree density at the main site was 1,876 trees/ha, lower than generally reported in Michigan. Percent canopy cover and ground cover types were similar to Michigan sites. Lowest live branch height of jack pine was similar to Michigan sites, but lowest live branches of red pine at our site were closer to the forest floor. Significant red pine die-off at our site combined with substantial natural jack pine recruitment created a landscape matrix of openings and thickets that produced suitable Kirtland's Warbler habitat. We suggest young red pine-dominated plantations should be searched when surveying for Kirtland's Warblers as some lower-density red pine plantations could provide important supplemental habitat as the species expands its range.
23033387|Cerulean Warblers (Dendroica cerulea) have experienced one of the highest population declines of any neotropical-Nearctic migratory species in North America. We performed point counts and habitat assessments in areas used and unused by Cerulean Warblers in northern Alabama during the 2005 and 2006 breeding seasons to examine their avian associations and identify microhabitat features that best explained their occurrence. We detected on average 50 Cerulean Warbler males (total) in three disjunct populations during each breeding season. Areas used by Cerulean Warblers were characterized by avian communities with significantly higher species richness, diversity, and abundance compared to areas where they were not detected. Correspondence analysis related Cerulean Warblers to inhabitants of riparian, bottomland deciduous forests (e.g., Kentucky Warbler [Oporornis formosus], Acadian Flycatcher [Empidonax virescens], and Northern Parula [Parula americana]) and two edge specialists (Blue-winged Warbler [Vermivora cyanoptera] and Indigo Bunting [Passerina cyanea]) suggesting Cerulean Warblers in our study areas may be tolerant of some habitat disturbance within an otherwise largely forested landscape. Information theoretic criteria and canonical correspondence analysis indicated Cerulean Warblers preferred bottomland forests containing tall (> 29 m), large diameter, well-spaced (> 27 m <sup>2</sup> /ha) deciduous trees with greater canopy cover ( 90%), closer (< 20 m) canopy gaps, fewer snags ( 25/ha), and a moderately complex canopy structure.
23033388|The natural histories of Volcano (Selasphorus flammula) and Scintillant (S. scintilla) hummingbirds are poorly known. We describe aspects of their breeding behavior with emphasis on courtship displays and sounds that males produced for females. Males of neither species sang undirected song. Males of both species produced a display dive, in which they ascended 25 m in the air and then dove, swooping over the female. Both species produced a pulsed sound that was synchronized with abrupt tail spreads during the bottom of the dive. The second rectrix (R2) of both species was capable of generating the same sound in a wind tunnel, suggesting these sounds were made by the tail. The dive sounds of the Volcano Hummingbird were louder than those of the Scintillant Hummingbird. Male Scintillant Hummingbirds produced a wing trill in flight, and performed a shuttle display to females in which the wing-beat frequency reached 100 Hz. Males held territories in open areas during the breeding season. Not all territories included abundant floral resources, and abundant resources in closed habitat were not defended. The role of resources is unclear in the breeding system of these two species.
23033389|We studied the poorly understood Black Catbird (Melanoptila glabrirostris), a near threatened mimid, at Lighthouse Reef in northeastern Belize. A resident of coastal lowlands and offshore islands, this endemic species of the Yucatan Peninsula has been reported as extirpated from several localities and has declined in numbers at other sites. We found it relatively common on the larger of two islands that comprise Northern Two Cayes from 18 to 25 June 2005. It had not been reported there since first discovered at Lighthouse Reef in 1862 and was considered extirpated until we rediscovered it. The Black Catbird at Northern Two Cayes displayed fierce intraspecific territoriality and both males and females defended against aggressors. However, it exhibited no interspecific territoriality toward its nearest avian associate, the Mangrove Warbler (Dendroica petechia bryanti). It used wing-flashing in territorial defense, mating rituals, and while foraging on the ground. We estimated 10 pairs of Black Catbirds in a 3-ha study area in the buttonwood-coconut (Conocarpus-Cocos) ecosystem but made no attempt to estimate the size of an apparently larger population in the more extensive area of coastal scrub on the remainder of the island. The defended territory of the pair studied most extensively was 100  25 m, centering on a buttonwood (Conocarpus erectus) grove and included numerous coconut (Cocos nucifera) trees.
23033390|Reasons for the decline of the Mariana Crow (Corvus kubaryi) on the Western Pacific island of Rota are currently unknown, but a need to protect nesting habitat has been suggested. We examined 55 actual nest sites and 60 random sites from 1997 to 1999 to investigate habitat characteristics specific to crow nest sites. Both nests and random plots were predominantly in limestone forest habitat. Discriminant function analyses indicate actual nest sites were differentiated from random sites based on a higher percentage of canopy cover and mean DBH of papaya (Carica papaya) and woody vines, as well as a higher stem count of species associated with limestone forests. This resulted in correct classification of a potential site as nesting versus random in 92% of the cases. Actual nests were >300 m from buildings, while random sites averaged ( SE) 226.7  71.6 m from a building. Actual nest sites were about twice as far from a road as random nest sites. Twenty-eight of the 55 active nests fledged young. Nests in native forests were associated with higher reproductive success than nests in more disturbed areas. These findings suggest that damage to habitat from anthropogenic or natural causes may be limiting nesting success.
23033391|Aspects of the breeding biology of the world largest Olrog's Gull (Larus atlanticus) colony, in the estuary of Baha Blanca, Argentina, were assessed for 101, 66, and 47 nests in 2005, 2006, and 2007, respectively. Mean ( SD) clutch size in 2005 was 1.86  0.73 eggs per nest and modal clutch size was two eggs (range = 13). The incubation period was 1.67 days longer for A-eggs than for B-eggs (27.44  1.22 days vs. 25.77  1.36 days, respectively; P < 0.001). Incubation length for C-eggs was 25.75  0.96 days. The largest eggs were 31.5% (length), 21.3% (breadth), and 66.5% (volume) larger than the smallest eggs. Mean egg volume in 2006 and 2007 decreased with hatching order, but the magnitude of this change was more pronounced in 2007 than in 2006. Variation in all egg measurements was larger among than within clutches. Hatching success within three-egg clutches was 76.9% in 2005, 81.7% in 2006, and 91.3% in 2007 (P = 0.20). Total egg loss in 2005 reached 16.7% and complete clutch loss was 43.8% during the incubation period. Parameters quantified in this study provide a comparative benchmark for future research on factors affecting breeding parameters in Olrog's Gull from this and other colonies, and lay the foundation for developing effective conservation strategies for the species.
23033392|I studied the breeding biology, parental care, and nesting success of the Bolivian Swallow-tailed Cotinga (Phibalura flavirostris boliviana) in Aten, northwestern Bolivia, from October 2005 to February 2006. The incubation period ranged from 17 to 19 days and the nestling period was 25 to 30 days. Swallow-tailed Cotingas appeared to be monogamous during the entire nesting stage, from nest construction to fledging of nestlings, based on 10 nests with focal observations. Each parent took care of the nest every hour during the incubation period, but males spent more time at this activity than females. Both parents spent equal time taking care of the young during the nestling period. Nest care decreased as nestlings developed, the provisioning rate of parents increased, and length of foraging trips increased. The probability of daily survival between the nestling (0.9773) and incubation periods (0.9455) was not statistically significant; overall nesting success was low (20%). This work is the first detailed report of the nesting of this species in Bolivia.
23033393|The Shrike-like Tanager (Neothraupis fasciata) is a Cerrado bird considered as near threatened. Its life history is poorly known, especially its reproduction. We monitored reproduction during four breeding seasons (20032006) with 120 nests in a protected area in central Brazil. Nesting began at the end of the dry season and start of the rainy season. The incubation (13.0 days) and nestling (11.7 days) periods were shorter than for most neotropical birds, but similar to some other tanagers. Clutch size (23 eggs) was similar to most tropical birds. However, clutch size increased and nest initiation date advanced 30 days in a year of early precipitation compared to 3 other years with regular or late precipitation. The Shrike-like Tanager had breeding flexibility and ability to adapt to changes in temporal precipitation patterns.
23033394|We examined factors influencing Canada Goose (Branta canadensis interior) annual nest success, including the relative abundance of collared lemmings (Dicrostonyx richardsoni), arctic fox (Alopex lagopus) den occupancy, nest density, and spring phenology using data collected during annual Canada Goose breeding area surveys at Cape Churchill, Manitoba. Nest density and arctic fox den occupancy strongly influenced Canada Goose nest success. High nest density resulted in higher nest success and high den occupancy reduced nest success. Nest success was not influenced by lemming abundance in the current or previous year as predicted by the "bird-lemming" hypothesis. Reducing arctic fox abundance through targeted management increased nest survival of Canada Geese; a result that further emphasizes the importance of arctic fox as nest predators in this system. The spatial distribution of nest predators, at least for dispersed-nesting geese, may be most important for nest survival, regardless of the abundance of small mammals in the local ecosystem. Further understanding of the factors influencing the magnitude and variance in arctic fox abundance in this region, and the spatial scale at which these factors are realized, is necessary to fully explain predator-prey-alternative prey dynamics in this system.
23033395|Host-parasite interactions between Red-rumped Caciques (Cacicus haemorrhous) and Giant Cowbirds (Molothrus oryzivorus) were studied at 52 nests in the Atlantic Forest, Misiones, Argentina. Cowbird eggs (16) occurred in 27 of 38 cacique nests (71%) found during the egg stage. Giant Cowbird eggs were white and unmarked (85%), or marked and spotted over pale buff (15%); the marked eggs somewhat resembled host eggs, but were twice as large. Four host and three parasite eggs were found punctured and broken. Only three cowbird nestlings were observed, and resembled oropendola (Psarocolius spp.) nestlings more than those of Red-rumped Caciques. Botflies (Philornis spp.) infested cowbird and cacique nestlings, but there was no evidence of a cowbird-cacique preening mutualism.
23033396|We recorded parental provisioning rates of Varied Tits (Poecile various) at different altitudes (n = 17, 7, and 11 nest boxes at 300, 900, and 1,400 m, respectively) to examine if males and females cooperate in response to increased provisioning pressure due to nutritional demands of nestlings. Females provisioned nestlings more than males irrespective of altitude. Provisioning rates of males and females tended to increase with elevation, but the increase was greater for males. Provisioning was low early in the nestling period, and gradually increased reaching a peak between 9 and 10 days after hatching. The provisioning rate of females at the peak provisioning period (810 days) did not increase markedly at any altitude. Provisioning by males during the peak period increased and they contributed more during this period than at other times. The provisioning rate of males increased linearly with elevation. The provisioning rate of female Varied Tits also increased with elevation, but the increment ratio was lower than that of males. Changes in provisioning rates with elevation may be due to the need to invest more in parental care under unfavorable environmental conditions. Parents at high altitudes experience more difficulty provisioning, not only because of nestling growth, but also because provisioning is required more often. Thus, increased provisioning by males, which have a lower provisioning frequency relative to females, may be an investment to reduce foraging pressure on females and to ensure survival of nestlings.
23033397|Field surveys conducted between 4 September and 17 November 2008 resulted in the first comprehensive inventory of the avifauna of the outlying highlands of the Gran Pajonal and southern Cerros del Sira in central Peru. We report 462 bird species representing 52 families from above 900 m elevation. We describe the avian communities of humid montane habitats and savanna, and provide accounts for 22 species for which we obtained either new distributional data or information of taxonomic significance. We also discuss avian migration, reproduction, molt, and conservation in the region. Our results highlight the richness and uniqueness of the avifauna of the Cerros del Sira and Gran Pajonal, and reinforce the scientific and conservation importance of the eastern Andes and its outlying ridges.
23033398|Hybridization between Saltmarsh Sparrow (Ammodramus caudacutus) and Nelson's Sparrow (A. nelsoni) has been documented in areas where the two species occur sympatrically, increasing the difficulty of accurate species identification. We developed a DNA barcoding restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) test to discriminate between Nelson's Sparrows and Saltmarsh Sparrows and applied it to 426 putative Saltmarsh Sparrows sampled from Maine to New York, USA. All individuals were identified in the field as Saltmarsh Sparrows based on morphology, but 34 (8%) had Nelson's specific mitochondrial DNA, indicating they were of hybrid origin. This discrepancy in morphological and genetic data highlights the difficulties associated with accurate field identification and may hinder conservation efforts by confounding attempts to identify and monitor "pure" populations. Mitochondrial DNA of Nelson's Sparrow was prevalent at the most southern point of the previously documented overlap zone and was also found in one individual 150 km south of the overlap zone. Our findings offer new insights into the extent of hybridization between the two species and underscore the need for further investigation into the consequences of hybridization on conservation of Saltmarsh Sparrows.
23033399|The White-collared Kite (Leptodon forbesi Swann, 1922), previously known by the holotype and three specimens from northeastern Brazil from the late 1980s, is considered by many as a juvenile variant of the Grey-headed Kite (L. cayanensis Latham, 1790). We present new morphological evidence from museum specimens of both species, including a previously misidentified specimen of L. forbesi, and field study to support the validity of the White-collared Kite as a species, now seen as endemic and severely threatened in northeastern Brazil. This species occurs only in remnants of the Atlantic Forest in the states of Alagoas and Pernambuco. It is distinguished from its congener by its white hind-collar, underwing coverts, and leading edge of the wings. The under surface of the secondaries show reduced black barring. The number of white and black tail bands is variable, and not a good diagnostic character. We also review all taxa described for L. cayanensis and show the described subspecies are not valid.
23033400|We examined behavioral interactions of raptors, Chihuahuan Ravens (Corvus cryptoleucus), and Lesser Prairie-Chickens (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) at leks in the Texas Southern High Plains. Northern Harriers (Circus cyaneus) and Swainson's Hawks (Buteo swainsoni) were the most common raptors observed at leks. Only 15 of 61 (25%) raptor encounters at leks (0.09/hr) resulted in a capture attempt (0.02/hr). Mean ( SD) time for Lesser Prairie-Chickens to return to lekking behavior following a raptor encounter was 4.2  5.5 min suggesting the disturbance had little influence on lekking behaviors. Lesser Prairie-Chickens engaged in different escape behaviors depending on raptor species and, generally, did not respond to ravens suggesting they are able to assess different predation risks. The raptors in our study area posed little predation risk to lekking prairie-chickens. Behavioral disturbance at leks appears minimal due to the lack of successful predation events, low raptor encounter rates, and short time to return to lekking behavior.
23033401|We studied songs of Black-throated Gray Warblers (Dendroica nigrescens) in a fragmented landscape in southwestern Oregon and northern California where each male sings a single Type I song consisting of two phrases. Fourteen variants of Type I songs were distributed in a complex geographic pattern across 19,400 km <sup>2</sup> of the region. Variants differed in number of notes/syllables in the A-phrase (range 25), and the B-phrase differed in both the number and structure of syllables. Several variants occurred in well-defined areas and differed from neighboring songs; others overlapped adjacent variants or graded from one form to another across a narrow zone. Distinct variants could be identified, but the diversity of Type I songs and the pattern of distribution throughout the region does not describe a clear system of dialects. Geographic extent of the variants differed considerably; some occurred as small scattered populations occupying <250 km <sup>2</sup> while the largest exceeded 3,000 km <sup>2</sup> . Variants in the most restricted area and having the most fragmented distribution had the least consistent structure among individuals both within local populations and across the range of the variant. Ridges >1,0001,200 m in elevation served as effective barriers and separated sets of similar song variants. Fire also likely had a role in generation of variants as reflected by multiple variants occurring in areas lacking obvious geographic barriers.
23033402|Search behavior of arboreal insectivorous migrants was studied at three stopover sites along the northern coast of the Gulf of Mexico during spring migrations, 19931995. We examined if search behavior was affected by phylogeny, or by environmental factors. A sequence of search movements (hop, flutter, or flight) in a foraging bout was recorded for each migrant encountered. Search rate, frequency, and distance of movements were calculated for each species. Search rate was positively correlated with proportion of hop, but negatively correlated to flight distance. Hop distance was positively correlated to tarsus length, as was flight distance to wing length for the 31 species of migrants. Cluster analysis indicated closely related species generally have similar foraging modes, which range from "sit-and-wait" of flycatchers to "widely foraging" of warblers. Migrants tended to use more hops in dense vegetation, but more flights in areas with sparse vegetation. Migrants also used more flights when foraging in mixed-species flocks and during periods of high migrant density. Logistic models indicated warblers were more influenced by environmental factors than vireos, possibly because warblers are near-perch searchers and more affected by these factors.
23033403|Populations of Loggerhead Shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus) across North America have been declining, and factors responsible for this decline remain unclear. Few studies have focused on the availability and use of wintering habitat. Our objectives were to ascertain the size and characteristics of Loggerhead Shrike territories, and examine the hunting behavior of shrikes during the non-breeding season. We observed 1,372 hunting attempts by 19 shrikes; arthropods (65.3%) and other invertebrates (23.3%) were the most common prey. Characteristics of habitat at used and randomly selected, apparently unused isolated and continuous perch sites differed (P = 0.023 and P = 0.021, respectively). Used perches had less grass cover, more bare ground, and denser, shorter vegetation. We found no difference between characteristics of occupied and unoccupied areas (P = 0.34). Non-breeding territories in our study were larger (mean = 85 ha) than those reported for shrikes during the breeding season. The availability of suitable winter habitat does not appear to be limiting Loggerhead Shrike populations in Kentucky. However, most Loggerhead Shrikes winter south of Kentucky where densities are higher, and it is possible that availability of suitable habitat might be a limiting factor in some areas.
23033404|We investigated sex and age ratios of wintering Bicknell's Thrush (Catharus bicknelli) across a geographic gradient of sites on Hispaniola. The island-wide proportion male was 0.64 (n = 127), which is comparable to the known male bias in breeding areas. The proportion male varied geographically on Hispaniola, suggesting some level of habitat segregation. Male-biased ratios occurred at two sites whereas sex ratios at five sites did not differ from parity. The island-wide proportion adult was 0.72 and age ratios were significantly adult-biased at two sites. We assessed vegetative structure at all sites and the proportion of male thrushes increased significantly with density of understory vegetation. Age ratios were not associated with vegetation characteristics. Neither sex nor age ratios varied significantly with elevation. Our data suggest the possibility of sexual habitat segregation with males preferentially occupying cloud forest sites characterized by a thick understory of vines and saplings occurring at densities >10,000 stems/ha.
23033405|Use of ultraviolet (UV) light, which causes porphyrin pigments in feathers of some birds to fluoresce, provides a simple, effective means of distinguishing multiple generations of flight feathers in owls. This permits easier and more accurate classification of age of adult owls. This lighting technique has been used extensively with Barn Owls (Tyto alba) and Northern Saw-whet Owls (Aegolius acadicus) and works well on a variety of owl species at night in the field, and should have wide applicability among owl researchers. The relative ages of the feathers can be easily distinguished by the intensity of fluorescence they exhibit when the ventral surfaces of primaries and secondaries are exposed to UV (black) light. This allows rapid and accurate assessment of molt and, in turn, the assignment of an age classification for the owl.
23033406|We document a female Burrowing Owl (Athene cunicularia) that nested in Arizona and dispersed 1,860 km to Saskatchewan, where she successfully raised seven young during the same breeding season. The dispersal path between these two locations has not been documented previously. This is the longest distance ever recorded for breeding dispersal for any raptor within the same breeding season and possibly for any bird species.
23033407|A stand-replacing fire in 404 ha of jack pine (Pinus banksiana) and mixed pine forest in Michigan's Upper Peninsula in 2007 resulted in Black-backed Woodpeckers (Picoides arcticus) nesting at high density in 2008, the second possible nesting season post-fire. Nests were found within a 93-ha study area and a 19-ha stand (a subset of the 93-ha study area) in 199.5 survey hours concentrated in MarchJuly. The 19-ha stand had six nests, a density of 0.31 nests/ha or 0.63 individuals/ ha, while the 93-ha study area had 20 nests yielding 0.21 nests/ha or 0.42 individuals/ha. These nest densities are higher than previously reported in the literature for comparable stands, indicating a large influx of nesting woodpeckers post-fire. High nesting densities in this study may have resulted from: (1) optimal timing of the fire for wood-boring beetle exploitation of burned trees, (2) the discrete nature of burned habitat in the study due to impacts of salvage logging, or (3) our focus on regions of the burn where high nesting densities occurred, as the entire burned area (404 ha) was not included in nest density calculations.
23033408|We investigated factors that affect nest-site selection, egg success, and hatching success of Brown Pelicans (Pelecanus occidentalis) on Gaillard Island, Alabama, USA, a man-made island in Mobile Bay. Vegetation density at differing heights, and temporal and spatial variables were considered in the analysis. Brown Pelicans arriving earliest chose sites that were open on the ground, but with a layer of vegetation between 1 and 2 m above the ground. Egg success was related to arrival date, density of the highest vegetation layer, density of nests in a given area, and percentage of nests on the ground. Brown pelicans that arrived earliest appeared to choose more optimal nest-sites and had greater egg and hatching success.
23033409|Few descriptions exist of the nesting behavior of the Gray Trembler (Cinclocerthia gutturalis), and the only nest description of this species seems incongruent with what is known about nesting behavior of other species of Mimidae. We report the first definitively described nest of the Gray Trembler in St. Lucia, West Indies in JuneJuly 2007. We observed construction of, incubation at, and feeding of nestlings in an open-cup nest, similar in architecture to nests of other mimids, contradicting previous reports that Gray Trembler nests are domed, constructed of dried grass, and on top of palm (Cocos nucifera) trees.
23033410|We videotaped nine ejections of real (n = 5) and artificial (n = 4) Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) eggs by Warbling Vireos (Vireo gilvus). All eggs were ejected within 6 min. There were no significant differences in time used for any ejection behavior by egg type, although artificial eggs were probed longer before ejection. Eight vireos ejected the cowbird egg using visual cues only because none sat on its nest before ejection. One male ejected the cowbird egg after sitting on the nest for a few minutes; consequently, both visual and tactile cues were available for its decision to eject the cowbird egg. Most vireos identified the cowbird egg by sight and, in most cases, rapid ejection of the cowbird egg precluded the possibility of using tactile cues. Grasp-ejection was the only ejection method confirmed for real and artificial eggs. Two male vireos ejected cowbird eggs at two nests, which is the first documentation of successful ejection by male Warbling Vireos, and the third cowbird host for which males are known to eject cowbird eggs. The ability of males to eject cowbird eggs has important implications for the evolution of ejection behavior.
23033411|Conspecific egg destruction is an adaptive behavior that has typically evolved in multi-brooded, polygynous, or colonial avian species, and can be difficult to observe. We describe the first case of egg destruction in the Parulidae, which consists of mostly single-brooded and socially monogamous species. In this case, a female Cerulean Warbler (Dendroica cerulea) destroyed 5-day old eggs at a conspecific's nest. This act was likely committed to secure a breeding opportunity with a high quality male or to decrease local competition for resources. There is also the possibility this behavior may have been pathological and not adaptive.
23033412|We describe the successful predation of a black-bearded saki monkey (Chiropotes satanas chiropotes) by a Harpy Eagle (Harpia harpyja) in the Brazilian Amazon and briefly recap two past Harpy Eagle-primate predation interactions. The physiological limitations that raptor anatomy places on individuals during predation attempts are considered along with escape behaviors used by primates to exploit these limitations to increase their chances of survival. In particular, we focus on primate flight paths and startle vocalizations.
23033413|We observed three Common Ravens (Corvus corax) hunting for live sand crabs (Emerita analoga) during low tide on Netarts Spit, Oregon in mid-August 2010. One raven successfully extracted four crabs in five attempts during a 5-min period. The ravens hunted on a large sandy beach near the upper margin of the swash zone (the area covered by active wave action); the focal bird extracted buried crabs using an initial thrust of its bill into the sand to flip sand aside, and then followed with two or three additional jabs before removing a crab from the sand. Extracted crabs were pinned on their backs beneath a foot, whereupon the raven pecked at the ventral surface of the crab's body but did not consume the crab. The captured crabs were mature females, and the egg masses they carried appeared to be the target of the raven's attentions. Low tides in late summer appear to be particularly favorable conditions for profitable and successful hunting of sand crab by ravens. This is the first description of the method by which ravens hunt live crabs of any species, and is further evidence of the ability of ravens to exploit seemingly novel and hidden food resources.
23033414|We describe the first known instance of Black-billed Magpies (Pica hudsonia) nesting in a fully enclosed, pre-formed cavity. Magpies built an undomed nest of sticks in a nest box designed for Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa) near Olds, Alberta, Canada, in 2008. All nesting material was removed from the box after an apparently successful nesting attempt. Magpies built a new nest in the box and fledged at least four young in 2009. These observations indicate that cavity nesting is a distinct, novel behavioral trait that can arise in this species. We describe several potential costs of cavity nesting in this species, which may explain in part why this trait has not become established in any of the many studied magpie populations around the world.
23033415|Botteri's Sparrow (Peucaea botterii) occurs widely in the shrub-grasslands of southern North America. We report a breeding population of the species in the Sierra de la Encantada of northern Coahuila, Mexico, 80 km from the Big Bend area of Texas and >300 km from the nearest previously known breeding range in southern Coahuila and central Chihuahua. We captured three individuals, which show a mostly gray dorsal coloration, suggestive of the texana subspecies, occurring from southern Texas to northern Veracruz. The exact affinity of the northern Coahuila population still needs to be ascertained. The presence of Botteri's Sparrow in northern Coahuila may have been overlooked previously or may be part of a (temporary) range expansion. More work is needed to map the occurrence of Botteri's Sparrow in northcentral Mexico grasslands.
23033416|Over 250 bird species have been listed as victims of the Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis), a well-known obligate brood parasite. Five of the nine species of Phacellodomus (thornbirds) have been listed as victims, but none has been reported rearing cowbird fledglings. I report observations of a pair of Orange-breasted Thornbirds (Phacellodomus ferrugineigula) rearing two fledgling Shiny Cowbirds in southern Brazil. These data add a new host for the Shiny Cowbird and constitute the first report of a species of the genus Phacellodomus as an effective host of cowbirds.
23033547|Leapfrog patterns are a peculiar and little-understood phenomenon in which similar populations at either end of a geographic continuum are divided by dissimilar intervening populations. Leapfrog patterns may be important in allopatric speciation. Most documented cases of biological leapfrog patterns refer to morphological traits in passerine birds, and only few have been reported from outside the Andean region. More importantly, the biological basis of leapfrog patterns continues to elude biologists. We document a vocal leapfrog patternpossibly the second such case documented in the Maroon-chinned Fruit Dove (Ptilinopus subgularis) complex, adding to the few known examples of leapfrog patterns from outside the Neotropics and in non-passerines. P. subgularis is a Wallacean pigeon whose three taxa occur in a longitudinal continuum from Sulawesi in the west to the Sula Islands in the east. We used discriminant analysis and other statistical methods to demonstrate that terminal members of the complex differ in song from the geographically intermediate taxon but resemble each other more closely. Plumage in P. subgularis does not exhibit the same geographic distribution of variability, a pattern that agrees with the only other study reporting a vocal leapfrog pattern, and supports an earlier hypothesis that leapfrog patterns arise from stochastic phenotypic changes in geographically intermediate taxa. We combine the new insights on the distribution of vocal trait variation in P. subgularis with Pleistocene earth-historic information to revise species in the complex.
23033548|We constructed a phylogenetic hypothesis of the pattern of colonization of Philippine scops owls (Otus and Mimizuku). Two mitochondrial genes, ND2 and cytochrome b, were sequenced for 12 samples representing six Philippine endemic taxa: three endemic species, one of which has three endemic subspecies; and one endemic genus. Topology, branch length information, and sequence divergence were used to present the hypothesis for the pattern, direction, and sequence of island colonization events. Philippine scops owls are in two well-supported clades, consistent with at least two independent colonization routes. One route is represented by the montane clade of Otus sunia, O. longicornis, and O. mirus. The other clade is represented by three subspecies of the lowland O. megalotis. The basal position of Mimizuku gurneyi relative to the megalotis clade suggests early colonization of Mindanao. Branch lengths and sequence divergence data are congruent with the morphological differences among the megalotis races. The three races of megalotis differed in 15 of 16 morphological characters. Based on molecular and morphological evidence, we recognize the following Otus megalotis subspecies as full species: Luzon Lowland Scops Owl (O. megalotis). Mindanao Lowland Scops Owl (O. everetti), and Visayan Lowland Scops Owl (O. nigrorum). We also propose reassigning the Giant Scops Owl (Mimizuku gurneyi) to the genus Otus for phyletic consistency.
23033549|The Swallow-tailed Cotinga (Phibalura flavirostris) has traditionally been considered to consist of two subspecies, P. f. flavirostris of southeastern Brazil's foothill forest and, isolated by 2,500 km, a population of P. f. boliviana in central-western Bolivia. The plumage of the two taxa is distinctly different; boliviana males have a longer tail, and body plumage is significantly less sexually dimorphic. The iris of boliviana is mustard yellow, distinct from the blood red iris of flavirostris. P. f. boliviana has dull to bright orange-yellow feet whereas flavirostris has pink feet. Only one vocalization type is recorded for P. f. flavirostris, whereas at least five calls and a song are known for P. f. boliviana, which vocalizes significantly more often. The Brazilian P. f. flavirostris has strong seasonal movements, whereas P. f. boliviana has no seasonal movements. Given the diagnosable differences between the two taxa, it is highly probable they are separate lineages. P. boliviana qualifies as critically endangered for its declining small population due to continual habitat loss.
23033550|Many authors do not recognize the highland Andean Ibis (Theristicus branickii) as a species distinct from lowland Black-faced Ibis (T. melanopis). We considered this problem using a new system of quantitative criteria for species recognition. Andean Ibis differs from Black-faced Ibis markedly in proportions (shorter bill: mean 118 vs. 140 mm; longer tail: mean 215 vs. 185 mm), structure (no wattle), and color pattern (rufous-chestnut crown, face and nape rather than rufous-chestnut crown only; larger white vs. smaller rusty-buff belly-patch). We propose elevation of Andean Ibis to full species. It is rare in Ecuador and Bolivia, vagrant in Chile and only likely to be moderately abundant in Peru.
23033551|We compared 13 song features among three populations of Yellow-eyed Junco (Junco phaeonotus): J. p. bairdi from Baja California Sur, Mexico; J. p. palliatus from southeast Arizona, USA; and J. p. phaeonotus from Oaxaca, Mexico. Songs of J. p. bairdi differed significantly from those of J. p. palliatus in 11 of 13 features and differed significantly from those of J. p. phaeonotus in six of 13 features. Songs of J. p. palliatus differed significantly from those of J. p. phaeonotus in only four of 13 features. Discriminant function analysis clearly distinguished songs of J. p. bairdi from those of the two other subspecies, which were not clearly distinguishable from one another. Additional investigations using playback experiments and genetic analyses may be warranted to better evaluate the merits of promoting J. p. bairdi to species status.
23033552|We used Global Positioning System (GPS) satellite transmitters to estimate the breeding home ranges of Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura) in Saskatchewan, Canada from 2005 to 2009. Breeding ranges calculated using 95% Minimum Convex Polygons (MCP) ranged from 47 to 953 km <sup>2</sup> and averaged ( SD) 371  340 km <sup>2</sup> . Fixed-kernel home ranges (95%) ranged from 49 to 1,992 km <sup>2</sup> and averaged 648  731 km <sup>2</sup> . These ranges include both the smallest and largest summer ranges reported for the species. Spatial variation in range size may have been due to differences in availability of food and the quality of the home ranges involved, amplified by the species' extremely low-cost soaring flight. Adults used all-night perches in varying locations up to 38 km from their nest house while traveling substantial distances to available carcasses to obtain food for their young. Identifying home range sizes for Turkey Vultures is a first step toward understanding how the species is increasing and expanding its distribution in Saskatchewan and elsewhere in Canada.
23033553|Conspecific brood parasitism (CBP) is a widespread alternative female reproductive tactic in birds. We monitored CBP and nesting biology of Mandarin Ducks (Aix galericulata) using nest boxes for six breeding seasons in Zuojia, northeast China. CBP occurred commonly (46.2% of completed clutches) during the study and frequency was positively associated with nest densities. The frequency of CBP declined as the nesting season progressed. On average, 2.5 females laid eggs in each parasitized nest. There were significant differences in clutch initiation dates and mean laying period between parasitized and un-parasitized nests; no difference was detected for the mean incubation period. Clutch size for un-parasitized nests decreased with advancing initiation date, but not for parasitized nests. The hatching rate for eggs in successful nests was 87.1%, and no significant difference was detected between parasitized and un-parasitized nests. The average number of ducklings that left from successful un-parasitized and parasitized nests was 8.4 and 15.4, respectively. Nest desertion was the main cause for nest failure and sibling trampling was the only cause of duckling loss before departure from nests.
23033554|Egg and clutch size of Whiskered Terns (Chlidonias hybrida) in relation to their location within the colony were investigated at Jeziorsko Reservoir, central Poland. All nests (n = 125) in the colony were individually marked and mapped using a Global Positioning System. Four nest clusters were distinguished within the colony based on the patchy distribution of floating vegetation which delineated potential nesting areas. Early breeding Whiskered Terns nested in more central and denser parts of nest clusters and late breeders nested in more peripheral zones of the clusters (trend analysis: F = 20.47, df = 1, P < 0.001). Pairs which nested closer to the centers of clusters had larger clutch sizes (trend analysis: F = 5.70, df = 1, P = 0.019), but there was no relationship between clutch size and distance to the colony center (F = 0.38, df = 2, P = 0.69). Edge clutches had higher coefficient of variation in egg volume in comparison to more central clutches (trend analysis: F = 5.07, df = 1, P = 0.028). Terns nesting in intermediate densities laid eggs of the highest length and volume (trend analysis: F = 7.17, df = 1, P = 0.009; F = 6.35, df = 1, P = 0.014, respectively). We suggest that establishment of particular nest clusters in the Whiskered Terns colony at Jeziorsko Reservoir followed a central-periphery model.
23033555|We identified microhabitat features affecting nest-site selection and examined nest-site characteristics associated with success for the Grey-backed Thrush (Turdus hortulorum) in the Dagang Forestry Farm, Jilin Province, northeast China. We collected data from 79 nests from April to August 2008. Twenty-nine nests (36.7%) were successful, 47 (59.5%) failed due to predation, and the rest were either destroyed by storms or abandoned. The overall daily survival rate (DSR) was 0.9563  0.0072. Nest attempts beginning late in the breeding season were more likely to be depredated. Averaged DSR of laying and late nestling (days 712 after hatching) periods were higher than those of incubation and brooding (days 16 after hatching). We compared habitat variables between nest and random sites and assessed the effects of nest-location and nest-patch characteristics on DSR. Grey-backed Thrushes selected nest sites with shorter ground cover and a high density of small trees and shrubs. DSR was positively related to distance from the nest to the main stem of the nest tree and negatively correlated with horizontal exposure. Further research should focus on identification of nest predators, implications of nest exposure and begging calls on nesting success, and breeding habitat requirements at different spatial and temporal scales of Grey-backed Thrush in fragmented landscapes of northeast China.
23033556|We monitored nesting attempts of White-throated (Turdus assimilis) and Clay-colored thrushes (T. grayi) over 4 years in southern Costa Rica to compare nest success in recently abandoned coffee (Coffea spp.) plantations, pasture, and along roads. Daily mortality rates of Clay-colored Thrush nests were lower in pasture (0.054  0.014) than abandoned coffee plantations (0.096  0.012). Daily mortality rates of White-throated Thrush nests were not influenced by land-cover type but were lower at highly concealed nests (0.058  0.005) compared to less concealed nests (0.090  0.017), and at nests that were on the ground (0.0580  0.005) versus in vegetation (0.076  0.007). Daily mortality rates for nests of both species were very low at an active coffee plantation where nests were monitored in 1 year (0.006  0.004 and 0.015  0.015, for White-throated and Clay-colored thrushes, respectively). Nests at the active plantation were heavily concealed which, along with results for White-throated Thrushes in abandoned coffee, indicates concealment has a strong influence on tropical thrush nest success. Nest success appears to be heavily dependent on factors that may influence both concealment and or habitat for predators. Nest success also appears to be strongly site-specific, making it difficult to provide general statements about the conservation value of different land-cover types.
23033557|We studied Swainson's Thrush (Catharus ustulatus) at two study areas of different latitudes to examine if parents provisioned their nestlings beyond daylight hours. We viewed 591 hrs of video from 37 nests. All nests were provisioned outside the dawn to dusk period but provisioning also continued through the night at the northern site. Night provisioners made an average ( SE) of 1.55  0.18 fewer provisioning trips/hr during the pre-dawn to late evening periods compared to non-night provisioners. Night provisioners compensated with two additional trips/hr during the post-dusk period and 2.11 (95% CI: 1.612.77) trips/hr during the night period. Night provisioners did not experience improved reproductive success, which supports our conclusion that night provisioning was compensatory rather than 'bonus' energy. Nocturnal provisioning was best explained by increased day length, which corresponded to increased light levels during the night period that enabled parents to navigate and locate food. Swainson's Thrush extend a given provisioning effort over more hours as light levels permit rather than increasing energy delivery to their nestlings, which may provide time and energy for other activities.
23033558|We examined the provisioning behavior of male and female Grasshopper Sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum) during 2002 and 2003 by videotaping nests (n = 15) and subsequently reviewing tapes to quantify provisioning rates and identify prey items. There was no difference in provisioning rates of male and female Grasshopper Sparrows (P = 0.13) with mean rates of 2.16 visits/hr for females and 1.86 visits/hr for males. Provisioning rates for males and females combined varied with nestling age (P = 0.01) with rates lower for 14-day-old nestlings, increasing through day 6 and then declining for 710-day-old nestlings. Provisioning rates varied with brood size (P = 0.026) with rates higher for broods of five than broods of three or four. Most prey items delivered to nestlings were grasshoppers (Orthoptera, 68.1%).
23033559|We used information compiled by the U.S. Geological Survey's Bird Banding Laboratory and geographic information systems (GIS) analysis to identify trends in annual Northern Saw-whet Owl (Aegolius acadicus) movement across eastern North America. Analysis of 81,584 Northern Saw-whet Owl banding events revealed a southbound annual fall migration front with peak banding activity occurring progressively later in the season as latitude decreases. Northbound owls comprised <9% of owls banded and recaptured elsewhere in the same season, and <5% were recaptured northbound >100 km from banding location. There was no relationship between banding latitude and adult-to-juvenile ratio. However, the proportion of adults versus juveniles banded was not uniform among banding stations, suggesting age-differentiated migration patterns may exist. Information from multiyear foreign recaptures revealed that 72% of owls banded and subsequently recaptured at the same latitude in different years were recaptured <100 km from banding location. A similar trend was found in the Appalachian Mountains, the Great Lakes Basin, and the Atlantic seaboard. This indicates that Northern Saw-whet Owls may exhibit high migration route fidelity. These findings expand the Northern Saw-whet Owl information portfolio and illustrate the versatility of aggregate data sets as a tool for answering large-scale questions regarding migration.
23033560|The distribution of landbirds during migration in forested landscapes of eastern North America is poorly known. We describe (1) the distribution of landbirds in northern white cedar (Thuja occidentalis) dominated forests as a function of distance from northern Lake Huron in Michigan during spring and autumn migration, and (2) discuss factors that may affect the distribution of these migrants. Both long- and short-distance migrants in spring and fall were concentrated within 0.4 km of the Lake Huron shoreline. This pattern was particularly pronounced during spring when aquatic-hatched insects such as midges and their predators (e.g., spiders) are most common and occur in largest numbers near the shoreline. Both long- and short-distance migrant abundance was associated with midge abundance, after controlling for date, during spring migration but not during fall migration. Migrants may concentrate near the shoreline because of the barrier effect of Lake Huron and relatively abundant food resources, especially during spring migration. Terrestrial habitats adjacent to bodies of water, where aquatic-dependent invertebrates are relatively abundant may provide important stopover sites for landbird migrants. Our results suggest coastal areas within the Great Lakes region provide critical stopover habitat for landbird migrants and should be a focus of conservation efforts, especially given the increasing development pressure that threatens these areas.
23033561|We conducted mist-net surveys of migrating songbirds during fall migration 20072009 on the 1,300-ha Albany Pine Bush Preserve (APBP), a fire-managed inland pitch pinescrub oak (Pinus rigidaQuercus spp.) barren in east-central New York. We banded 244 migrating passerines from 32 non-resident species in 8,610 net/m/hr documenting use of northeastern pine barrens as stopover sites for passerines with diverse breeding ecologies. We estimated the breeding site origin of six species (a kinglet, four warblers, and a sparrow) using stable hydrogen isotope measurements from flight feathers. There was a broad range of isotope ratios within each species indicating a large catchment area extending several hundred kilometers north and west of the stopover site. Over half the birds originated >750 km from the APBP. We found no evidence for geographical structure of the timing of migration through APBP; slopes of regression lines for capture date versus hydrogen isotope ratio from feathers (D <sub>f</sub> ) were not statistically different from zero. This contrasts with previous isotope research that reports both leapfrog and chain migration patterns by different warbler species at stopover sites in the western United States.
23033562|We investigated long-term trends in mean autumn capture dates of 19 species of migratory passerines including 11 long-distance migrants and eight short-distance migrants. Birds were captured between 1960 and 2007 at a banding station in southern Rhode Island. We detected annual trends in the highest ranked models with mean capture dates of seven species significantly delayed by an average of 3.0 days per decade; 38% of long-distance migrants and 50% of short-distance migrants studied significantly delayed migration. We found no evidence of long-term shifts in autumn migration timing for seven species and mean capture dates of five species exhibited non-linear annual trends. Mean autumn temperature was an important factor in explaining annual trends for eight species. Changes in annual capture rates for some species may have an equal or greater role than year or temperature in explaining long-term trends in autumn migration timing. Our analysis suggests that some migratory bird species are now departing the region later than in the 1960s. Important differences among species and regions are likely to influence species-specific responses to changes in climate patterns.
23033563|We used radiotelemetry to quantify habitat and spatial use patterns of neighboring Louisiana Waterthrush (Parkesia motacilla) along two streams in the Caribbean National Forest in Puerto Rico during 20052007. Home range sizes varied with younger birds having larger home ranges and core areas than older birds. All birds occupied some length of stream but a wide range of off-stream habitats were also used. Off-stream habitats included a range of disturbance from residential areas to small saturated pastures. Neighbors exhibited a wide range of overlap in home ranges (x = 20%) and older birds had more overlap than younger birds. The greatest percent of foraging time was along streams (64.4%) followed by muddy substrate (26.5%), housing developments (7.4%), and roads (1.7%). The greater proportion of time foraging along streams indicates this is the preferred habitat for this species. Use of off-stream habitat indicates a strategy of exploiting food-rich ground substrates, and in particular those with high moisture.
23033564|The narrowing of the North American continent at the Isthmus of Tehuantepec creates an important geographic bottleneck for songbirds on their northward spring migrations. The Sierra de Los Tuxtlas, in the northwestern portion of the Isthmus, provide an ideal location from which to address questions of resource use and fuel acquisition during migration. We operated mist nets during morning and evening to capture passerines during spring migration in 2003 and 2004. Seven of 13 taxa had significant diurnal increases in body condition (an index of size-adjusted mass): Swainson's Thrush (Catharus ustulatus), Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina), Magnolia Warbler (Dendroica magnolia), Kentucky Warbler (Oporornis formosus), Hooded Warbler (Wilsonia citrina), Worm-eating Warbler (Helmitheros vermivorum), and Ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapilla). All of these species, except Ovenbird, also had a significant increase in fat score. Indigo Buntings (Passerina cyanea) had a significant increase in fat score but not in condition index. A comparison with autumn migration at this site showed overall similarities in percentage of species gaining mass and in the amount gained, but there were seasonal differences within species. There was no relationship between increase in body condition and a mainland versus trans-gulf migratory strategy.
23033565|Molt strategies and plumage development by age and gender are poorly understood for resident tropical landbirds. We used data from six banding stations on Saipan, Northern Mariana Islands, and examination of 267 museum specimens to describe patterns of molt and to establish criteria for assessing age and gender of nine native resident landbird species on the island. Feather replacement sequences in the majority of Saipan's resident landbirds were typical of related species. Preformative molts occurred in at least eight of the nine species; these and definitive prebasic molts were incomplete to complete, and prealternate molt appeared to be absent for all species. We developed criteria for classifying gender of sexually dimorphic species using plumage cues, presence of brood patch or cloacal protuberance, and biometrics. We confirmed whether or not both brood patch and cloacal protuberance were reliable indicators of gender during breeding in monomorphic species. Distinct periods or seasons of molt are not well defined and can vary between years. Age classification of first-cycle birds based on molt limits, feather shape and condition, and extent of skull pneumatization is possible for most landbird species sampled on Saipan.
23033566|We documented the behavior of 13 parrot species at a geophagy site along the Tambopata River in southeastern Peru. These species use the lick in one or more multi-species aggregations composed predominantly of (1) large parrots and small macaws (81% of lick use), (2) large macaws (5%), or (3) parakeets and small parrots (5%). Monospecific flocks accounted for only 8% of lick use and lone individuals <1% of lick use. The multi-species aggregations sorted by body size and were generally composed of species with similar coloration suggesting that group composition was driven by a mix of competition and predation. Three species regularly used the lick in monospecific groups and these had the largest group sizes away from the lick, suggesting a causal relationship between intraspecific sociality and lick use in monospecific groups. All groups were wary when approaching the lick, probably due to the risk from landslides and predators. We suggest that clay lick use strategies are molded by predation risk and competition acting on a suite of species with varying body size, coloration, and gregariousness.
23033567|We describe the vocal repertoire of the Yellow-faced Parrot (Alipiopsitta xanthops) from recorded vocalizations and also flock sizes in Braslia (Brazil) during 2006. Vocal communication signals are both long-range and short-range sounds. We describe seven call types: flight call (long-range), long-range alarm call, congregation call (long-range), two agonistic calls (long-range/short-range), sentinel call (short-range), and a short-range alarm call. The flight call is equivalent to the functional song and contains the species-specific recognition code. Flight calls may also be uttered when perched and, when in quick series, function as long-range alarm calls. Long-range alarm calls become a high intensity congregation signal when several individuals overlap and, despite degradation and attenuation, may contain the species-specific code over distances of 800 m. The average (SD) feeding flock size was 7.7  8.2 individuals (n = 116) while the roosting flock size was 79.1  10.5 individuals (n = 7). Short-range calls maintain communication while minimizing detection. High intensity vocalizations allow long-range communication, improving feeding efficiency through use of large areas and stimulating late afternoon roost congregations. Low intensity vocalizations maintain communications without providing the position of the parrot.
23033568|We studied seasonal profiles of circulating testosterone concentrations among male and female adult Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) breeding in nest-box colonies near Ames, Iowa, USA. Mean plasma testosterone in males was elevated during nest establishment (0.63  0.86 ng/ml) and incubation stages (0.28  0.26 ng/ml), and was significantly lower after hatching (0.03  0.05 ng/ml) when males began provisioning nestlings. Male swallows do not incubate and high testosterone during the incubation stage may facilitate pursuit of extra-pair matings. Female testosterone concentrations were an order of magnitude lower than those of males (nest establishment, mean = 0.06  0.09 ng/ml) and did not change significantly over the breeding season. These testosterone profiles support the hypothesis that elevated testosterone in males is associated with defense behaviors and obtaining additional mating opportunities during the first part of the breeding season, but is incompatible with parental care once the eggs have hatched.
23033569|Nesting activity of the White-collared Swift (Streptoprocne zonaris) was monitored from October 2001 to March 2002 to describe the breeding chronology of this species. Data were obtained from the colony 'La Cueva de los Pajaritos', near Malln, Crdoba, Argentina. These are the first descriptions of the nesting chronology of this species in Argentina. The breeding season lasted 81 days from egg laying in early November to fledging in middle to late January. Clutch size ranged from one to two eggs which were incubated for an average of 22 days. Nestlings remained in nests for an average of 44 days and fledglings remained at the site for 5 additional days. These observations provide new information on nesting sites used by S. zonaris in Argentina, and provide the first documentation of the length of the breeding phases for the species in South America. The 'apparently shortened' length of incubation and nestling periods may be a geographical effect, due to this being the most southeastern known breeding colony for S. zonaris.
23033570|The Fulvous-breasted Flatbill (Rhynchocyclus fulvipectus) has an Andean distribution from Colombia and Venezuela to northeastern Bolivia between 750 and 2,300 m elevation. We describe the nesting behavior, nest, eggs, and nestlings of this species in the buffer zone of Manu National Park at Cock of the Rock Field Station, Cusco, Peru, from August through December 2009. We monitored seven nests using data loggers to describe incubation patterns and conducted direct observations of provisioning behavior. The two-egg clutch size and pear-shaped nest structure were consistent with previous reports. Incubation lasted 24 days (n = 1) and nestlings were in the nest for at least 29 days. We only observed one parent incubating (presumably the female) with average nest attentiveness of 64%, which decreased as the incubation period progressed. The adult made 10 to 15 foraging trips per day (n = 21) during incubation, when it spent on average (SD) 32.9  2.8 min during incubation bouts and 23.1  6.3 min during foraging bouts (n = 3 nests). Nestlings were able to regulate their body temperature after the feathers were fully developed; however, their body temperature (37 C) was lower compared to adults. We confirmed Rhynchocyclus nests exclusively along creeks or rivers and also revealed long incubation and nestling periods, which may be more common than expected in tropical mountain areas. There was a decrease in nest attentiveness through time, contradicting previous findings on neotropical passerine species.
23033571|Temporal aspects of egg deposition are important factors governing avian reproductive success. I report hourly egg-laying patterns of the Pearly-eyed Thrasher (Margarops fuscatus) in the Luquillo Experimental Forest in northeastern Puerto Rico during 19792000. Initiatory eggs were laid by early morning (median = 0642 hrs, AST) and almost half of the eggs were laid by 0723 hrs. Many penultimate and eggs completing a clutch, however, were laid later in the morning and some not until mid afternoon (1429 hrs), thus extending egg deposition to 8 hrs. Delayed laying of the last eggs in a clutch may be an adaptive strategy triggering brood reduction to ensure survival of older and more robust siblings during periods of physiological stress and food shortages.
23033572|We provide the first known documentation of a male Least Bell's Vireo (Vireo bellii pusillus) breeding with a female White-eyed Vireo (V. griseus) and the first report of a White-eyed Vireo breeding in California at the San Luis Rey River, Oceanside, San Diego County. We discovered the pair building a nest on 12 May 2010. The female laid four eggs, and the pair successfully raised and fledged four nestlings. We collected DNA samples from each nestling and the female during the nestling stage and banded them with a numbered federal leg band for future identification. We obtained detailed nest measurements after fledging and monitored the territory for further nesting attempts. No additional nesting attempts were detected.
23033574|Nest reuse behavior in birds is rare because nests are ephemeral structures. We describe the first record of multi-season nest reuse by the Scintillant Hummingbird (Selasphorus scintilla). The nest was a multi-cup of four nests with newer nests placed on top of older nests. The nest was under the eave of a roof, which may have reduced nest disintegration and facilitated nest reuse.
23033575|We report re-encounter rates and dispersal distances of Red-eyed Vireos (Vireo olivaceus) re-encountered 1 year after banding in a large forest ( 4,600 ha) in southern Ontario, Canada. We re-encountered 12 (11%) of 109 banded individuals. Dispersal distances ranged from 40 to 9,870 m and were longest for hatch year (HY) bandings (median = 4,970 m, n = 3). Distances were similar between other age classes (SY: median = 225 m, n = 4; ASY: median = 220 m, n = 5), and males (median = 220 m, n = 9) and females (median = 250 m, n = 3). Our re-encounters of banded Red-eyed Vireos provide information on dispersal, detection rates, and methodology that could potentially improve future marking efforts and apparent survivorship estimates.
23033576|I observed 514 nest-box departures of 12 different individual Eastern Screech-Owls (Megascops asio), both males and females, at dusk in Falmouth, Massachusetts over a period of 12 years and compared their departure times to local sunset. Mean ( SD) delay after sunset was 21  12 min, identical for males and females, but longer than those reported for more southerly locations. Females departed significantly earlier on overcast evenings. Females advanced their departure times during the nestling period by as much as 2.6 min/day, on average, over a 25-day period. The observed differences in departure delays among populations in Texas, the Washington, D.C. area, and Massachusetts may be an expression of differences in behavior among subspecies of M. asio.
23033577|Few documented reports exist that describe carrion-feeding by owls. We produce a conclusive record of carrion-feeding by Barred Owls (Strix varia) from photographs taken with a passive-infrared wildlife camera trap baited with the whole or partial carcasses of road-killed mammals (eastern gray squirrel [Sciurus carolinensis] and white-tailed deer [Odocoileus virginianus]). We recorded multiple pictures in two documented occurrences (one in Oct 2010 and the other in Dec 2010) over multiple days of a Barred Owl visiting both fresh and mostly-decayed carcasses. Attempts to lure owls to camera traps through use of tainted chicken and turkey meat were unsuccessful, and no additional owl pictures were obtained from unbaited cameras throughout 2010.
41480534|A review of all available specimens and the discovery of many unpublished life history notes allows a much more complete picture of the morphology and behavior of the extinct Wake Island Rail (Gallirallus wakensis). The breeding season of the species may have been environmentally influenced but, under favorable conditions, there may have been two broods per year. Small groups of birds engaged in cooperative nesting and prolonged parental care and feeding of the young, probably in part to defend the eggs and young from hermit crabs (Coenobita) and rats (Rattus). The smallest species of its genus, the Wake Island Rail was able to co-exist with Pacific rats (Rattus exulans). Extinction of the rail occurred between 1942 and 1945 as a result of direct prdation by thousands of starving Japanese troops and habitat destruction resulting from military alterations and aerial bombardment.
41480535|We studied the Black-fronted Piping Guan (Pipile jacutinga), a medium-sized cracid (1.5 kg), endemic of Atlantic rainforest and considered endangered. We present density estimates of Black-fronted Piping Guans derived from line-transect surveys (total effort = 2,246 km) across 11 protected areas (6 continuous mainland areas, 3 non-connected mainland areas, and 2 inshore islands) in So Paulo State, southeastern Brazil. Both islands and the continuous mainland forests of Paranapiacaba massif had the highest density estimates of the species. The largest continuous mainland Atlantic Forest (Serra do Mar massif) had the lowest density estimates and the species was absent in some regions of this mountain range. All non-connected mainland forests also had low density estimates or absence of the species. Our data indicate the Black-fronted Piping Guan is not extremely sensitive to habitat disturbance and the major threat to its conservation is most likely from illegal hunting. The absence or low density estimates of the species in three survey sites is of special concern, because it is known guans are important in seed dispersal, which may have long-term consequences for forest regeneration.
41480536|We examined the effects of habitat change on Cerulean Warbler (Dendroica cerlea) populations at stops along Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) routes in the central Appalachians. We used aerial photographs to compare early (1967/1971), middle (1982/1985), and late (2000/2003) periods and compared 1992 and 2001 National Land Cover Data (NLCD). Mean Cerulean Warbler detections per stop decreased at 68 BBS stops between the early (0.05) and middle (0.01) time periods and their distribution became more restricted (15 vs. 3% of stops), but the amount of deciduous/mixed forest increased. Mean detections at 240 stops decreased from the middle (0.09) to the late (0.06) time periods, but the deciduous/mixed forest land cover and fragmentation metrics did not change. The amounts of deciduous/mixed forest, core forest area, and edge density in the NLCD analysis decreased from 1992 to 2001, whereas the amount of non-forest land cover increased. The number of Cerulean Warbler detections did not change (1992 = 0.08, 2001 = 0.10; P = 0.11). The lack of concordance between Cerulean Warbler detections and broad habitat features suggests that smaller, microhabitat features may be most important in affecting Cerulean Warbler breeding habitat suitability.
41480537|We evaluated seabird attendance and incidental mortality at coastal trawl vessels targeting Argentine red shrimp (Pleoticus muelleri) in the Isla Escondida fishing area, Argentina, during 2006-2007 and 2007-2008. Eight seabird species attended vessels, and the most frequent and abundant seabird (percent occurrence, mean number per haul) in the two seasons was the Kelp Gull (Larus dominicanus) (100%, 112.3 and 100%, 263.4, respectively), followed by the Blackbrowed Albatross (Thalassarche melanophris) (85%, 17.6, and 90%, 32.4, respectively). Eleven Magellanic Penguins {Spheniscus magellanicus) and one Imperial Shag {Leucocarbo atriceps) were killed in nets with a mean capture rate of 0.003 and 0.0003 birds per haul, respectively. The estimated total number of birds killed was 53 penguins and five shags considering the total number of hauls made by the fishery in the two seasons. No contacts between seabirds and warp cables were recorded. Coastal shrimp vessels generally operated between 15 and 20 km offshore, at a mean distance from the main Kelp Gull colony (Punta Tombo) of 43.9 km. At least 100 fish and invertebrate species were discarded, mostly Argentine hake {Merluccius hubbsi). Total amount discarded per season by this coastal fishery in the two seasons was estimated at 3,284 and 6,590 tonnes, respectively. The coastal shrimp fishery in the Isla Escondida area appears to have a small impact on seabirds in terms of incidental mortality but provides significant amounts of supplementary food during the breeding season of the Kelp Gull.
41480538|Rapid classification of a study subject's gender is critical for many ecological, behavioral, and conservation projects. We evaluated sexual-size dimorphism of adult Westland Petrels {Procellaria westlandica), a large nocturnal colony-nesting seabird, using linear discriminant function analysis and compared our results to birds classified using standard DNA gender identification techniques. The results revealed a strong pattern of sexual dimorphism (Wilks' Lambda = 0.43, F , = 5.6,  < 0.001) in the standard discriminant function analysis despite an unbalanced sex ratio in our sample of adults captured at the breeding colony. Minimum bill depth and head length, of the seven morphometric characters we measured, successfully assigned the correct gender to 95% of all individuals sampled (n = 37). We provide a canonical classification function of morphological traits that may be used in the field to rapidly differentiate adult females and males of this rare petrel species.
41480539|The Hyacinth Visorbearer (Augastes scutatus) is a poorly known hummingbird endemic to the Cadeia do Espinhao in southeastern Brazil and is classified as near threatened with global extinction. We verified size dimorphism of males and females, describe the plumage patterns of juveniles, and detail the reproductive period of this species in Serra do Cipo National Park within the municipality of Morro do Pilar in the State of Minas Grais, Brazil during August 2007 to July 2009. Adult males were significantly larger than adult females in all measurements assessed. Variables that best differentiate males and females are body mass, total body length, occipital width, bill length, and wing chord. We demonstrated that it may be possible to assign gender of the majority of young of this species, based primarily on the color of the side of the neck and the tract of feathers that circles the visor. There is some indication of a greater concentration of reproductive effort during the dry season, when more juveniles and active nests were recorded. However, we captured fledged young in January, February, and March supporting a breeding period throughout the year for the Hyacinth Visorbearer. This suggests rainfall in the region is the most influential factor in timing of breeding of this species.
41480540|We studied the population relationships of Kriiper's Nuthatch (Sitta krueperi) by capturing 82 individuals using mist nets in six different areas in Turkey during the breeding season, from March to June 2005-2008. Forty-one different morphometric characters were measured. Morphometric characters measured (x  SD) were: body mass = 13.11  0.88 g, wing length = 74.79  2.35 mm, bill length = 17.65  0.76 mm, and tarsus length = 19.10  0.93 mm, respectively. A stepwise discriminant analysis of four populations retained seven statistically significant measurements: body mass, wing length, length of  8, alula, bill height, back nail, and left nail. These analyses allowed discrimination among populations. The population in the Aladaglar Mountains differed from others even though it overlapped with the population in the Ltfi Byk Yildinm Research Forest, and marginally with the population at Kartalkaya Mountain. Cross validation for the other three populations confirmed large overlap in morphometric characteristics although the population at the Ltfi Byk Yildinm Research Forest seemed to be intermediate between populations at Aladalar Mountains and in the Kazdaglan Mountain-Kartalkaya Mountain complex.
41480541|Hyrcanian forests in the northern Alborz Mountains contain many resident and migrant passerines, but the ecological relationships of the species are obscure. We identified the ecological factors (forest structure, type, and topography) that could explain the distribution of the Eurasian Nuthatch (Sitta europaea) and its' habitat suitability in this region. Significant habitat parameters for presence-absence of Eurasian Nuthatch were height, diameter, stand, and type of trees. Our model successfully predicted the presence probability of nuthatches and that suitable habitats strongly depend on abundance of old trees, especially Oriental beach (Fagus orientalis) and European hornbeam (Carpinus betulus). These data suggest forest structure is the key factor in bird habitat use and suitability, and reveal the necessity of adaptive logging activities in Hyrcanian forests.
41480542|We studied the breeding ecology of the Emei Shan Liocichla (Liocichla omeiensis) in two nature reserves (Laojunshan and Wawushan) in Sichuan, China from March to August 2009 and April to August 2010. The breeding density (mean  SE) was between 1.20  0.46 and 1.55  0.56 males/km , and the breeding season was from late April to mid-August and from mid-May to late August in Laojunshan Nature Reserve in 2009 and 2010, respectively. This species used the edges of or gaps within natural broadleaf forest between elevations of 1,450 and 2,150 m for nesting.Vegetation around nests was mainly bamboo (Chimonobambusa szechuanensis), small shrubs, and lianes with few large trees. Nests were cup-shaped with a mean height of 137.5  4.6 cm above the ground. Nests were mainly in C.szechuanensis. Females laid one egg per day in the morning and the mean ( SE) clutch size was 2.9  0.2 eggs.Incubation started after the last egg was laid. Both males and females were observed participating in incubation, provisioning, and brooding the nestlings. Hatching success, fledging success, and nest success were 58.6, 70.8, and 27.5%, respectively. Nest predation and human disturbances were the two main factors affecting breeding success of Emei Shan Liocichlas.
41480543|We studied Marsh Grassbirds (Locustella pryeri sinensis) and reedbed management from 2006 to 2009 in the Yalu River Estuary Wetlands National Nature Reserve, China. Common reed (Phragmites australis) management was monitored and habitat data for 11 variables from 53 nests were collected over a 4-year period. Calamagrostis epigejos was replaced by aquatic vegetation, none of the nests existed in 2008, and 10 of 11 habitat variables differed between before deep irrigation (> 30 cm depth) (2006 and 2007) and after (2009) due to deep water. Mean  SD clutch size was 4.5  0.83, the daily survival rate was 92.3%, and overall nest success was 12.5%. Cover of total grasses accounted for 17.7% of the changes in nest height. Reed cutting and irrigation influenced the local breeding population of Marsh Grassbirds. Sound management practices could benefit Marsh Grassbirds and other grassland passerines.
41480544|We used mist netting in the Chamela-Cuixmala Biosphere Reserve to assess the population phenology of the Flammulated Flycatcher {Deltarhynchus flammulatus), a poorly-known dry forest endemic of the Mexican Pacific Slope. We captured 135 birds (first records only) during 23,515 net hrs over a period of several years which suggests this flycatcher is common at the reserve. Monthly averages of captures (including monthly recaptures) differed between seasons with a peak (71%) during May to August (end of dry season to middle of wet season) and fewer (29%) captures during the rest of the year. Flammulated Flycatchers in breeding condition (n = 38) were captured in June and July. Hatching year birds (n = 8) were captured from 10 July through 11 December. We found an active nest in a cavity on 29 June 2010. We observed pieces of snake skin lining the nest, which may indicate a closer relationship with Myiarchus. Additional knowledge on the ecology and breeding biology of the Flammulated Flycatcher is urgently needed for development of effective conservation plans.
41480545|Black Phoebes (Sayomis nigricans) persistently pump their tails vertically while perched but the functional causes are unknown. I address four hypotheses about the function of this behavior in this species: (1) tail pumping aids in balance, (2) tail pumping enhances foraging, (3) tail pumping is a signal to territorial intruders, and (4) tail pumping is a signal to potential predators. The balance (mean  SE; unstable substrates: 0.23  0.024 pumps/sec, stable substrates: 0.22  0.019 pumps/sec), foraging (non-foraging individuals: 0.28  0.036 pumps/sec, foraging individuals: 0.20  0.026 pumps/sec) and intruder (pre-playback trial: 0.20  0.025 pumps/sec, House Finch [Carpodacus mexicanus] control trial: 0.26  0.029 pumps/sec, Black Phoebe experimental trial: 0.17  0.036 pumps/sec) hypotheses did not significantly explain tail pumping behavior. Tail pumping rates increased during predator sound playback (pre-playback trial: 0.23  0.009 pumps/sec, House Finch trial: 0.26  0.016 pumps/sec, Cooper's Hawk [Accipiter cooperii] trial: 0.61  0.013 pumps/sec, post-playback trial: 0.35  0.013 pumps/sec) and were accompanied by a high amount of both approaches (3.8  0.8) and calls (6.7  1.63). These results indicate that S. nigricans may be using tail pumping behavior as a pursuit-deterrent signal to advertise awareness to potential predators.
41480546|Hatching asynchrony in altricial songbirds can influence the morphology and behavior of nestling birds.We compared the position of nestling Eastern Bluebirds (Sialia sialis) in the hatching hierarchy to their (1) position in the egg-laying order, (2) rate of nestling begging, (3) circulating corticosterone, (4) size, and (5) plumage coloration. Most nestlings hatched within 36 hrs of each other, and nestlings hatched in the order in which eggs were laid. Early-hatched nestlings were heavier than late-hatched nestlings for the duration of the growth period and begged less intensely than their late-hatched siblings. There was little evidence of severe effects of hatch order. Hatch order did not influence nestling corticosterone levels nor did we find effects of hatch order on ornamental plumage coloration. Our data suggest no longterm effect of hatching asynchrony on the development of sexually selected plumage coloration.
41480547|We tracked the development of innate immunity in nestling Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) and compared it to that of adults using blood drawn from nestlings during days 6, 12, and 18 of the ~ 20-day nestling period and from adults. Innate immunity was characterized using an in vitro assay of the ability of whole blood to kill Escherichia coli. The ability of whole blood to kill E. coli increased as nestlings matured. Neither this component of innate immunity nor right wing chord length on day 18 were as developed as in adults indicating that development of the innate immune system and growth both continued after fledging. Narrow sense heritability analyses suggest that females with strong immune responses produced nestlings with strong immune responses. These data suggest nestling Tree Swallows allocated sufficient energy to support rapid growth to enable fledging by day 18, but that further development of innate immunity occurred post-fledging.
41480548|We investigated associations between Northern Mockingbirds (Mimus polyglottes) and the nest parasite Philornis porten (Dptera: Muscidae), and how they vary with urbanization in northcentral Florida. Our goal was to ascertain if the ' parasite-release' hypothesis could contribute to high reproductive success of Northern Mockingbirds in urban areas. We collected 26 nests in 2007 and 73 in 2008 that had produced fledglings along an urbanization gradient, and measured the number of nests parasitized and the number of P. porten in the nests. Habitats differed in prevalence of Philornis parasitism, but not directly in relation to urbanization. Parking lots and wildlife preserves had low levels of parasitism, whereas residential neighborhoods and pastures had significantly higher parasitism prevalence. Parasite prevalence was also significantly and positively affected by nest height and percentage of ground covered by buildings, trees, and open areas in the study site. Our findings do not offer strong support for the ' parasite-release' hypothesis in relation to urbanization, but suggest that vulnerability to parasites is habitat-specific.
41480549|Avian bamboo specialists are an ecologically distinctive group of birds in the Neotropics with some seedeater species having nomadic movements following bamboo (Guadua, Chusquea or Rhipidocladum) mast seeding. We reviewed the range and seasonal distribution of Blackish-blue Seedeaters (Amaurospiza moesta) using published and unpublished records, museum specimens, sound libraries, and intensive field work. We report the first occurrence of Blackish-blue Seedeaters in the Brazilian State of Mato Grosso, a male collected in Fazenda Baa de Pedra, Cceres (16 27' 29" S, 58 09' 59" W). We also recorded this species in two localities in the Cerrado region (a tropical savannah) of Minas Grais: the Santo Antonio River, Presidente Olegario (18 07' 48" S, 46 11' 57" W), and the Abaet River, So Gonalo do Abaet (18 05' S, 45 22' W). These records represent a remarkable range extension, demonstrating this species is distributed across the Cerrado. We found no evidence of regular large scale or local movements of this species, which seems to be resident, at least in Argentina, which had the largest data set.
41480550|Post-breeding ecology of shrubland passerines prior to onset of migration is unknown relative to dynamics of breeding areas. We radiomarked and monitored 38 Sage Sparrows (Amphispiza belli ssp. nevadensis) at one site in Oregon and two in Nevada from September to mid-November 2007 to track local movements, estimate seasonal range sizes, and characterize weather patterns triggering onset of migration. Median area used by Sage Sparrows monitored between 3 and 18 days during or prior to migration was 14 ha; maximum daily movement was 15 km. Radio-marked Sage Sparrows at each location departed individually, rather than en masse, corresponding with passage of cold front weather systems. Conventional telemetry techniques limited our ability to monitor Sage Sparrows beyond pre-migratory periods and precluded detecting and tracking actual movements during migration.
41480551|We report the first detailed account of the breeding biology of the Pectoral Sparrow (Arremon taciturnus). We found 15 dome nests, each containing two eggs in a spherical interior chamber. Eggs were variable in color, ranging from immaculate glossy white to white heavily spotted with brown. Incubation patterns were obtained for six nests for time spans that ranged from 1 to 15 days for a total of 28 days across nests. Incubation in all nests was solely by the female, spending an average of 57% (range = 20-65%) of daylight incubating, leaving the nest an average of 7.4 times per day (range = 4-7) with an average trip length of 46.4 min (range = 6-263 min.). Nest temperature averaged 29.2  2.64 C when the female was incubating and decreased to 26.6  2.43 C during incubation recess. Eggs in only two nests hatched and were monitored for 2 and 9 days. The male provided the young with 75% of the food. Nestlings gained an average of 2.53 g per day. Incubation, provisioning behavior, and egg coloration were similar to other species of Arremon; however, nest shape, location, and materials differ among species.
41480552|We report breeding success of Wilson's Plovers (Charadrius wilsonia) on St. Martin in the Lesser Antilles during 2004. We located 35 nests among six wetlands and apparent nest success was 37.1%. Nest initiation on St. Martin was earlier than in the United States and breeding success was higher earlier in the season than later in the season. There were two distinct peaks in nest initiation; the second peak coincided with peak fledging of chicks from the first nest initiation. Nests on St. Martin were associated with bare ground and were much closer together than in previous studies reported elsewhere. Ten nests were predated by feral dogs (Canis lupus familiaris) and three nests were crushed by vehicles.
41480553|We describe the nest and egg of the Black-headed Berryeater (Carpornis melanocephala), an Atlantic Forest endemic considered vulnerable to extinction. The nest was in a montane evergreen primary forest area in a tree fork 4.2 m above the ground. It was cup shaped and constructed mainly of leaves and stems, resembling a pile of aerial leaf litter. It held just one egg that was incubated solely by the female. The male was near the nest, and inspected it once while being observed.
41480554|We studied nest defense behavior of Yellow-headed Blackbirds {Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus) and Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia) in response to two species of common nest destroyers. We presented freeze-dried models of Marsh Wrens (Cistothorus palustris) at Yellow-headed Blackbird nests and House Wrens {Troglodytes aedon) at Yellow Warbler nests during the incubation stage. We presented a Clay-colored Sparrow (Spizella paluda) as a control for both species. Male Yellow-headed Blackbirds responded more intensively to the Marsh Wren model than the control, and female blackbirds responded intensively to both models but were more aggressive toward the Marsh Wren. Most Yellow Warblers did not respond to the House Wren model with their typical predator responses (e. g., chip alarm calls). Some female warblers were aggressive toward the wren model, whereas others sat in their nest. Sitting in the nest as a defense to deter nest destruction by House Wrens needs further investigation. Differences in response levels between blackbirds and warblers may be related to differences in levels of nest destruction experienced by the two species or differences in nest defense behaviors used by the two species.
41480555|We describe a weather-durable cavity design used successfully by cavity-nesting species native to the eastern USA and, although accessible, avoided by European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris). The artificial nest cavity was constructed using 9.5-cm inside diameter polyvinyl chloride tubes cut to 27.5-cm lengths. The tubes were mounted horizontally with 5.1-cm entry holes drilled through one of the capped ends. Eastern Bluebirds (Sialia sialis), House Wrens {Troglodytes aedon), and Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) nested in 49 of 100, newly mounted tubes on utility poles in north-central Ohio, USA from April through June 2009. These species nested in 85% of the tubes during the same period in 2010 and fledged young from 94.1% of nests. We added 10 nest tubes (27.5-cm long X 17-cm inside diam) at sites similar to the smaller tubes in 2010. Two of the larger tubes were used by nesting starlings and six by native species. Cavity vertical depth has been shown to be an important feature in starling nest site selection, but our data from the larger tubes indicate that other factors are likely important. The smaller design could offer nesting opportunities for a range of native cavity-nesting species while limiting use by starlings.
41480556|We used micro-computed tomography to examine if medullary bone was present in Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina) and Veery (Catharus fuscescens), two species of Passeriformes. We scanned bones from males and females collected during spring and fall migration, and the breeding season. Medullary bone was found in the humrus, radius-ulna, and tibiotarsus-fibula of a breeding female Wood Thrush and a breeding female Veery, both of which were ovulatory at necropsy. Two other breeding female Wood Thrush, both post-ovulatory at necropsy, did not have medullary bone. We did not observe medullary bone in females collected during spring or fall migration, nor in any males. Our findings support the presence of medullary bone in breeding female passerines, but future studies with larger, targeted sample sizes are needed to examine the phenology of medullary bone formation and rsorption, and to explore the extent of medullary bone's role in eggshell formation in passerines.
41480557|We tested individual distinctiveness, a prerequisite for individual recognition, in the songs of the suboscine Eastern Wood-Pewee (Contopus virens). Male Eastern Wood-Pewees produce two main song types: 'pee-ah-wee' and 'wee-ooo' songs. All song variables for both song types, including temporal and frequency variables, showed greater between than within individual variation. Thus, both song types contained the potential to code information on individual identity and quality. Pee-ah-wee songs were more variable than wee-ooo songs, and pee-ah-wee frequency variable measures were the most variable. We correctly assigned 97.5% of pee-ah-wee songs and 95.0% of weeooo songs to the bird of origin-demonstrating individual distinctiveness in both main song types.
41480558|We analyzed the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene of three vagrant Cave Swallow (Petrochelidon fulva) specimens from Illinois, New York, and New Jersey and compared them to published sequences from across the breeding range of the species. All three specimens were assigned to the southwestern United States/Mexico subspecies (P. f. pallida group) on the basis of plumage coloration. Molecular results reveal that all three birds possess unique and novel mitochondrial haplotypes that are closely related to haplotypes from known P. f. pallida individuals. None of the three haplotypes from the vagrant individuals is within the monophyletic clade of haplotypes that corresponds to the Caribbean subspecies (P. f. fulva).
41480559|I observed an Eastern Screech-Owl (Megascops asio) wading to catch fish in a small lake in the Everglades, Florida, USA. This fishing technique has not been recorded previously in this species or in other small owls.
41932793|Winter ranges have been identified for most neotropical migrant bird species, those that spend the winter months in Central and South America and summer months in North America. Published accounts and specimen collections of the Northern Black Swift (Cypseloides niger borealis) during spring and fall migration are extremely limited and winter records are nonexistent. We placed light-level geolocators on four Black Swifts in August 2009, and retrieved three a year later. Data from the geolocators revealed initiation of fall migration (10 to 19 Sep 2009), arrival dates at wintering areas (28 Sep to 12 Oct 2009), departure dates from wintering areas (9 to 20 May 2010), and return dates to breeding sites (23 May to 18 Jun 2010) for Northern Black Swifts breeding in interior North America (Colorado, USA). Northern Black Swifts traveled 6,901 km from the Box Canyon breeding site and 7,025 km from Fulton Resurgence Cave to the center of the wintering area. The swifts traveled at an average speed of 341 km/day during the 2009 fall migration and an average speed of 393 km/day during the 2010 spring migration. This is the first evidence that western Brazil is the wintering area for a subset of the Northern Black Swift, extending the known winter distribution of this species to South America.
41932794|The duration of migration of the endangered Kirtland's Warbler (Setophaga kirtlandii) has not been previously documented. We estimated the average duration of spring migration for five male Kirtland's Warblers by observing uniquely color-banded individuals at or near both the beginning and end of spring migration in Eleuthera, The Bahamas, and Michigan, respectively. We estimated the average duration of spring migration for these five individuals to have been no more than 15.8 days (range 13-23 days) and the average distance traveled to have been 144.5 km/day (96.1-169.1 km/day).
41932795|We describe a new area of endemism for Amazonian birds which we designate as the Ja Area of Endemism. This area of endemism in central-western Amazonia north of the Rio Solimes was identified through congruent distributions of six avian taxa: Psophia crepitons ochroptera Pelzeln 1857, Nonnula amaurocephala Chapman 1921, Pteroglossus azara azara Vieilot 1819, Picumnus lafresnayi pusillus Pinto 1936, Synallaxis rutilans confinis Zimmer 1935, and Myrmoborus myotherinus ardesiacus Todd 1927. The southern and eastern limits of this area of endemism are the middle courses of the Solimes and Negro rivers, respectively. The northern limits apparently coincide with sandy soil vegetation along the middle Rio Negro. The western boundary remains undefined, but could involve the Japur or I rivers north of the upper Solimes. Taxonomic studies and expansion of ornithological collections are needed to more precisely delimit the Ja Area of Endemism. It is possible the avian taxa restricted to the Ja Area of Endemism are derived through parapatric or peripatric speciation events from taxa whose ranges were centered in the Imeri and Napo areas of endemism. Alternatively, tectonic events that affect the lower course of the Rio Negro could influence bird distribution in this region if they serve as vicariance mechanisms.
41932796|We studied breeding season communities of grassland birds on short-grass and mixed-grass prairie sites during the second and third breeding seasons following two large wildfires in March 2006 in the Texas panhandle, USA. There was an apparent temporary shift in avian community composition following the fires due to species-specific shifts associated with life-history traits and vegetation preferences. Species that prefer sparse vegetation and bare ground on short-grass sites, such as Horned Lark (Eremophila alpestris), benefited from wildfires, while others, such as Western Meadowlark (Sturnella neglecta), that prefer more dense vegetation, were negatively impacted. Mixed-grass sites had species-specific shifts in 2007, two breeding seasons after the fires; grassland bird communities on burned plots were similar by 2008 to those on unburned plots. Avian communities appeared to return to pre-burn levels within 3 years following wildfires. Many of the responses in our study of wildfire were similar to those reported following prescribed fires elsewhere. Prescribed fires appear to have similar effects on the avian community despite differences in intensity and environmental conditions during wildfires.
41932797|We investigated the influence of arthropod abundance and vegetation structure on shifts in avian use of canopy gap, gap edge, and surrounding forest understory in a bottomland hardwood forest in the Upper Coastal Plain of South Carolina. We compared captures of foliage-gleaning birds among locations during four periods (spring migration, breeding, post-breeding, and fall migration). Foliage arthropod densities were greatest in the forest understory in all four seasons, but understory vegetation density was greatest in gaps. Foliage-gleaning bird abundance was positively associated with foliage-dwelling arthropods during the breeding (F = 18.5, P < 0.001) and post-breeding periods (F = 9.4, P = 0.004), and negatively associated with foliage-dwelling arthropods during fall migration (F = 5.4, P = 0.03). Relationships between birds and arthropods were inconsistent, but the arthropod prey base seemed to be least important during migratory periods. Conversely, bird captures were positively correlated with understory vegetation density during all four periods (P < 0.001). Our study suggests high bird abundance associated with canopy gaps during the non-breeding period resulted less from high arthropod food resource availability than from complex understory and midstory vegetation structure.
41932798|We describe the frequency of occurrence and seasonal variations of shorebirds (Charadriidae and Scolopacidae) along a 120-km transect of beach between Balnerio Pinhal and Mostardas north of Lagoa do Peixe National Park, Rio Grande do Sul State over a 2-year period (Oct 2007 to Sep 2009). A total of 96,889 shorebirds was recorded. The greatest abundance occurred between October and April and the lowest occurred between May and September. The most abundant of the 17 species recorded were Sanderlings (Calidris alba), White-rumped Sandpipers (C. fuscicollis), and Red Knots (C. canutus). The least abundant were Semipalmated Sandpipers (C. pusilla), Rufous-chested Plovers (Charadrius modestus), and Hudsonian Godwits (Limosa haemastica). Fourteen species were migrants from the Northern Hemisphere, one was a migrant from the Southern Hemisphere, and two were residents. Nine species were recorded regularly, two were recorded sporadically, and six were recorded occasionally. Six Nearctic species were recorded in June and July most likely indicating the presence of non-breeding immatures. The beaches of Rio Grande do Sul are important migration stopover and wintering sites for many shorebirds in southern Brazil and should be a focus of conservation efforts, especially given the increasing development pressure that threatens these areas.
41932799|Environmental parameters in different breeding habitats of Red-backed Shrikes (Lanius collurio) in central Italy were examined at altitudes ranging from 0 to 1,200 m. The most suitable habitats for breeding were: (1) cultivated areas with hedgerows, and (2) high altitude grasslands. Similar population densities were recorded in both habitats (0.27 pairs/10 ha in farmland vs. 0.30 pairs/10 ha in meadows) and as were the number of fledged young per breeding pair (3.38 in farmland vs. 3.75 in meadows). The structural characteristics of 'open space' and 'edge density' differed in the two breeding habitats. Use of species of trees and bushes for nesting depended on habitat type, but nests were in the more abundant thorny shrubs (blackthorn [Prunus spinosa] in farmland and juniper [Juniperus communis] in meadows). Red-backed Shrikes in farmland appear to prefer to nest in the most heterogeneous territories, those with the presence of uncultivated areas and shrub patches. Plasticity of habitat selection by the species was evident.
41932800|The near-threatened Serra Finch (Embernagra longicauda) is restricted to the main mountain ranges in eastern Brazil inhabiting campos rupestres (rocky fields). We mapped 17 mated pairs in a 138-ha area within Serra do Cip National Park; a density of 0.25 adults/ha. Estimated average territory size varied from 2.52  0.77 ha (95% kernel) to 3.35  0.90 ha (100% minimum convex polygon). The distance between territory centers of neighboring pairs was 162.38  28.93 m. The overlap between neighboring territories was 15.3  5.9% (95% kernel) and 2.0  2.3% (polygon method). Pairs remained together throughout the year in the same territories and defended these against intruding neighbors. Analyses of habitat selection indicated preference for woodland and scrubland habitats associated with humid valleys, while grasslands were avoided. The Serra Finch used the available habitats more than expected from random at different spatial scales. Our data identified habitats that should be priority for conservation of the Serra Finch.
41932801|Drifting reefs of Sargassum (a brown alga) are used by a variety of pelagic seabirds in the western Atlantic Ocean. We examined gut contents from 964 individuals of 39 seabird species collected 5 to 60 km off the coast of North Carolina for evidence of Sargassum use. Sargassum pieces or Sargassum-associated prey were found in nine of 10 Procellariiformes species and less frequently among Charadriiformes (12 of 25 species). No Sargassum-associated prey was found in Pelecaniformes examined, but observational data indicated that Atlantic tropicbirds (Phaethon lepturus and P. aethereus) and Masked Boobies (Sula dactylatra) commonly foraged over Sargassum. Four species were considered Sargassum specialists, having frequencies of occurrence >25% and high volumes of Sargassum-associated prey: Audubon's Shearwater (Puffinus Iherminieri), Royal Tern (Thalasseus maximus), Bridled Tern (Onychoprion anaethetus), and Red-necked Phalarope (Phalaropus lobatus). Seven species fed in Sargassum to a lesser extent, and nine species had ingested Sargassum pieces, but contained no Sargassum-associated prey. It is likely that other seabird species forage regularly over Sargassum, as our conclusions are based on relatively small sample sizes taken during random sampling in the open ocean. Our conservative analysis and extensive observational data indicate the Sargassum community is critical for feeding for some western North Atlantic seabirds. Degradation of Sargassum habitats by oil development, harvest, and/or ocean acidification would undoubtedly have negative effects on fitness of these birds.
41932802|We examined two critical predictions of the hypothesis that male Common Loons (Gavia immer) communicate greater aggressive motivation by increasing the number of repeat syllables within their territorial yodels. We observed (from >3,500 hrs of field observations of 58 males) the probability that territorial interactions escalated from territorial flyovers by intruders to stereotyped 'social gatherings' to escalated fights between residents and intruders was positively correlated to the number of repeat syllables given by individually-banded males. Males yodeling during these escalated contests often assumed the upright 'vulture' posture rather than the usual 'crouch' posture, reflecting an escalated aggressive motivational state. Territorial pairs responded sooner and with more threat and alarm vocalizations to playback yodels that contained more repeat phrases. This reflected a greater willingness to attack by residents to perceived intrusions by males of higher aggressive motivational state. Our study demonstrates the ability of loons to communicate greater aggressive motivation by lengthening acoustic territorial threat signals, which not only may be important for conveying imminent attack, but may also reflect important tactics for individuals of poorer fighting ability to deter territorial evictions. Our results also raise questions regarding what receiver-dependent and receiver-independent selective factors are responsible for maintaining signal honesty in this non-oscine bird.
41932803|We present the first record of territorial site-fidelity across multiple years by Purple-throated Caribs (Eulampis jugularis) on three different islands in the eastern Caribbean: St. Kitts, Dominica, and St. Vincent. Marked male Purple-throated Caribs were monitored throughout the flowering season of their main nectar resources, Heliconia caribaea (St. Kitts and Dominica) and H. bihai (St. Vincent), both native perennial herbs. Individual males were observed defending the same Heliconia patches for 3 years (St. Vincent), 4 years (St. Kitts), and 5 years (Dominica), and remained near these patches even when they were not in flower. The territorial behavior and resource dependence of Purple-throated Caribs on native heliconias likely have a key role in the coevolution of this specialized plant-pollinator interaction.
41932804|We monitored six flocks and five active nests of the Plush-crested Jay (Cyanocorax chrysops) at three sites in the Atlantic Forest in southern Brazil. The sites had different vegetation compositions and spanned different levels of anthropogenic disturbance. Home range size in fall/winter was 20-30 ha and the breeding territory size in spring/summer was 5-10 ha in size. Territories were smaller across sites with higher anthropogenic food supplementation. Flock sizes were 5-11 individuals during spring/summer and 8-15 individuals during fall/winter. The Plush-crested Jay is a cooperative breeder, nests were 4-7 m above ground level, the incubation period was 18-20 days, brood size (x  SD) was 3.4  0.80 eggs per nest, and nestlings fledged 23  1.26 days after hatching. This species occupies all forest strata but tends to use the understory and middle levels most (G = 178.2; P < 0.01). Invertebrates were the most frequently consumed item in all areas, but percent consumption varied among sites (G = 105.06; P < 0.01). We observed 110 food caching events throughout the year, primarily seeds of Araucaria angustifolia, maize, and coconuts. Caches were on the ground (n = 40), in epiphytes (n = 47), and on branches (n = 23). Levels of anthropogenic food supplementation resulted in variation in territory and home-range size, nestling survival rates, strata occupation, and diet composition of the Plush-crested Jay.
41932805|Little is known about mate selection and lek dynamics of Lesser Prairie-Chickens (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus). We collected data on male territory size and location on leks, behavior, and morphological characteristics and assessed the importance of these variables on male Lesser Prairie-Chicken mating success during spring 2008 and 2009 in the Texas Southern High Plains. We used discrete choice models and found that males that were less idle were chosen more often for mating. Our results also suggest that males with smaller territories obtained more copulations. Morphological characteristics were weaker predictors of male mating success. Peak female attendance at leks occurred during the 1-week interval starting 13 April during both years of study. Male prairie-chickens appear to make exploratory movements to, and from, leks early in the lekking season; 13 of 19 males banded early (23 Feb-13 Mar) in the lekking season departed the lek of capture and were not reobserved (11 yearlings, 2 adults). Thirty-three percent (range = 26-51%) of males on a lek mated (yearlings = 44%, adults = 20%) and males that were more active experienced greater mating success.
41932806|I examined the lek structure and behavior of male Plovercrests (Stephanoxis lalandi) at a lek in southern Brazil. The lek included seven territorial males; the distance between neighboring lek territories was 14.8  6.3 m. Territory size was 11.4  4.4 m. Territory size and distance between territories were among the lowest reported for Trochilinae hummingbirds. Lek attendance by territory owners fluctuated throughout the day. Activity slowly diminished after an initial period of activity after arrival at sunrise, but increased again between 0900 and 1500 hrs. All males left their territories by 1830 hrs. Males sang at a similar rate (74.8  14.5 songs/min) throughout the lekking season, but not throughout the day. There was no relationship between lek attendance and singing rate, two parameters that potentially affect mating success in lekking birds. Considerable interspecific variation occurs among lekking trochilines, indicating that much remains to be investigated about lek behavior and structure in hummingbirds.
41932807|We monitored Common Nighthawk (Chordeiles minor) nests in a managed grassland in the New Jersey Pine Barrens in 2009 and 2010, and assessed habitat selection by comparing vegetation characteristics at nests with random locations. We found relatively high nest survival with an estimated 79% chance of survival through incubation (daily survival rate = 0.987, n = 16 nests); predation was the most common cause of failure (n = 2). Movements of young (up to 45 m from the original nest site) were frequent, which introduced uncertainty that prevented us from estimating survival through fledging. Nest sites had significantly more open ground cover (e.g., sand, lichen) than random sites, as well as less shrub and grass cover, shallower litter, and lower mean vegetation height.
41932808|We describe reproductive traits of the Yellowish Pipit (Anthus lutescens) in the State of So Paulo, Brazil. We found 32 active nests during three breeding seasons (2008-2010). Domed nests were built exclusively on the ground where the grass was sufficiently tall to conceal them. Clutch initiation across years occurred from July to October and average  SD clutch size was 3.05  0.4 eggs or young. Yellowish Pipits were predominantly single-brooded. Eggs were pale white with brown spots and blotches that could be more concentrated at the larger end or homogeneously distributed over the entire surface. Eggs were 18.2  0.8 mm in length, 13.7  0.3 mm in width, and weighed 1.7  0.12 g. Incubation and nestling periods lasted 13.03  0.2 and 14.5  1.0 days, respectively. Mean time incubating/hr was 38  7.1 min, and incubation recesses averaged 9.4  4 min. Young were provisioned on average 13.3  7.9 times/hr, by both males and females. Estimated overall nesting success using a null model of constant nest survival rates was 87% (95% CI, 56-97%). Model selection analyses indicated survival was negatively correlated to nest age and time within the breeding season. Comparisons of Yellowish Pipit life history traits with northern temperate congeners provided support for the premises that clutch sizes are smaller and young development is slower in the tropics. The hypothesis that annual fecundity can be similar across latitudes due to a negative correlation between clutch size and number of renesting attempts was not supported. Our data contradicted the commonly claimed, but poorly tested hypothesis, that smaller clutch sizes in the tropics can be explained by a longer breeding season that permit more opportunities to renest within the same breeding season.
41932809|We monitored 256 Peregrine Falcon (Falco perigrinus) nest-sites, accumulating 852 site-years in Colorado, Wyoming, and Montana during 2005-2009. The sites included 42 selected by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for its monitoring program in 2006 and 2009. Annual nest occupancy rates ranged from 75 to 100% and varied as much as 10% among years in each state, and 25% among states. Nest success was 77% overall (n = 687), but differed as much as 25% among states in 2009. Reproduction rate was 1.8 young/pair for 687 nesting attempts where outcome was known, and annual state averages ranged from 1.2 to 2.2 young/pair. We discovered or were alerted to 77 pairs at new locations, suggesting that future searches will be successful. Overall, 353 nesting locations in the three states combined had been recorded at the end of the 2009. Wide variations among years in occupancy, nest success, and reproduction underscore the necessity of long-term monitoring of Peregrine Falcons on a regional, rather than a state, perspective.
41932810|We describe the breeding biology and reproductive success of a Creamy-bellied Thrush (Turdus amaurochalinus) population from a southern temperate zone in western Argentina. We found 236 Creamy-bellied Thrush nests of which most were predated (67%). The breeding season was from late October to late December and clutch size was three eggs. Egg survival, hatching success, and fledgling survival of non-depredated nests were quite high (0.67  0.03, 0.74  0.03, and 0.87  0.04, respectively). The number of eggs in the nest did not affect egg survival or hatching success, but number of nestlings in the nest affected fledgling success. Daily nest mortality was higher during the early and late nestling period than during laying, and early and late incubation periods. Highest nest mortality coincided with periods when activity of parents at the nest was highest. The clutch size was similar to data reported for thrushes from the tropics and south temperate areas, and lower than reported for thrushes from north temperate areas. This latitudinal pattern is similar to the general pattern described for passerines in the tropics and southern temperate areas.
41932811|We compared the red, green, and blue color values from digital photographs of the rictal flanges of nestling Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater), a generalist obligate brood parasite, in sympatric Yellow Warbler (Setophaga petechia) and Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia) nests at Mono Lake, California, USA. We detected significant differences in all three color components across nestlings of different species (R: P < 0.0001; G: P < 0.0001; B: P < 0.0001), but differences among cowbird nestlings from the nests of these two hosts were not significant (R: P = 0.543; G: P = 0.737; B: P = 0.319). Principal components results were mixed: Principal Component I described brightness and accounted for 84% of the variance. It did not differ among cowbird nestlings from nests of different hosts (P = 0.319).Principal Component II described chromaticity and accounted for 14% of the variance, which differed significantly among cowbird nestlings from the two different hosts' nests (P = 0.026). Color differences between cowbird nestlings from nests of different host species may result from selective parasitism by female parasites based on host nestling flange morphology, or ontogenetic effects on cowbird nestlings reared by different host species.
41932812|We identified natural pits associated with avian mortality at the base of Kiska Volcano in the western Aleutian Islands, Alaska in 2007. Living, moribund, and dead birds were regularly found at low spots in a canyon between two lava flows during 2001-2006, but the phenomenon was attributed to natural trapping and starvation of fledgling seabirds (mostly Least Auklets, Aethia pusilla) at a colony site with > 1 million birds present. However, 302 birds of eight species, including passerines, were found dead at the site during 2007-2010, suggesting additional factors were involved. Most carcasses showed no signs of injury and concentrations of dead birds had accumulated in a few distinctive low pits in the canyon. Gas samples from these locations showed elevated CO concentrations in late 2010. Analysis of carcasses indicated no evidence of blunt trauma or internal bleeding. Volcanic gases accumulating at these poorly ventilated sites may have caused the observed mortality, but are temporally variable. Most auklets breeding in the Aleutian Islands do so in recent lava flows that provide breeding habitat; our study documents a cost of this unusual habitat selection.
41932813|The aerial arthropod prey of Neotropical Palm Swifts (Tachornis squamata) and Lesser Swallow-tailed Swifts (Panyptila cayennensis) in Venezuela included seven Orders and 60 families of insects plus spiders and mites. Dptera were the most numerous prey (>50%) taken by both swifts. Prey size ranged from 0.5 to 7.9 mm and averaged 2.43 and 2.77 mm, respectively. Both prey type and foraging habitat differences of these swifts could be interpreted as mechanisms for resource partitioning.
41932814|About 200 North American Eared Grebes (Podiceps nigricollis californicus) at Tule Lake Refuge in northern California were observed engaging in successive waves of mass pattering and pattering flights on 25 May 2011. Most grebes present in a part of a canal were involved in this activity. Counts of grebes on the morning of 26 May suggest an important portion of the Eared Grebes seen in pattering could have left the area over night. The behavior was characterized as zugunruhe. Directed mass pattering of Eared Grebes may contribute to synchronization of the onward migration of the birds involved.
41932815|The 'Nest Protection Hypothesis' suggests that some birds add aromatic plants to their nests to repel or kill ectoparasites. This behavior has been described for several species, including the Eurasian Blue Tit (Cyanistes caeruleus). We studied the reproductive performance, based on 26 nests (in nest boxes), of this species in mixed forested areas of Quercus spp. and Pinus pinea in the Parque Florestal de Monsanto, the largest park of Lisbon, Portugal. The frequency of aromatic plants in nests was compared with frequency of these plants in the study area. The three most frequent aromatic plants (Dittrichia viscosa, Lavandula dentata, Calamintha baetica) in nests were used more than expected from their availability in the study area. We could not reject the null hypothesis that nest survival rate is independent of the presence of aromatic plants in the nest.
41932816|We describe a nest and nesting activity of the Cinereous Warbling Finch (Poospiza cinerea) in Paredo da Serra do Curral City Park, State of Minas Gerais in southeastern Brazil. Little is known about the reproductive biology of this globally vulnerable species. The nest was built with fragments of grass spikes in an Australian pine (Casuarina equisetifolia). The clutch consisted of three eggs. We describe courtship feeding behavior of the Cinereous Warbling Finch and brood parasitism of the nest by the Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis).
41932817|We report the first nest of the Smoky Bush Tyrant (Myiotheretes fumigatus) which was found on 11 October 2009 at the Yanayacu Biological Station, Napo Province in Ecuador. The nest was a shallow open cup, 2 m above ground on the side of a dead stump covered in epiphytes. The nest was 12 cm wide by 6.5 cm in height; internally, the cup was 7 cm wide by 4 cm deep and was lined predominantly with scales from the tree-fern (Cyathea spp.), but included a few small sticks and brightly colored feathers. Both eggs were predominantly white with a few small, widely dispersed, chocolate brown spots, predominantly around the fattest area. They measured 24.0  18 and 23.0  17.5 mm, and weighed 3.6 and 3.5 g, respectively. The first fully feathered fledgling left the nest on 2 November and the second on 3 November, for a nestling period of 16-17 days. We noted the presence of a third bird (besides the pair) which remained within the territory through the entire nesting period, at times in close association with the breeding pair.
41932818|We present the first detailed description of the nest and eggs of the Black-bellied Seedeater (Sporophila melanogaster) based on observation of 64 nests in three areas of grassland in southeastern Santa Catarina and northeastern Rio Grande do Sul states, Brazil. The nests were found from November through March. The nest has the shape of a shallow basket, constructed with portions of dried grasses and strung with spider webs. Half of the nests were constructed in Ludwigia sericea (Onagraceae), and the other half were in 15 other plant species. Of these, the most important were Eupatorium polystachyum (10%) and Achyrocline vauthieriana (6%) (Asteraceae). Only the female constructs the nest. The eggs are ovoid and colored whitish with brownish-purple spots near the wider portion. Clutch size was two eggs, rarely three.
41932819|We report the first nesting record of the Central American population of Brown Creeper (Certhia americana) in the La Montaona pine-oak (Pinus-Quercus) forest of Chalatenango Department, northern El Salvador. The nest was in a cavity in the trunk of a pine (Pinus oocarpa) tree. Most insectivorous birds in this region breed during the rainy season when insects are generally most abundant; however, nesting of the Brown Creeper occurred at the height of the dry season, during January and February.
41932820|Brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) typically decreases the number of host juveniles that fledge: however, little information exists regarding the effect of cowbird parasitism during the post-fledging period. We monitored 115 Ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapilla) nests in 2006-2008 in northcentral Minnesota, six of which were parasitized. We used radiotelemetry to monitor movements of 36 Ovenbird fledglings (9 additional fledglings depredated <24 hrs after fledging were excluded from the movement analysis) from non-parasitized nests and one fledgling from a parasitized nest. Clutch sizes and productivity were lower in parasitized Ovenbird nests than non-parasitized nests, similar to populations at other locations. The fledgling we tracked from a parasitized nest (in 2008) died after 26 days. It was the only fledgling in our study that died (n = 20) with no sign of predation and an empty stomach. That fledgling took 12 days to travel >50 m from its nest and 25 days to travel >100 m from its nest. Fledglings from non-parasitized broods tracked for 25 days during 2008 (n = 16) took 4.1  0.71 and 9.5  1.14 days to travel the same distances. Our observations suggest that negative effects of brood parasitism may persist into the postfledging period, possibly confirming observations of cowbird-only survival compiled from the literature.
41932821|We report the first observation of double brooding by Black-bellied Whistling-Ducks (Dendrocygna autumnalis). We monitored 151 nest boxes on the Rob and Bessie Welder Wildlife Refuge in south Texas during 1998 and 1999 and uniquely marked all incubating pairs of Black-bellied Whistling-Ducks using these nesting structures. We color-banded a pair of Black-bellied Whistling-Ducks in May 1999 that was incubating a clutch of 21 eggs, from which 18 young eventually fledged. The same pair later incubated a second clutch of 15 eggs in July and August 1999, of which 12 hatched. Double brooding is apparently not a common reproductive strategy for Black-bellied Whistling-Ducks in south Texas, but could be facilitated through biparental investment in most aspects of reproduction, including incubation and brood rearing, and a relatively long potential breeding season in most of this species' breeding range.
41932822|Production of a second brood, or double brooding, by a single female in one breeding season has not been reported for any species of grouse in North America. We describe the breeding history of one of 55 radio-marked female Greater Prairie-Chickens (Tympanuchus cupido) that successfully renested after losing a brood from a first nesting attempt during the 2011 breeding season in Kansas. Observations of double brooding by grouse might only be possible in areas like the Flint Hills of Kansas, where populations have a long breeding season in combination with a high rate of brood loss.
41932823|We report an apparent protective effect of neighboring Sora (Porzana Carolina) nests on Red-winged Blackbird {Agelaius phoeniceus) nests in an experimental study. We suggest that quail eggs used in Sora nests acted as a supernormal stimulus drawing Marsh Wrens (Cistothorus palustris), the main predator in the system, from Red-winged Blackbird nests.
41480735|We investigated the post-fledging ecology of the Northern Pygmy-Owl (Glaucidium gnomo) at two study areas in the Rocky Mountains of Montana and Idaho from 2002 to 2009. We observed 16 successful nesting attempts that fledged from two to seven young. Fledging dates ranged from 18 June to 5 August and all nests were vacated within a 2-day period. Post-fledging behavioral data were collected regularly from fledging through initiation of natal dispersal from five radiomarked family groups and opportunistically from three additional family groups. Post-fledging movement data were collected from eight family groups and two males that were suspected of nesting. Adults attended broods for 9 to 30 days (females) and 31 to 34 days (males) postfledging, after which they were not observed associating with their young. Young remained within the natal territory for 1 to 10 days following departure of adult males, after which they abruptly initiated natal dispersal. Areas used by family groups during the post-fledging dependency period ranged from 34.6 to 94.5 ha. Family groups were active throughout the day, but activity was notably more intense during crepuscular periods. Our earliest observations of young hunting occurred 9 days after fledging and 47% of all fledgling hunting attempts observed (n = 75) were successful. Adults and fledglings used vocalizations in contexts consistent with previous descriptions with the exception of an undescribed two-note vocalization that appeared to function as a contact call preceding prey deliveries.
41480736|Recent studies have suggested climate change could amplify the differences between arrival dates of male and female passerines. We investigated the generality of this finding and additional questions related to protandry by analyzing 32 years of banding data for seven species of migratory passerines. Six species exhibited significant protandry with males arriving on average between 2 and 6 days earlier than females. Only Baltimore Orioles (Icterus glbula) did not have significant differences between average arrival dates of males and females. The magnitude of protandry did not change in response to warming spring temperatures during the period of study, and none of the ecological variables examined explained variation in the amount of protandry. Males of all species studied were significantly larger than females. However, the magnitude of size difference also did not explain the amount of protandry observed. Arrival dates of males and females within each species tended to follow similar trends over time and sex ratios did not change over time for any species. Changes in sex ratios of Mourning Warblers (Geothlypis philadelphia)-more females in warmer years however, were significantly related to mean temperature in the year of migration. Protandry may remain fairly consistent as the climate changes, although further research is needed to test the generality of this pattern.
41480737|We compared migrant bird recapture rate, stopover time, mass gain, and fat class between Star Island, New Hampshire and Appledore Island, Maine during spring and fall migration in relation to differences in relative species abundance between the islands; and examined potential movement of migrants between the islands. The average recapture rate in spring was 5.7% on Star Island and 3.6% on Appledore Island. Five species were recaptured more frequently on Star Island and one species more frequently on Appledore Island. There was no difference in mean minimum stopover time during spring (2.4 days on Star Island; 2.5 days on Appledore Island) and fall (2.9 days on Star Island; 3.2 days on Appledore Island). Three species had a longer mean stopover time on Appledore Island than Star Island. The island with the greater percentage of recaptures and longer stopover had more captures for a given species. Mass gains were significant for six species during spring (27.3%) and 10 during fall (38.5%) on Star Island, and five (22.7%) during spring and 13 (50.0%) during fall on Appledore Island. Five species had a difference in rate of mass gain between the islands. The between-island difference in species abundance was not reflected in between-island differences in mass gain, except for Red-eyed Vireo {Vireo olivaceus) during fall. There was no clear pattern in species differences in fat levels and differences in captures, stopover length, or mass gain between the islands. The fat-class and mass-gain results suggest habitat use, as measured by relative abundance, is not based on the ability to gain mass at the time of stopover. The notable fall mass gains for Red-eyed Vireo illustrate the availability of food resources for some species on both islands. Only 42 of 10,437 migrant birds banded moved from one island to the other. There was little evidence of movement between islands in a seasonally-appropriate direction for continued migration, or evidence indicating a shift between islands after initial capture.
41480738|We developed a field survey protocol based on the North American Breeding Bird Survey to evaluate the efficiency and reliability of a bird monitoring scheme in the Neotropics, known as NeoMaps. A team of 21 amateur and professional ornithologists conducted bird counts at 27 locations distributed throughout Venezuela between March and April 2010. Locations selected followed a stratified spatial sampling design derived from environmental and biogeographical variables. Two complementary survey protocols were implemented in consecutive days along 40-kmlong roadside transects. Three-minute point counts were performed at 50 stops, 800 m from each other on day 1. Cumulative species lists were recorded at a selection of 10 stops sampled for 9 min each, divided into three consecutive 3-min periods on day 2. We recorded 593 species at the 27 sites combined, representing 57% of the 1,033 potential species, or 43% of all known Venezuelan species. An additional 83 species were recorded outside of the formal point counts, for a total of 676 species detected. Groups such as hummingbirds and most waterbirds had unusually low numbers of both species and individuals, probably due to an abnormally dry year. Our survey methods appear to be appropriate for surveying most common diurnal non-colonial species. This is the first large-scale, systematic bird survey in Venezuela or, to our knowledge, in any other tropical country.
41480739|The St Pierre and Miquelon Archipelago hosts the only French Leach's Storm-Petrel (Oceanodroma leucorhoa) colony. We conducted a survey during the 2008 breeding season to estimate the breeding population size on Grand Colombier Island. This survey included an estimation of burrow detection probability using a double-observer approach. We estimated that 3% of Leach's Storm-Petrels nests had failed before we started the survey. Nest occupancy probability was neither affected by slope nor vegetation type and was 0.546  0.029. Burrow density was positively affected by slope and, consequently, was much lower on the plateau than on island slopes. Burrow detection probability was neither affected by observer nor by habitat and was 0.89  0.01. We estimated the population to be 363,787 [95% CI = 295,502-432,072] breeding pairs, which is among the largest Leach's Storm-Petrel colonies in the northwestern Atlantic Ocean.
41480740|Saltmarsh Sparrows (Ammodramus caudacutus) are non-territorial, lack pair-bonds, and practice promiscuous mating behavior and obligate maternal care of young. Behavioral details of mating behavior and associated intermale aggressive behavior are poorly understood in the species. We report the results of an observational study of mating and agonistic behavior of individually marked breeding birds in New York. We witnessed 1,265 sexual and agonistic interactions within and among males and females from 1977 through 1985. We found no evidence of male mating aggregations, and male aggressive behavior was prevalent only in male-initiated sexual interactions. Females solicit matings from males during nest-building, but the behavior is inconspicuous and not associated with male aggression. Males spend the morning patrolling their home ranges, and chase or approach females they encounter anywhere in their breeding habitat. Males often concentrate patrol activity in the vicinity of nests under construction, but we found little evidence they know the location of most nest sites. Some males seek to forcibly mount females on the ground at any breeding stage, despite female resistance. Females thwart forced mountings in 57% of cases either by fighting with the males, or by uttering an aggressive call. When a more persistent male suppresses a female's resistance, she then crouches passively as he assumes a copulatory position on her back. We discuss this behavior in terms of female control of forced mountings, female choice of mates, and forced mating as a tactic of males that appear not to know the fertility status of females. Males have a large cloacal protuberance, which suggests sperm competition is strongly developed in the species. We caution that evolution of the unusual mating behavior in Saltmarsh Sparrows must be understood in relation to the different sexual behaviors of its closest relatives.
41480741|We compared the amount and type of acoustic competition experienced by Veeries (Catharus fuscescens) when they sang in the dawn chorus as opposed to when they sang in the dusk chorus. Veery songs tended to be masked more often at dawn than at dusk. Veery songs were masked 2.4 times per 10-song sequence at dawn and 1.2 times per 10-song sequence at dusk. A larger number of species were responsible for masking that occurred at dawn. At least 12 species masked Veery songs in our sample, and all identified species masked at dawn; only seven of the 12 also masked at dusk. These results represent the first empirical data documenting natural differences in acoustic competition at dawn and dusk. Acoustic competition may help explain why, in addition to singing at dawn, Veeries and other thrushes also have a pronounced dusk chorus.
41480742|We studied the population ecology of Pacific Wrens (Troglodytes pacificus) in 2003 and 2004 breeding across elevations from 100 to 1,300 m in coastal mountain forests in southwestern British Columbia, Canada to examine if this species is adapted to upper montane and subalpine habitats. We found fewer territories at high elevation, a higher proportion of unmated males, fewer nests per mated male, and no returns of banded adults or juveniles. The breeding season was 61% shorter (31 vs. 79 days), and mass of nestlings (at 11-12 days of age) and nest survival were lower at high elevation compared to lower elevation sites. Clutch size, incubation and nestling periods, parental provisioning rates of nestlings, and adult morphology did not vary with elevation. Annual fecundity measures declined with increasing elevation with no apparent compensatory increases in other vital rates such as survival of adults or offspring.
41480743|There is little information about nesting ecology of the federally endangered Black-capped Vireo (Vireo atricapilla) in the southern and western region of its breeding range, which is characterized by xeric thornscrub and patchy low-growing vegetation. We mapped territories and monitored 119 Black-capped Vireo nests across seven study sites in 2009 and 2010 in Val Verde County, Texas in the Devil's River region on the western edge of the Edwards Plateau. We observed 69 nests with cameras to identify nest predators. Clutch size was significantly smaller in 2009 (3.4  0.82) than in 2010 (3.8  0.43). Both nest depredation and parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) were > 10% higher in 2009 than in 2010. There was a large diversity of nest predators identified including Brown-headed Cowbird (n = 4), snakes (n = 4), and Greater Roadrunner {Geococcyx californianus) (n = 3). Species identified that have not been previously observed as Black-capped Vireo nest predators were bobcat (Lynx rufus), common raccoon (Procyon lotor), Greater Roadrunner, and the greater arid-land katydid (Neobarrettia spinosa). Productivity of Black-capped Vireos in the Devil's River area appeared to be heavily influenced by weather, particularly precipitation during the breeding season.
41480744|We describe the nest and eggs of the Marsh Antwren (Stymphalornis acutirostris), a recently described species which is the only member of the Thamnophilidae restricted to marsh habitats. We conducted 1,560 hrs of nest searching in tidal marshes of southern Brazil and found 178 nests. All nests were of dry fibers, straws, and silk. Nineteen plant species were used for nest attachment. All nests had a clutch of two white eggs with several irregular brown spots scattered over the entire egg, concentrated at the middle or the largest pole. The strategy of nest attachment to vertical structures used by the Marsh Antwren was previously unknown in the Thamnophilidae.
41480745|We present the first description of a breeding record of the Harpy Eagle (Harpia harpyja) in Belize, and describe the subsequent fledging of the juvenile. We discovered the nest on 27 November 2010 with a single 4-5 week-old chick, and began focal observations. The juvenile spent 56.3% of 71 observation days feeding, and the parents delivered food to the nest at a rate of one item every 2.04-3.33 days from late January to April. The most frequent food items were the common opossum (Didelphis marsupialis), white-nosed coatimundi (Nasua narica), and Yucatan black howler monkey (Alouatta pigra). We placed a satellite GPS-PPT transmitter on the juvenile Harpy Eagle on 14 April 2011 to track its movement patterns after fledging. Soon after, the parents stopped returning to the nest, the juvenile fledged, and for 28 days we delivered food to the young eagle in place of its parents. The abandonment of the juvenile by the parents may have been caused by low food abundance caused by drought conditions and/or placement of the transmitter may have had a role. The male subsequently returned to feed the juvenile. We believe these eagles represent one of the northernmost known extant breeding pairs of Harpy Eagles in the Americas.
41480746|We used video cameras in 2008-2009 to record provisioning activities at Dickcissel (Spiza americana) nests in and around Conservation Reserve Program field buffers in north-central Mississippi, USA. We simultaneously observed foraging flight distances of parents. Provisioning rate (P = 0.412), biomass (P = 0.161), and foraging distance (P = 0.159) did not increase with nestling age. Parents delivered larger items to meet demand associated with older nestlings (P = 0.010-0.001). This suggests energetic costs of changes in prey selection were less than costs of increasing the number or distance of provisioning trips. Presence of male helpers increased provisioning rate (P < 0.001) but not biomass (P = 0.992) because males brought smaller prey items (P = 0.001-0.021). Presence of observers 30 m from the nest reduced provisioning rates (P = 0.005) and biomass delivered (P = 0.066). Lack of habitat effects for any aspect of provisioning suggests grass field buffers provided nestling food resources similar to surrounding habitats. Use of continuous video monitoring of nest activity allows well-concealed activities including provisioning and male helping to be directly observed and better quantified.
41480747|We explored the relationship between Sprague's Pipit (Anthus spragueii) nest (n = 125) survival and the distance from their nests to grassland edge and other linear features on Bowdoin National Wildlife Refuge in north-central Montana from 1997 to 2007. Specifically, we studied the effect of distance to roads (secondary paved road and tertiary improved and unimproved dirt roads), an agriculture field, an active railroad right-of-way, and lacustrine shoreline on nest daily survival rate (DSR). The overall DSR was 0.95  0.0057 (SE) with a 95% confidence interval of 0.94-0.96. We considered how models with distance thresholds (within 50, 100, 200, or 300 m) affected DSR while controlling for important covariates. None of the distance models improved the model over the minimum AIC c model containing only nondistance covariates. There was no support for distance to any of the edges, including roads, having an effect on DSR relative to the minimum AIC c model that contained three non-distance covariates.
41480748|We estimated the population density of the Helmeted Curassow (Pawci pawci) in Tama National Park (TNP) Colombia, using visual counts between December 2006 and December 2008. We used six line transects (1 km each) equitably distributed in a natural forest between 800 and 1,200 m asi in the southern part of the park. The sampling effort was 588 hrs with a total distance of 490 km, a detection rate of 0.06 records/hr, and an encounter rate of 0.08 individuals/km. Only solitary individuals were recorded (n = 40); the estimated density was 4.8 individuals/km. Most detections occurred in the lower strata of the forest (floor and sub-canopy) where hunters take advantage of curassows in the lower strata for successful harvest. The southern sector of TNP becomes important in the dry season. Our study suggests a large population is in TNP, but harvesting activities including removal of eggs, chicks, and juveniles, and hunting adults are affecting the reproductive rate and population of the species.
41480749|We studied the Red-billed Currasow (Crax blumenbachii) in Vale Natural Reserve, Linhares, Espirito Santo State, Brazil, using camera traps. We found the Red-billed Curassow present in the entire area of the reserve (~ 22,000 ha) during 40 months of camera trapping (2005-2008). Most records were of single individuals, especially males, but pairs and even groups of individuals were also recorded. Males were paired with one and two females, suggesting polygyny in the species. The species was recorded throughout the day with one peak from 0500 to 0600 hrs and another after 1600 hrs. The daily activity pattern was similar for males and females. The number and widespread nature of the records suggests the local population of this species may be higher than previously thought.
41480750|The musculature of the pelvic appendage of the Chinese Grouse (Tetrastes sewerzowi) is described in detail.T. sewerzowi exhibits the same features as other tetraonids in the absence of M. adductor digiti II, and the relatively weak development of other intrinsic foot muscles, which are thought to be an adaptation to the extreme cold climate of the habitat of grouse. Myological modifications include weak development of the vincula between the flexor tendons to the digits (M. flexor perforane digiti III and M. flexor perforane et perforatus digiti III, M. flexor digitorum longus, and M. flexor hallus longus), the proximolateral insertion of M. flexor perforane digiti II, the well-developed middle head of M. flexor perforane digiti IV, and the ossification of the insertion tendon of M. extensor brevis digiti IV. These features are suggested to be associated with the requirement of finer control over the individual digits while moving on the tree, especially a thin branch.
41480751|Observations on birds feeding on fruits of the invasive shrub Lontana cmara (Supirrosa) were conducted on Santa Cruz Island, Galapagos (Ecuador) in the Dry Zone during the 2009 dry season. The endemic ground finches Geospiza magnirostris (Large Ground Finch) and G fortis (Medium Ground Finch) were recorded eating Lantana seeds with G. fortis the main consumer (>90% of records). Both finch species crushed the seeds and ate the embryos, discarding the exocarp and empty seed coats. They also dropped entire fruits to the ground, which could contribute to shortdistance dispersal, but both finches also consumed fruits of L. camara on the ground. Density of L. camara seedlings under adult plants was higher in rockier areas than in bare soil since seeds were less accessible to predators and/or found more suitable microsites for germination and establishment. Both species of finches serve as short-distance dispersers, but mainly as seed predators of L. camara fruits.
41480752|Results of queries through public avian list-servers and a thorough literature search formed a data base to synthesize patterns of birds trapped in spider webs. Sixty-nine cases of birds, representing 54 species in 23 families, were reported trapped in webs. Hummingbirds were the most diverse family (9 species) and had the most cases of entrapment (n = 20). Archilochus colubris represented the species with the most cases of entrapment (n = 6). Mean mass and wing chord length of all species trapped were 11 g and 61 mm, respectively. Eighty-seven percent of all individuals had mass < 15 g and 88% had a wing chord <90 mm. Phaethornis longuemareus and Mellisuga minima represented the smallest species (mass = 2 g, wing chord = 37 mm), and Streptopelia senegalensis was the largest (mass = 80 g, wing chord = 138 mm). Thirty cases of birds were entrapped without human intervention: 22 died and eight not wrapped in silk freed themselves. Those wrapped in silk invariably died unless freed by a human observer. One-half of all reported spider webs were of the genus Nephila, and all were orb weavers except for a single Latrodectus. Nephila clavipes entrapped nine species representing 14 cases, ranging from Mellisuga minima (mass = 2 g, wing chord = 37 mm) to Catharus ustulatus (mass = 23 g, wing chord = 93 mm). Patterns, causes, and consequences of birds entrapped in spider webs are discussed, including orb weavers as opportunistic predators of birds trapped in webs, and spider webs as a natural environmental hazard to birds.
41480753|We investigated nest site selection and breeding success of White Storks (Ciconia ciconia) in relation to geographical features, weather, and land use in western Turkey. Locations of nests in relation to altitude, distance to the nearest river and stream, slope, and aspect were examined between 2008 and 2010 in Sindirgi District. Population dynamics of breeding White Storks were surveyed in the central town in 1984, 1987, and between 1992 and 2010. White Storks nested in only 17 of 74 settlements. Twenty-six of 46 nests were occupied in 2010 with a mean density of 1.72 breeding pairs/km 2 . Settlements with nests were significantly lower ( SD) in elevation (283.3  77.3 vs. 622.5  230.7 m) and closer to the nearest river (1,646.2  1,004.5 vs. 4,101.7  3,231.5 m) than settlements without nests. No significant difference was found between the mean aspects of the settlements and the distances to the nearest stream between these two groups of settlements. The number of breeding pairs and fledglings had a significantly decreasing trend throughout the study period. The number of breeding pairs was positively correlated with the annual total area of crop fields and negatively correlated with the total area of fruit production. The number of breeding pairs was positively correlated with total and maximum precipitation in April, but breeding success was negatively correlated with mean total precipitation and mean maximum precipitation during the breeding season.
41480754|Two cases of prolonged incubation by White Storks (Ciconia ciconia) were observed in the same nest in 2009 and 2010 in southwest Poland. Incubation lasted at least 59 and 65 days, respectively; i.e., 84 and 103% longer than the average incubation period. Extended incubation was accompanied by other abnormal breeding behavior. The lack of observed copulation in either breeding season, an extremely short arrival-breeding interval, and early clutch reduction suggest the eggs were infertile. This is the first record of prolonged incubation in the Ciconiidae, and probably the first record of repeated prolonged incubation by wild birds.
41480755|We examined stopover site fidelity by Tennessee Warblers (Oreothlypis peregrina) at two Tennessee banding stations (Whigg Meadow and Big Bald) operated during fall migration, ~1,000 km from the nearest breeding areas. We captured and banded 4,324 Tennessee Warblers at Whigg Meadow from 1999 to 2008 with 14 individuals (0.3%) recaptured in subsequent years. We banded 5,514 Tennessee Warblers at Big Bald from 2003 to 2008 where, despite relatively close geographical proximity to Whigg Meadow (<150 km between sites), no individuals were recaptured outside of the initial capture year. These inter-annual recaptures, to our knowledge, reflect the highest reoccurrence of a Nearctic-neotropical migratory passerine at a single stopover site. Our results provide evidence that passerine stopover site fidelity may occur at considerable distances from both breeding and wintering areas, and differ between geographically similar stopover sites.
41480756|A mated female was observed singing in a color-banded population of Common Yellowthroats (Geothlypis trichas) in New York State in 2011. This female continued to sing, often concurrently with her mate, for ~1 week, at which time she completed nest construction and was not observed singing for the remainder of the season. Her song did not resemble any normal Common Yellowthroat song or vocalization. No previous publications have described female song in this species; common explanations for female song in other species include abnormally high testosterone levels, development of male-like characteristics with age, and increased territory defense demands at high densities. We found little support for any of these hypotheses, as our singing female was within the normal range for breeding density, testosterone, morphology, ornamentation, and several physiological parameters. We did not know the age of our female and could not discount old age as a cause of singing; however, other known-age, old females in the population were not observed singing. The potential explanations for singing seem inadequate in this case and the female may have been anomalous in some dimension that we did not measure, or a combination of factors may have contributed to the behavior. Alternatively, female song may be functional but only used in rarely observed social situations in this species.
41480757|I observed an exceptionally high density of Hermit Thrush (Catharus guttatus) nests (3.1 nests/ha) over two breeding seasons in an isolated 1.3-ha portion of an earthworm-free study site in the Chequamegon-Nicolet National Forest, Wisconsin. This density was much greater than the 0.1 to 0.6 nests/ha observed over the rest of the study area and exceeds by an order of magnitude most previously reported estimates for this species. The mean distance among Hermit Thrush nests in earthworm-free sites (215 m; 95% CI = 180-250 m) was lower than in invaded sites (250 m; 95% CI = 236-264 m); this difference was not statistically significant. Nest density did not differ significantly between categories. An abundance of suitable nest sites in a favored nesting substrate (clubmoss; Lycopodium spp.) could have contributed to the exceptionally high density of Hermit Thrush nests observed. High Hermit Thrush nest densities may occur in association with forest floor conditions that are characteristic of earthworm-free areas.
41480758|The Orange-eared Tanager (Chlorochrysa calliparea) occurs from southern Colombia to northern Bolivia between 900 and 2,000 m elevation. We describe for the first time the nest of the genus Chlorochrysa, based on five nests of C. calliparea, and provide information on incubation and nestling growth from August through December 2009 and 2010 in Manu National Park, Cusco, Peru. The Orange-eared Tanager has a distinct and unique nest location in clumps of moss hanging from horizontal branches, previously unknown among tanagers. The nest structure, however, was similar to that of most tanagers. We observed use of a nest-like structure as a dormitory, not previously reported for the Thraupidae. Clutch size was one egg and the nestling period was 21 days. The female made an average of 8.8 foraging trips/day from the nest which lasted on average 33.1 min with nest attentiveness of 58.9%. The small clutch suggests close affinity with mountain tanagers.
41480759|I monitored the breeding biology of House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) in a suburban colony in Cook County, Illinois, USA. I found a significant statistical correlation between clutch size and the base area of the nest box (r = 0.592, P < 0.0029) with mean clutch size varying from 4.49 eggs (in a 'small' nest box, 112 cm 2 basal area) to 4.77 eggs (in a 'large' nest box, 221 cm basal area). Other measures of breeding success (hatching and fledging success, mean egg mass, and nestling condition) had no statistically significant relationship with nest-box size. Measures of nest site preferences, as suggested by earlier date of first egg of season or by greater number of broods per season, also show no statistically significant correlation with nest-box size.
41480760|We report an unusual case of a monogamous pair of Northern Flickers (Colaptes auratus) initiating a second clutch while there were still nestlings in the first nest. The male and female incubated at both nests but only the male fed nestlings at the first nest. The second nest attempt was abandoned after the first nestlings fledged, possibly because the two broods were too synchronous in timing for the male to contribute sufficiently to both. Double-brooding has not been previously documented for Northern Flickers.
41480761|Evolutionary theory predicts birds should adjust the sex ratio of their broods in response to external factors that differentially affect the reproductive value of each sex. We examined the brood sex ratio in the Lilac-crowned Parrot (Amazona finschi) in relation to climate, hatching date, and hatching order. We used polymerase chain reaction amplifications to identify the gender of 66 nestlings from 32 clutches spanning 7 years. There was a tendency to produce more female offspring in years of high nestling survival following high rainfall with a slight female-bias in third-hatched nestlings. We found no significant associations between brood sex ratio and rainfall, hatching date, or hatching order within clutches. Our results suggest the examined factors provide insufficient differential costs or benefits of offspring gender to promote sex ratio bias in this monomorphic species.
41480762|We present the first documentation of nestling care by multiple male feeders at nests of the Veery (Catharus fuscescens) in a Mid-Atlantic Piedmont forest in northern Delaware. This is only the second confirmation of this behavior in a Nearctic-neotropical migrant songbird. Five of six nests (83%) were attended by a male that concurrently fed nestlings at a second or third nest. Three of six nests (50%) were attended by one female and two males. No females were observed at more than one nest. We monitored > 140 Veery nests at our study site since 1998, and believe the dense breeding habitat and single-brooded nature of the Veery have inhibited our ability to confirm this behavior prior to 2011. Our data suggest this behavior is widespread in our study population.
41480763|We observed Eastern Meadowlark (Sturnella magna) nests in Conservation Reserve Program grasslands in east-central Illinois to examine the influence of the surrounding agricultural landscape on nestling diets. Esophageal ligatures were applied to 3-and 6-day old nestlings to examine food items brought to the nest. The most common items were spiders (44% of total volume; primarily wolf spiders [Hogna spp.]), followed by orthopterans (23%; crickets, grasshoppers, and katydids), and lepidopteran larvae (18%, primarily cutworms). Adult Eastern Meadowlarks foraged more often than expected in soybean fields.
41480764|Darters (Anhingidae) are among the most territorial Pelecaniformes, but most of the observed aggression is between males and limited primarily to the breeding season. We observed three instances of agonistic interactions between two female Anhingas (Anhinga anhinga) foraging in a pond of an urban park in southeastern Brazil. A foraging resident female chased another female as soon as it caught sight of the latter approaching, which caused the intruder to dive and retreat. The resident female vocalized toward the site where the intruder disappeared while still in the water. The resident then vocalized from a perch from time to time toward the pond while drying its feathers. We played back its recorded call and the bird vocalized toward us suggesting this vocalization was territorial. Agonistic behavior at foraging sites merits further observation to learn whether it is restricted to particular individuals and/or periods.
41480765|The House Crow (Corvus splendens) is a bioinvader to the Red Sea region and has been shown to negatively impact indigenous species. We describe attempts by House Crows to acquire an ordinarily inaccessible, high quality food source by mobbing Western Osprey (Pandion haliaetus) in large coordinated groups. The crows mobbed perched Osprey that had successfully caught fish in 176 observed attempts to steal the otherwise inaccessible food source. However, crows succeeded in forcing Osprey to abandon fish on only seven occasions (~4%). The crows then jointly fed on the abandoned fish. The consistency in mobbing Osprey and the low rate of success suggests House Crows are aware of the energetic value of fish.
41480766|Howell et al. (2003) proposed modifications to the system of molt terminology for birds developed by Humphrey and Parkes (1959) to address a perceived inconsistency in the Humphrey-Parkes ('H-P') system that Howell et al. (2003) termed the 'first basic problem'. These modifications have been adopted by mainstream ornithological literature, but are premature and unnecessary. The recharacterization of the prejuvenal and first prebasic molts, and resulting plumages, by Howell et al. (2003) is: (1) not supported by scientific studies, (2) inconsistent with several factors that support classification of these molts and plumages under the H-P system, and (3) contrary to the fundamental purpose of that system. Moreover, the H-P system can be interpreted in a manner that resolves the 'first basic problem' without recharacterizing the prejuvenal and first prebasic molts and resulting plumages. The H-P system also can be interpreted to start the first molt cycle with commencement of the initial acquisition of contour feathers and provide a fixed point to start a nomenclature of molts and plumages. The four molt strategies identified by Howell et al. (2003) may be explained by variability in conventional first prebasic and first prealternate molts and are not dependent on adoption of their proposed modifications of the H-P system. Ornithologists are encouraged to re-examine the modifications to the H-P system proposed by Howell et al. (2003) and to resolve existing conflicts in North American molt terminology by adopting the proposed interpretations of the H-P system identified in this paper.
23324549|We describe the juvenile plumages of the Cinereous Mourner (Laniocera hypopyrra) and the Brazilian Laniisoma (Laniisoma elegans). Both L. hypopyrra and L. elegans possess a dramatically conspicuous plumage as juveniles in contrast to the generally cryptic plumage pattern exhibited by most juvenile birds. They are predominantly covered by cinnamon-orange feathers with black terminal spots, contrasting with the nest and the predominant colors of their environment. This colorful plumage presumably makes them more at risk from predation by visually oriented animals (e.g., raptors and primates), during one of the most vulnerable phases of their life, and strongly suggests these plumages function as a true, or false (mimicry), signal of 'unprofitability'. Previous knowledge concerning the phylogenetic relationships between these two genera, and the juvenile plumage patterns of other species placed in the Tityridae indicate this shared character in L. hypopyrra and L. elegans represents a synapomorphy within this clade, thereby providing additional evidence of their relationship.
23324550|Glyphorynchus spirurus (Wedge-billed Woodcreeper) is one of the most common birds in the understory of many tropical forests of Central and South America but few studies have focused on its abundance and distribution. We use data from mist nets and direct observations over a 10-year period to examine patterns of abundance and distribution on two 100-ha plots (Harpia, Puma), 1.7 km apart in lowland forest of eastern Ecuador. Birds were captured in mist nets (96 nets/plot) that were open for 6 hrs/day for 1 day each in January and February; direct observations were made along transects within each plot during February (7 yrs) and April (4 yrs). We recorded 861 captures (447 recaptures) on Harpia and 963 captures (540 recaptures) on Puma; capture rates (birds/100 mist-net hrs) were slightly higher on Puma, largely a result of the greater numbers of recaptures. Number of individuals captured per year did not differ between plots. Mean ( SE) recapture distance within a year was less on Harpia (94.5  6.1 m) than on Puma (121.6  7.3 m) but recapture distances between years did not differ between plots (108 and 97 m, respectively for Harpia and Puma). Number of captures had a clumped distribution with some nets capturing many more individuals than others; number of captures per net was not correlated with captures at nearby nets. We recorded 490 Glyphorynchus during observations on Harpia (Feb samples) and 384 on Puma. Number of observations was greater on Harpia during 6 of 7 years. Numbers of observations had clumped distribution patterns on both plots; significant autocorrelations likely reflected the difficulty of detecting individuals by voice when >50 m from a transect. Comparisons with published data from other sites in Central and South America indicate considerable spatial variation in abundance but reasons for geographic variation in abundance need further investigation.
23324551|Song repertoire size and extent of song sharing provide information about social interactions that occur in songbird species. We recorded the songs of eight male Clay-colored Thrushes (Turdus grayi) in San Jos, Costa Rica during the 2008 breeding season. We classified 695 songs and 5,032 syllables using visual inspection of spectrograms and spectrogram correlation analysis to measure repertoire size and syllable sharing among a local group of males. Male repertoire size was 1017 syllable types. Males shared on average 28  15% (SD) syllable types from their repertoires with other males, but a larger proportion of syllable types remained unique to particular males. Extent of repertoire sharing and distance between singing males were not related. Presence of shared and individually unique syllables in the repertoires indicate that imitation, and perhaps improvisation, contribute to development of the song of Clay-colored Thrushes.
23324552|Members of the genus Zosterops are known for their colonizing ability and extensive phenotypic differentiation on numerous islands. There have been morphological and biochemical analyses of some Zosterops populations, but little study has been devoted to patterns of vocal communication signals, known to be important pre-mating barriers in many bird species and in possible diversification of taxa. I report on the song system of one subspecies of Zosterops in a mainland population and an island population 15 km distant. I used both a traditional subjective classification of song elements and the multivariate procedure of linear discriminant analyses (LDA) of measured sound features. The syllables constituting songs exhibited a low level of stereotypy, disallowing a lexicon of syllable 'types' to be constructed for individuals or a population. New syllables were continuously produced as a bird uttered more and more songs, possibly indicating an extremely large repertoire or an open-ended generation of vocal innovations. LDA indicated songs of the island population were moderately differentiated from and less variable than those of the mainland. This type of song system creates a problem for research on vocal signals, whether directed at comparisons between birds in a local area or between populations. I made a preliminary effort to address this problem and discuss my results in the framework of Zosterops and its propensity for evolutionary diversification.
23324553|Geographic relocations of migratory passerines have shown that adults can compensate for physical displacements; juveniles on their first migration, however, use an innate clock-and-compass strategy and are unable to compensate for displacement. We examined the effects of changes in magnetic inclination and intensity on orientation of adult and juvenile Australian Silvereyes (Zosterops l. lateralis) to learn if geomagnetic cues are used by a migratory passerine for geographic positioning. Silvereyes, captured in breeding areas in Tasmania, were physically transported to a location along their migratory route and assessed for orientation during autumn migration. Adults and juveniles exhibited seasonally appropriate, northeasterly orientation (19 and 23 east of magnetic North, respectively) when tested under the natural geomagnetic field. Birds were then exposed to changes in the magnetic field that simulated either southern (SimS) or northern (SimN) locations near the beginning and end, respectively, of their migratory route. Inexperienced juveniles continued to show seasonally appropriate orientation (3 and 358, respectively) in both SimS and SimN magnetic fields. Adults, in contrast, exhibited changes in orientation but only when the experimental magnetic field was consistent with a geographical displacement that should require compensatory orientation (i.e., SimN). Adults exposed to a SimS magnetic field continued to show seasonally-appropriate orientation to the North (0). However, adults exposed to magnetic fields simulating locations beyond their wintering areas (SimN) altered their orientation significantly, orienting bimodally and perpendicular (123303) to their seasonally appropriate migratory direction. These results are consistent with the presence of an age- or experience-dependent magnetic geographic position sense in migratory Australian Silvereyes.
23324554|We used visual observations of banded individuals and satellite telemetry from 2007 to 2011 on Hawai'i Island to document movement patterns of the Hawaiian Goose (Branta sandvicensis), commonly known as Nn. Visual observations of numbered leg bands identified >19% and 10% of 323 geese at one of two breeding sites and one of two distant non-breeding areas during 20072011. We used satellite telemetry to document movement patterns of 10 male Nn from 2009 to 2011, and log-linear models to quantify the magnitude and individual differences in altitudinal migration. Two subpopulations of Nn moved 974.4 m (95% CI  22.0) and 226.4 m (95% CI  40.7) in elevation between seasons on average, from high-elevation shrublands during the non-breeding season of MayAugust, to lower-elevation breeding and molting areas in SeptemberApril. Traditional movement patterns were thought to be lost until recently, but the movement pattern we documented with satellite telemetry was similar to altitudinal migration described by early naturalists in Hawai'i prior to the severe population decline of Nn in the 20th century.
23324555|We studied the ecology and habitat selection of the Magellanic Plover (Pluvianellus socialis) in southern Patagonia during two austral summers. We searched for the presence of this rare species along the shores of 53 privately-owned lakes and portions of Lago Argentino across 12,000 km 2 of steppe habitat in Santa Cruz Province, southern Argentina and compared characteristics of occupied and unoccupied lakes. Aeolian lunette size was a significant predictor of occupancy. Most lakes had only a single pair of breeding birds, although one had 14 pairs. No lake feature successfully predicted number of breeding pairs per lake. Territories were on cobbled beaches on the side of the lake with Aeolian lunettes, and at sites significantly closer to small streams and further from vegetation than random sites. Nest sites within territories had significantly less clay than unused sites. Clutch size was small (12) while hatching success was moderate (70%). Future studies of this species should focus on adult and juvenile survival, and the development of a demographic model that assesses the long-term stability of the population.
23324556|Activities of 29 male Cerulean Warblers (Setophaga cerulea) were quantified on two sites in West Virginia during MayJune 2005. Singing and foraging were the most common of 11 observed behavioral activities (81.6%), while maintenance and mating behaviors were uncommonly observed. Male activity differed among vegetative strata (P = 0.02) with lower- and mid-canopy strata used most often (70% of observations), especially for foraging, perching, and preening. The upper-canopy was used primarily for singing, particularly within core areas of territories and in association with canopy gaps. Foraging occurred more than expected outside of core areas. Males were associated with canopy gaps during 30% of observations, but the distribution of behavioral activities was not significantly related (P = 0.06) to gap presence. Males used 23 different tree species for a variety of activities with oaks (Quercus spp.) used most often on the xeric site and black cherry (Prunus serotina) and black locust (Robinia pseudoacacia) on the mesic site. Tree species used for singing differed between core and non-core areas (P < 0.0001) but distribution of singing and foraging activity did not differ among tree species (P = 0.13). Cerulean Warblers appear to be flexible in use of tree species. Their use of different canopy strata for different behavioral activities provides an explanation for the affinity this species exhibits for a vertically stratified forest canopy.
23324557|We evaluated the influence of microhabitat vegetation cover on Red-crested Cardinal (Paroaria coronata) nest survival in natural forests in central eastern Argentina by monitoring 106 nests for 1,262 exposure days. Daily nest survival rates increased with vegetation cover above the nest and decreased linearly as the breeding season progressed. Increased concealment above the nest helped hide and protect nests from predators (mainly aerial predators). Earlier nesting attempts in the breeding season were more successful than those later in the season. This is the first study to evaluate the effect of microhabitat vegetation cover on daily nest survival rates of a south temperate passerine. We highlight the importance of microhabitat nest concealment on nest success of the Red-crested Cardinal.
23324558|I investigated the relationship between the probability of nest predation and nest-site characteristics: (1) nest height above ground, (2) number of branches attached to a nest, and (3) number of thorny branches around the nest for a population of Bull-headed Shrikes (Lanius bucephalus) breeding in Japan. Thirty-eight nests were located during 2008 and 2009 of which 16 were lost to predation, 14 were successful in fledging young, four were abandoned, two were parasitized, and two may have been partially depredated, although the actual reason is unclear. Neither nest height nor the number of thorny branches was correlated with breeding success. However, the number of branches was negatively correlated with probability of nest predation. The primary predators were believed to be birds, based on physical evidence at depredated nests. A high density of branches around nests of Bull-headed Shrikes may ensure they are not easily discovered and depredated by predators.
23324559|We investigated use of capsaicin, a chemical that evolved as a mammal-directed fruit-consumption deterrent for chili (Capsicum annum) fruits as a nest-predation deterrent. Capsaicin is unpalatable to mammals, but apparently undetectable by birds, and has been used as a selective mammal-repellent in several commercial applications. We placed imitation thrush (Turdus spp.) nests containing model and real eggs in a suburban site near Auckland, New Zealand. The majority of observed predation attempts in our experiments were attributed to introduced rats (Rattus spp.) based on comparisons of tooth-marks on damaged plaster eggs and tooth-marks made with rat skulls. Predation rates on imitation eggs treated with adhesive chili powder were lower than predation rates on eggs in other treatments (W = 201, n = 60, P = 0.05), including non-adhesive chili, adhesive paprika (capsaicin-free chili powder), non-adhesive paprika, and untreated eggs. Successive replicates of the same experimental paradigm in the same site revealed the predation rate on all imitation nests decreased with repeated placement of imitation nests and eggs. These results support the potential value for use of capsaicin-treated nests to deter mammalian predators of natural bird nests.
23324560|The Laughing Gull (Leucophaeus atricilla) was extripated as a breeding bird from New York State by 1900. Recolonization of coastal New York by this colonial waterbird occurred in 1979 with discovery of 15 breeding pairs in Jamaica Bay (Queens County) New York, New York. We conducted a survey of Long Island salt marsh habitats in 2008 to document if other breeding colonies of Laughing Gulls existed. We identified 66 individual possible breeding areas and field surveys were conducted in each area during June 2008. Many areas appeared to provide suitable nesting habitat (i.e., large areas of salt marsh dominated by Spartina), but no evidence of Laughing Gull nesting was found. A better understanding of Laughing Gull populations within the northeast coastal region and the effects of ongoing gull control near New York airports is needed for their conservation.
23324561|We studied the breeding biology of a Southern House Wren (Troglodytes aedon chilensis) population using nest boxes on Chilo Island, southern Chile (41 S) to make latitudinal comparisons at the intraspecific level. There were no significant differences in body size between adult males and females, although wings were significantly longer in males. Clutch size averaged 4.3 eggs per nest, and brood size was 3.9 nestlings. Egg size averaged 17.3 mm in length and 13.2 mm in width. Incubation and nestling periods averaged 16 days each. The Southern House Wren on Chilo Island has a larger clutch size than in the tropics, but a smaller clutch size than populations at the same latitude in the Northern Hemisphere. The Southern House Wren has larger eggs and a longer incubation period but a similar nestling period as House Wrens in the Northern Hemisphere.
23324562|We document the breeding behavior of the Red-bellied Grackle (Hypopyrrhus pyrohypogaster: Icteridae) from monitoring seven breeding groups during 4 consecutive years (20062009) in the central cordillera of the Colombian Andes. All nests were attended by three to seven individuals, representing family groups composed of adult males and females, as well as immatures from previous generations. Clutch size ranged from two to four eggs and was positively correlated with family group size. The incubation period was 1517 days and nestlings left the nest when 1618 days of age. Nestling success was relatively low (0.39), and mortality was caused by predation and harsh environmental events; however, groups attempted to breed after nest failures. The Red-bellied Grackle has a cooperative breeding system and individuals delay dispersal by remaining in natal territories.
23324563|The Yellow-olive Flatbill (Tolmomyias sulphurescens) is a small insectivorous passerine inhabiting Neotropic forests. Its breeding biology is poorly known despite its abundance and conspicuousness. We describe the nesting biology of Yellow-olive Flatbills from Atlantic Forest fragments in Belo Horizonte County, Minas Gerais State, southeastern Brazil. Eighty nests were monitored every 35 days from August to January between 1995 and 2000. Active nests were found from mid-September through late December with a peak from mid October through late November. First clutches were usually laid during the first rains, but prior to the main peak in annual rainfall. The Yellow-olive Flatbill builds closed, pencile nests on tree branches along streams or roads, principally of dark fungal (Marasmius sp.) fibers. Clutch size ranged from two to four white eggs. Incubation was irregular and hatching was asynchronous. Incubation and nestling periods were 20 and 23 days, respectively. Nesting success across all 5 years was 29% (mean among years = 31%, CI = 2537%), and nest predation was the main cause of nest failure (49%). Mayfield estimates of nest survival were low (mean = 26%, CI = 1736%), and the probability of an egg to produce a fledgling was only 10%. Fledging success was 0.8 fledglings per breeding pair, and chicks fledged at 107% (CI = 106108%) of mean adult body mass. Our results do not support the purported pattern of long breeding seasons for tropical birds. The Yellow-olive Flatbill laid unusually large clutches, had lower nest survival, and greater fledgling productivity compared with other tropical passerines.
23324564|We studied species, functional groups, and habitat preferences of birds in five classes of agroforestry systems: agroforests, animal agroforestry, linear agroforestry, sequential agroforestry, and crops under tree cover in Tabasco, Mexico. Sampling sites were >2 km from natural forest fragments. Observations were made at 38 sites using 30-min point and transect counts in the morning and afternoon in the rainy season, season of northern winds, and dry season from June 2008 to May 2009. We observed 3,551 birds, which were assigned to 102 species: 72 were resident and 30 were migratory species. Overall efficiency of sampling was 82.4% and varied from 68.7% in linear agroforestry to 81.5% in animal agroforestry. Total species richness varied from 43 in sequential agroforestry to 64 in animal agroforestry. Species richness and Shannon diversity indices revealed no differences among agroforestry classes. Bird communities in animal agroforestry, linear agroforestry, and sequential agroforestry had similar species compositions, as did agroforests and crops under tree cover. Birds in all agroforestry classes were mainly forest generalists, although specialists of open areas were common, particularly in animal and sequential agroforestry. Only one individual of a forest specialist species was observed during sampling. Migrant species were mostly forest generalists, but some open area specialists occurred in animal agroforestry. Resident birds were distributed over all foraging guilds in all agroforestry classes, whereas migrants were mainly foliage-gleaning insectivores. Foraging guilds had different relative abundances among agroforestry classes. Structural diversity of agroforestry classes did not seem to influence bird species richness. Forest specialist species were virtually absent in agroforestry classes, but the avifauna in agroforestry is diverse and valuable in itself.
23324565|Mixed-species bird flocks are a prevalent characteristic of Andean avian communities. We describe the species composition of mixed-species bird flocks observed in a high mountain zone (3,000 to 3,450 m) of Quindo, central Andes, Colombia. The total number of species observed in mixed-species flocks was 42, and the mean number of species and individuals per flock were 5.1 and 11.5, respectively. Flock species composition was similar along the elevation gradient studied. Our observations suggest that five species (Margarornis squamiger, Iridisornis rufivertex, Conirostrum sitticolor, Mecocerculus stictopterus, and Diglossa cyanea) could be nuclear species in the flocks.
23324566|Monk Parakeets (Myiopsitta monachus) have been in Florida for >40 yrs, having been imported by the thousands for the pet trade. This conspicuous, charismatic species is now widely established, but relatively little is known about its population biology outside South America. We examined 845 parakeets from 385 nests from nest removals and collections by utility company personnel in 2003/2004 and 2006/2007 to document body size and aspects of reproductive biology and primary molt. Body measurements confirm Monk Parakeets in south Florida belong to the monachus subspecies. Adult males averaged 1.5 to 3.5% larger than females, but the body mass of females exceeded that of males during MarchMay, the period of egg development. The breeding season in south Florida commences in late winter/early spring with fledglings first appearing in the second week of June. Nest contents (eggs plus nestlings) averaged 5.6 for multiple-entry nests compared to 4.9 for single-entry nests. Over 94% of the adults we examined were replacing primary feathers during JuneAugust. The extent and timing of breeding and molt in south Florida are virtually identical to those in South America, although offset by 6 months. Monk Parakeets in south Florida retain a fixed annual cycle characteristic of the ancestral population, but their flexible behavior enables them to adapt and thrive in new environments.
23324567|We studied geographic variation in the diet of Western Barn Owls (Tyto alba) along a urban-rural gradient in central-eastern Argentina and identified 5,231 prey items. Mammals were present in all samples, whereas birds and amphibians were present in 79.1 and 50.0% of the samples, respectively. There were significant differences in vertebrate assemblages consumed by Barn Owls at the opposite extremes of the gradient. Native sigmodontine rodents comprised 85.8% of the total prey items, especially towards periurban and rural areas. Exotic murid rodents were the main prey item in urban sites, while birds increased in frequency in urban and periurban areas. Food niche breadth and standardized food niche breadth values were higher at intermediate levels of urbanization (= periurban). This 'periurban peak' in species diversity is a relatively well-known pattern, previously reported for taxa such as birds, lizards, bumblebees, and butterflies among others. The trophic habits of Barn Owls along this gradient were mostly similar to those reported in other studies in southern South America, where the main prey items were native rodents and food niche breadth values (measured at the level of Orders) were low. Western Barn Owls in our study maintained specialization as a micromammal predator.
23324568|'Angel wing' is a developmental wing deformity among birds that can cause flightlessness; it is mostly known from domestic birds, especially waterfowl, and has only rarely been reported among wild bird populations. We estimated that 508 (4.9%) Masked Booby (Sula dactylatra) chicks on Clipperton Island (10 18 N, 109 13 W) in the eastern tropical Pacific Ocean exhibited angel wing during March 2005. Both hatching-year birds and after-hatching-year birds exhibited the condition; the latter included seven flightless birds in adult plumage (i.e., minimum 2 yrs of age) which were still being fed by their presumed parents. The angel wing outbreak coincided in time with high nestling mortality, apparently related to food shortage, and we speculate on causal linkages.
23324569|Aggression between chicks and fledglings, at times ending in siblicide and cannibalism, has been mostly studied among nest mates. It is frequent among colonial-nesting birds and is usually related to competition for limiting resources (e.g., food and space) and competitive disparities between siblings, among other factors. We report three observations of fullygrown Peruvian Pelican (Pelecanus thagus) fledglings attacking unrelated conspecific nestlings at a breeding colony in central Chile. One case ended in cannibalism. Five elements were common in all three cases: (1) nestlings that were attacked were left unattended by their parents in the nest, (2) nestlings that were attacked were newly hatched (up to 5 days of age), (3) aggressors were fully-grown fledglings (6075 days of age), (4) aggressive fledglings always attacked nestlings in groups, and (5) all cases were observed late in the breeding season. We suggest aggression toward and cannibalism of nestlings by fledglings are opportunistic behaviors, based on the opportunity of finding unattended nests and are triggered by food deprivation, although hormonal mechanisms may also be involved. Our observations constitute the first report of aggression and cannibalism by Peruvian Pelican fledglings.
23324570|Infanticide, the killing of dependent offspring, often provides direct or indirect fitness benefits to the perpetrator. Infanticide in socially monogamous systems, like that in many passerine birds, is typically performed by males in an attempt to gain access to potential mates. We observed infanticide by a female Barn Swallow (Hirundo rustica) in North America and, to the best of our knowledge, this is the first documentation of this behavior. A female pecked and threw out nestlings belonging to a neighboring pair of swallows. There were no obvious fitness benefits gained by this female, thus established evolutionary explanations are not applicable. Further investigations into the frequency of female infanticide, easily mistaken for predation, should be pursued to better assess the selective pressures driving this behavior.
23324571|We report the first evidence for intraspecific brood parasitism (IBP) of the open-cup nesting Pale-breasted Thrush (Turdus leucomelas) in southeast Brazil. Four of 15 nests followed from building stage onwards had evidence of IBP (27%), as detected from laying of two eggs in the same day in a nest (n = 2), laying of an additional egg after onset of incubation (n = 1), and egg laying before the end of nest construction (n = 1). Only a few cases of IBP have been reported for neotropical songbirds but it is likely more will be reported as they become better studied. We believe limited territory availability or nest loss during laying were potential causes of IBP in our study population.
23324572|Studies of spatial activity of songbirds during the nesting cycle have largely focused on male activity and neglected female space use, particularly outside the fertile period. We estimated the home-range size of seven female Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis) 3 days after their nestlings had hatched. We used radiotelemetry to track female movements for 2 hrs on the afternoon of day 3 of nestling life, and 2 hrs on both the morning and afternoon of days 4 and 5. Female location and behavior were recorded every 10 min for the duration of tracking. Females exhibited a mean home-range size of 0.833 ha (range = 0.1562.450 ha). Our estimate of home-range size during the nestling period was significantly smaller than a previous estimate of female home-range size during the fertile period in the same junco population. Home-range size varied greatly between individuals, and the observed differences may be attributable to variation in resource availability.
23324573|We used radiotelemetry to monitor movements and cover-type selection by independent fledgling Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapilla) at two managed-forest sites differing in mature-forest matrix: open-understory deciduous forest and dense-understory mixed-deciduous-conifer forest. Ovenbirds at each site made one to three single-day long-distance movements; those movements were of similar distance at the deciduous site (x = 849  159 m) and the mixed-deciduous-conifer site (x = 1,133  228 m). They also moved similar mean daily distances within stands at the deciduous site (x = 101  12 m) and the mixed-deciduous-conifer site (x = 105  11 m), and used areas of similar local vegetation density, but denser than that of their nesting habitat. Fledglings in the deciduous study area selected sapling-dominated clearcuts and forested wetlands over mature forest and shrub-dominated clearcuts. Fledglings in the mixed-deciduous-conifer study area generally used cover types in accordance with availability, and tended not to use shrub-dominated clearcuts. Our results suggest regenerating clearcuts may be important areas for independent fledgling Ovenbirds in landscapes that consist of otherwise contiguous open-understory mature forest, but not until saplings establish in those clearcuts, and not necessarily in forests where dense understory and naturally dense areas such as forested wetlands are common.
23324574|Tufted Titmice (Baeolophus bicolor) and Carolina Chickadees (Poecile carolinensis) often occur together in mixed species flocks during the nonbreeding season and, as nuclear species, often initiate mobbing bouts. We compared the mobbing behavior of Tufted Titmice and Carolina Chickadees and, specifically, their tendency to approach five potential predators. We exposed flocks of chickadees and titmice to study skins of five species of raptors in 2008; raptors were categorized as either low-threat (rarely preying on chickadees or titmice) or high-threat (more likely to prey on chickadees or titmice). We noted the distance of closest approach by titmice and chickadees during trials, and whether a chickadee or titmouse spent more time within 5 m of the raptor. Titmice were more likely to remain within 5 m of both low (P = 0.0008) and high-threat (P = 0.0015) raptors. Titmice approached low-threat raptors closer than chickadees (P = 0.014). There was no difference in the mean distance of closest approach by chickadees and titmice during high-threat trials (P = 0.34). Titmice generally approached and remained closer to raptors during mobbing bouts than chickadees, possibly because larger titmice (~ 21 g) are more likely targets of aerial predators than smaller chickadees (~ 11 g). Titmice may be willing to take greater risks because the potential benefits (reduced risk of predation) are greater if mobbing causes potential predators to leave an area.
23324575|Effects of suburban development (sprawl), concurrent climate and increasing avian food on a population of Eastern Screech-Owls (Megascops asio) were studied for three decades using nest boxes and natural tree-cavity nests in residential yards and adjoining natural forest in central Texas. The suburban climate was warmer by 5.7 C associated with suburbia's heat-island effect by the last decade of study. Nesting started earlier by an average of 4.5 days annually and fledgling productivity increased by 31.4%. Avian prey increased and contributed to 93% successful annual nests in a more stable population. Bird feeders and bird baths were likely enhancing factors at residences, where owls obtained prey and used bird-bath water for drinking and bathing.
23324576|The Austral Pygmy Owl (Glaucidium nana) is usually recorded as actively calling and foraging during daylight. We studied the diurnal activity of the Austral Pygmy Owl over 1 year in Cerro ielol Natural Monument in southern Chile totaling 339 hrs of observation. The most intense activity was recorded at mid-morning between 0900 to 1200 hrs when conspicuous perching and foraging attempts were observed. Vocalizations showed a pattern associated with the reproductive season. The contact pair call was most used throughout the year (54%), slightly more than the territorial call (46%).
23324577|I conducted the second austral autumn raptor count at Concepcin Watch Site in the eastern Bolivian lowlands to document species composition, timing, and abundance of migrating raptors between 10 March and 6 April 2009. I counted migrants for 26 days (134.5 hrs) recording 6,979 migrating raptors of 16 species. Mississippi Kites (Ictinia mississippiensis) comprised 80% (n = 5,571), Black Vultures 11% (Coragyps atratus, n = 747), and Snail Kites 5% (Rostrhamus sociabilis, n = 396). The remaining 4% (n = 265) included 13 species and other unidentified raptors. I also recorded non-raptor species on migration from the lookout, including 36 Maguari Storks (Ciconia maguari), a flock of 11 Anhinga (Anhinga anhinga), and thousands of Barn Swallows (Hirunda rustica). My observations confirm previous records suggesting a significant raptor migration occurs at the Concepcin Watch Site in the austral autumn. Raptor monitoring should continue at Concepcin annually and the site used to promote raptor conservation and awareness in Bolivia.
23324578|We report the first cases of simultaneous double brooding known for Calliope Hummingbird (Stellula calliope) and Rufous Hummingbird (Selasphorus rufus) from observations of two females in Montana. Each female laid two eggs and started incubating while feeding large young in a nearby nest, and each successfully fledged young from both nesting attempts. Simultaneous multiple nests have been documented for five other hummingbird species that breed north of Mexico, suggesting the behavior is widespread in the family outside the tropics. Factors that might allow rapid renesting in temperate species include young that begin to feed themselves within a week after fledging, and longer day length that allows more time for females to forage than would be available in the tropics.
23324514|The extinct drepanidine genus Ciridops is known from five historically taken specimens of Ciridops anna from the island of Hawaii, the last in 1892, and from fossil populations on Molokai, Oahu, and Kauai. The origins of the historical specimens and the taxonomic history of the genus are reviewed. The plumages of C. anna are interpreted as highly sexually dimorphic (red males vs. greenish females); the juvenile plumage of males included brownish feathers that appear to have been retained and mixed with the incoming definitive plumage. The thigh musculature and pelvic and hindlimb osteology show that the strong legs and feet of Ciridops were probably used to move plant debris in search of insects. The closest living analog may be the Yellowhead (Mohoua ochrocephala) of New Zealand. Analysis of stomach contents of the single fluid-preserved specimen of C. anna disclosed remains of insects that are widely distributed in Hawaiian forest ecosystems. The traditionally claimed association of Ciridops anna with palms of the genus Pritchardia suggests that Ciridops may have fed in the accumulated debris in the axils of palm leaves. The patchy distribution of fossils of Ciridops may result from the birds being associated with nearly pure stands of Pritchardia that were in turn patchily distributed. Vulnerability of Pritchardia to introduced seed predators, including rats and humans, and to destruction of lowland habitats by cutting and burning, may have caused the prehistoric extinction of Ciridops on all islands except Hawaii.
23324515|The endemic solitaire, 'ma'o (Myadestes obscurus), is common in windward forests of Hawai'i Island, but has been historically extirpated from leeward forests. The last detections of 'ma'o on the leeward side of the island were in woodland habitat on the western flank of Mauna Loa in 1978. 'ma'o were detected in woodland habitat in relatively low densities during a 2010 forest bird survey of Hawai'i Volcanoes National Park. The source of the population is unknown. It is probable they originated from a documented but unsurveyed population of 'ma'o in scrub alpine lava. Alternatively, the birds may have persisted undetected for nearly 35 years, or expanded from windward mesic forests on southeast Mauna Loa. There is no evidence 'ma'o recolonized the wet mesic forests of leeward Mauna Loa. The 'ma'o can occupy diverse native habitats compared to other species in the Hawai'i Myadestes genus, of which most species are now extinct. The connectivity of each population is not understood but we assume there are significant geographic, physiological, and behavioral barriers for scrub alpine and wet mesic forest populations. The expansion of 'ma'o to leeward woodlands is encouraging as the species is Hawai'i Island's last native frugivore capable of dispersing small and medium sized seeds of rare angiosperms, and could have an important role in re-establishing ecosystem function.
23324516|We documented unusual variation in the sequence of primary replacement during the prebasic molt of Rufous Fantails (Rhipidura rufifrons) captured in 2009 and 2010 on Saipan, Northern Marianas Islands. Most captures (62%) followed a typical replacement sequence, starting at the proximal primary (P 1) and proceeding distally to the outermost primary (P 10), but some individuals (38%) commenced molt from medial feathers, either P 2, P 3, or P 4 with replacement proceeding bidirectionally from the point of origin in multiple molt series. The distribution of centers for medial origin was P 2 (3%), P 3 (77%), P 3 and/or P 4 (12%), and P 4 (8%), indicating this pattern was distinct from the typical (P 1) pattern and the commencement point was not fixed to a specific primary. Females and individuals undergoing the second prebasic molt were more likely to have a center among primaries 24 than males and older birds. Two females that showed a center at P 1 during molt in 2009 showed a center at P 3 or P 4 during molt in 2010 represented exceptions to this finding but also indicated the starting point could vary inter-annually in an individual. Multiple molt series among primaries are poorly documented in passerines and we provide the first evidence for this molting strategy in the Rhipiduridae. Our results suggest a molt center among primaries 24 in younger and female Rufous Fantails may have evolved to enable more-rapid replacement of primaries while maintaining better foraging ability among selectively disadvantaged individuals.
23324517|The winter distribution of neotropical seedeaters (Sporophila spp.) known as capuchinos is poorly known. There are difficulties to understanding their migration patterns: fieldwork is lacking in their wintering areas, their 'eclipse' plumages often make it difficult to identify species, different species share habitats during winter, and there is little or no genetic differentiation of several forms. Vocalizations display a geographic signature (i.e., diagnostic acoustic features that are found in a limited area during the breeding period) and can be useful as indicators of a specific geographic origin of a wintering bird. I present data that: (1) demonstrates that non-breeding male Dark-throated Seedeater (S. ruficollis), Rufous-rumped Seedeater (S. hypochroma), and Tawny-bellied Seedeater (S. hypoxantha) in wintering areas can be assigned to a particular distant breeding population based on vocalizations; (2) evaluate the potential contribution of vocal variation in other capuchinos to understand their migratory movements; and (3) use vocalizations to unravel migration patterns of capuchinos. Non-breeding males of S. ruficollis from the Entre Rios regiolect were recorded in Cerrado habitat close to Vila Bela da Santssima Trindade, Brazil and in the Beni savannas close to Trinidad, Bolivia, S. hypochroma from the Corrientes regiolect was recorded close to Vila Bela da Santssima Trindade, and S. hypoxantha from the Entre Ros regiolect was recorded close to Trinidad. Linking breeding and non-breeding areas through song-types is important to understand the evolutionary ecology and to promote conservation of these tiny long-distance flyers.
23324518|We placed light-level geolocators on 17 Rusty Blackbirds (Euphagus carolinus) in 2009 to track their migrations from nest sites near Anchorage, Alaska to wintering areas and back. We recaptured three of these birds in 2010 and found they departed breeding areas during the first half of September, spent 7284 days migrating to overwintering areas, but only 1630 days on their northward migration to Alaska. Birds took similar Central Flyway routes on southward and northward migrations, which were not previously described for this species. The birds used a series of stopover sites across the prairie region from southern Saskatchewan to Iowa over a 4 to 5 week period on their southward migration to wintering areas that spanned from South Dakota to northern Louisiana. We found upon recapture in 2010, the geolocator attachment harnesses had abraded the surrounding feathers on all three birds. This coupled with the low return rate (18%) for instrumented birds indicates a better harness method must be developed before this technology is more widely used on Rusty Blackbirds.
23324519|We equipped five Black-necked Cranes (Grus nigricollis) with satellite transmitters between February and November 2009 to investigate their migration routes between breeding areas and wintering area at Napahai Marsh (3,260 m asl), China. We identified the Shaluli Mountain region (southwest Sichuan), including Daocheng, Litang, Baiyu, and Xinlong counties as a new breeding area with a mean elevation of 4,330 m asl. Four of five tracked cranes spent the summer in Daocheng County. The fifth crane was there briefly and then moved north to Baiyu and Xinlong counties. The distance between Napahai Marsh and Daocheng County (180 km) is one of the shortest migration routes among crane species, but covered an elevation increase of 1,200 m. The migration route of the fifth crane was 400 km in length and occurred over 2 or 5 days in spring 2009 and 2010, respectively, and 19 days in fall 2009 with five stopovers.
23324520|Population composition of Aechmophorus grebes was investigated in Utah and the occurrence of possible intermediates between Western (Aechmophorus occidentalis) and Clark's (A. clarkii) grebes was assessed. Individuals with clearly intermediate traits represented an aggregated 6.5% (43 individuals) in the populations investigated while another 7.6% (46 individuals) did not entirely conform to the description of Aechmophorus grebes provided by Storer and Nuechterlein. The number of intermediates has increased in Utah in comparison to historical data. A similar survey in California and Oregon in 2009 also found increased percentages of intermediates. The results a priori contradict growing reinforcement of incompatibilities between both Aechmophorus grebes. Western and Clark's grebes in these major areas of sympatry appear to interbreed as frequently as in areas of relative allopatry. No evidence against assortative mating was found. Hybridization for Aechmophorus grebes may reflect adaptive mate choice rather than a mistake. Introgressive hybridization may be important and mask real rates of hybridization.
23324521|We examined support for the hypothesis that abundance of Cerulean Warblers (Setophaga cerulea) increases with percentage of bottomland and upland forest, and decreases with percentage of developed land at a local-habitat scale (within a 250-m buffer) and increases with percentage of all forest at a landscape scale (within a 10-km buffer). We conducted surveys along 16 rivers in Missouri and Arkansas from 1999 to 2006 and related habitat and landscape factors to counts of Cerulean Warblers in 123 5-km segments on these rivers. We detected 576 singing male Cerulean Warblers and found support for both local and landscape effects on Cerulean Warbler abundance. Model fit was good with an average correlation of 0.841 between predicted and observed values based on an eight-fold cross-validation procedure. The abundance of Cerulean Warblers increased 390.7, 8.7, and 4.1 times across the observed range of forest within 10 km, bottomland forest within 250 m, and upland forest within 250 m, respectively. Conservation and research need to address large-scale forest patterns in addition to local habitat for Cerulean Warblers. Further research is needed on abundance patterns across riparian and upland forests and demographic rates in this part of their range.
23324522|We studied the nesting ecology of Swainson's Warblers (Limnothylpis swainsonii) in Britton's Neck, South Carolina, USA and found 144 nests of which 78 were active. Nest initiations followed a bimodal distribution. Clutches averaged ( SE) 3.19  0.20 eggs and 2.50  0.33 fledglings per nest. The Mayfield nest success estimate for a 23-day cycle was 50%. Logistic exposure models indicate nest success to be most impacted by Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) nest parasitism, nest age, and distance to the nearest swamp. Unparasitized nests that were younger in age and further from a swamp had the highest daily survival rates. Ten percent of nests were parasitized by Brown-headed Cowbirds with a 26% reduction in Swainson's Warbler hatching and an 89% reduction in fledgling production. Multiple brooding was observed in 21% of 2000 and 2001 Swainson's Warbler nests. Vines, such as greenbrier (Smilax spp.), were the most common substrate used for nesting, although two-thirds of the nests contained cane (Arundinaria tecta and A. gigantea) within a 5-m radius.
23324523|We installed nest boxes for Thorn-tailed Rayaditos (Aphrastrura spinicauda) and monitored their use in a Monterrey pine (Pinus radiata) plantation in the Maule Region, southcentral Chile. Thirty-four breeding pairs built nests in boxes, of which 75% began laying eggs. Nest establishment began in early September and construction lasted 12.8  4.9 days (n = 23). Rayaditos used mainly pine needles, together with mosses, epiphytes, herbs, and animal hair in their nests. Clutch size ranged from two to four eggs (mode = 3) that were incubated for 15.8  1.2 days. Brood size negatively affected mass of nestlings, but was positively related to mass of the parents. Adults had higher body mass and built larger nests than those reported previously for the species on Chilo Island, where broods are larger and the incubation period is shorter. The provision of artificial cavities allowed Thorn-tailed Rayaditos to nest in the pine plantation. Nest boxes combined with other management tools, such as maintaining snags and understory enhancement, may be important factors in mitigation of negative effects of pine plantations on secondary cavity-nesting birds.
23324524|We report the first description of the nest, eggs, and nesting phenology of the Cozumel Vireo (Vireo bairdi), a passerine species endemic to Isla Cozumel, Mxico. We discovered three nests of this species in 2009. These open-cup nests were woven onto branches and hung beneath forks. Clutch size was 23 eggs, and eggs were ovate and had a white ground color with reddish-brown flecks. These characteristics of nests and eggs are similar to those of most other Vireo spp., including other West Indian members of the Vireo subgenus. Breeding activities, including egg-laying, incubation, and nestling and post-fledging provisioning occurred from May to July 2009. We estimated the length of incubation to be 14 days and length of the nestling stage to be 1112 days. Much of the Cozumel Vireo's breeding biology remains unknown and further study of this single-island endemic is needed.
23324525|Twelve Black-capped Chickadees (Poecile atricapillus) were captured and presented with a stuffed Eastern Screech-Owl (Megascops asio) model in areas containing and historically lacking persistent screech-owl populations (n = 4 and 8 chickadees, respectively) to assess whether 'chick-a-dee' calls have a site-specific structure for this dangerous, regionally sympatric predator. These learned vocal signals are used in various circumstances and one context is to denote information about predator threat level with numerous short and frequent D notes designating high threat. Average number of D notes per call was 4.4 where chickadees co-occurred with screech-owls but, in areas lacking them, the average was 2.3. Duration of the first D note and time between D notes were, respectively, 36% and 44% longer in areas without screech-owls. Diminution of predator recognition remains plausible but we present evidence that suggests chickadees elicit a threat-inappropriate call structure in areas lacking screech-owls because they have not learned the vocal repertoire for this predator and that nuances in 'chick-a-dee' calls convey predator-specific identity.
23324526|The Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) is a top predator of upland ecosystems in the Greater Antilles. Little information exists on the ecology of the insular forms of this widely distributed species. We studied movements and resource use of the Red-tailed Hawk from 2000 to 2002 in the montane forests of northeastern Puerto Rico. We captured 32 and used 21 radio-marked Red-tailed Hawks to delineate home range, core area shifts, and macrohabitat use in the Luquillo Mountains. Red-tailed Hawks in the Luquillo Mountains frequently perched near the top of canopy emergent trees and were characterized by wide-ranging capabilities and extensive spatial overlap. Home range size averaged 5,022.6  832.1 ha (30511,288 ha) and core areas averaged 564.8  90.7 ha (1501,230 ha). This species had large mean weekly movements (3,286.2  348.5 m) and a preference for roadside habitats. Our findings suggest fragmentation of contiguous forest outside protected areas in Puerto Rico may benefit the Red-tailed Hawk.
23324527|We observed an active nest of the Grey-bellied Hawk (Accipiter poliogaster) in the mixed rainforest of southern Brazil during the 2011 breeding season. The nest was a platform built in the branches of the upper part of a Paran pine (Araucaria angustifolia). The clutch size was two eggs, but only a single nestling survived and left the nest, 49 days post-hatching. The fledgling was fed by adults at the nest for at least 90 days post-hatching. Only the adult female incubated the eggs and brooded the nestlings. Both female and male provided nest defense, the former up to 50 m from the nest and the latter at 50 to 200 m. Only the male hunted and only the female fed the nestlings. The identified prey brought to the nest by the male included eight birds and one young armadillo. Five voice types were identified: one alarm call, three food-related calls (performed by adults), and one food-begging call (performed by the fledgling). The type of habitat where the nest occurred suggested this poorly known species can possibly survive in disturbed areas. It seems to be naturally rare and its' shy behavior contributes to its low detection.
23324528|We used collection of prey remains, direct observations of hawks with prey, and video cameras at two nests to assess frequency of occurrence and biomass of prey species taken by breeding Cooper's Hawks (Accipiter cooperii) in Victoria, British Columbia, Canada during 19952010. Small ( 27 g) to medium-size (2891 g) bird species contributed the majority (7994%) of prey recorded from collection of 3,231 prey remains, 437 direct observations, and 783 video items at 87 nest sites. Avian prey contributed over half of prey biomass recorded in direct observations and video data (67% and 93%, respectively). One native and two introduced species provided most (> 85%) prey recorded in all samples in which birds were identified to species: American Robin (Turdus migratorius), European Starling (Sturnus vulgaris), and House Sparrow (Passer domesticus). Introduced species were an important component of the diet, contributing over half of items identified in all samples. There was a temporal shift in age of prey used: the early-season diet (MarApr) was comprised of adult birds and subadult mammals, while avian young of the year dominated the diet from late May until the end of the breeding season (70100% of identifiable items). Mammals were inconsequential in terms of frequency and biomass except at nests (6 of 87) on or near the University of Victoria campus where nearly all European rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) prey was recorded.
23324529|We examined nestling Red-shouldered Hawks (Buteo lineatus) in 56 nests (147 nestlings) in suburban southwestern Ohio and in 25 nests (67 nestlings) in rural forested Hocking Hills in southcentral Ohio, 80 km east of southwestern Ohio. Fifteen of 25 nests in Hocking Hills had Protocalliphora avium larvae on one or more nestlings and/or pupae in the nest material. Nineteen nestlings had larvae in one or both ears, an additional 14 had evidence of larvae outside the ears, 32 were not visibly parasitized, and two were not examined or their status was not reported; in contrast, no nests and no nestlings were parasitized in southwestern Ohio. Reproductive rate (young fledged/nest) did not differ between southwestern Ohio and Hocking Hills (2.4  0.1 young/nest at southwestern Ohio vs. 2.7  0.2 at Hocking Hills; P = 0.214). Parasitized nests at Hocking Hills were no more likely to have been used in the previous breeding season than non-parasitized nests ( 2 = 0.903, P = 0.342, n = 22). Similarly, number of young fledged/nest at parasitized nests did not differ from that at non-parasitized nests within Hocking Hills (U = 75.0, P = 1.00, n = 25; mean ( SE) number of young = 2.7  0.3 vs. 2.7  0.3 at parasitized and non-parasitized nests, respectively). The Protocalliphora loads we observed did not appear to have a negative effect on the fledging rate of nestling Red-shouldered Hawks; however, we did not assess any other potential effects of parasitism.
23324530|Hematocrit, the percentage of packed red blood cells in blood, has been used as a measure of avian condition. We investigated the relationship between hematocrit and condition in a wild, breeding population of adult European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris), and their nestlings (at 5- and 11-days post hatch). Hematocrit was not correlated with condition in adults or nestlings at either 5- or 11-days post-hatch. Adult males and females had similar hematocrit values. Hematocrit increased with age; adults had significantly higher hematocrit than both 5- and 11-day old nestlings, and 11-day old nestlings had significantly higher hematocrit than when they were 5 days of age. Hematocrit was not correlated with sampling date, ambient temperature, or relative humidity level, but was positively correlated with sampling time in the day for nestlings (but not adults). Our findings caution against using hematocrit as a measure of condition in birds.
23324531|Relocation by dependent young is a survival strategy that occurs among a wide range of taxa. The Common Nighthawk (Chordeiles minor) lays its eggs on bare substrate and, once hatched, nestlings may relocate to new sites daily. We located and monitored eight Common Nighthawk nests in Grand Teton National Park, Wyoming, quantified inter-use-site distances in relation to nestling age, and calculated a nestling growth rate curve. Common Nighthawk nestlings grow in a nearly linear fashion. Nestlings moved up to 48 m in a single day and larger, older nestlings tended to move greater distances between daily use-sites.
23324532|The ecological nesting requirements of Northern Black Swifts (Cypseloides niger borealis) have been well documented, but little information exists regarding the microclimate at Black Swift nests. We placed 42 data loggers at 10 occupied Black Swift colonies between 2006 and 2010 to measure and record temperature and relative humidity, resulting in 19,181 usable records. Median temperature and relative humidity at nine Colorado and New Mexico sites were 9.4 C and 89.7%, respectively, and at one California site were 13.4 C and 92.8%, respectively. Values were quite stable throughout the breeding season with slight changes reflecting the ambient temperature and humidity of the surrounding macroclimate. These baseline data may prove useful for conservation of this species, especially if predicted global climate changes occur.
23324533|Previous Chimney Swift (Chaetura pelagica) trapping efforts relied on chimney-top box traps at large roost sites, which were disruptive and inefficient when targeting individual birds. I designed a hoop net for use at nest chimneys to trap individual breeding birds. I caught 13 swifts at 11 different sites in Guelph, Ontario, Canada over two summers with no site abandonment. This trap is superior for trapping individuals because it: (1) can be deployed quickly without scaling the chimney, (2) will work on chimneys of different sizes and shapes, and (3) minimizes disturbance to birds. My results indicate this net is an efficient, safe, and relatively simple method of trapping individual Chimney Swifts at their nest chimneys.
23324534|Inter- and intra-specific competition are known to influence feeding decisions, but relatively little research has investigated how inter- and intra-sexual interactions can impact foraging. We studied foraging preferences of male and female Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis) during winter and found they preferred sunflower seed to safflower seed when presented with paired feeders in the absence of conspecifics. Male cardinals avoided feeders occupied by other males and approached feeders occupied by females, regardless of feeder contents. Female cardinals avoided other females and especially males when choosing feeders. These changes in foraging behavior by male and female cardinals as a result of conspecific presence indicate inter- and intra-sexual interactions alter the attractiveness of a high or low energy food source.
23324535|We report observations of Thick-billed Euphonias (Euphonia laniirostris) and a Golden-faced Tyrannulet (Zimmerius chrysops) kleptoparasitizing nest material from Red-faced Spinetail (Cranioleuca erythrops) nests in Antioquia, Colombia. Thick-billed Euphonias (12  1 m, n = 11 encounters) and Golden-faced Tyrannulets (10  1 m, n = 19) at our study site typically foraged at similar heights as the Red-faced Spinetail nests they parasitized (9 m for both nests), consistent with the idea that a kleptoparasite might steal material from nests in its home stratum to avoid predation risk associated with descending to the ground in search of nest material. We encourage ornithologists to continue reporting instances of nest material kleptoparasitism so its prevalence in birds can be rigorously assessed.
23324536|The Tody Motmot (Hylomanes momotula) has a fragmented range throughout Central America. I present evidence from audio recordings for a new location for this species in Costa Rica. Individuals detected likely represent a previously undiscovered population in the foothills of the Caribbean Slope of the Tilarn Mountains. A small population of Tody Motmots could easily be overlooked in foothill forests drained by the Jamaical, San Lorencito, and San Lorenzo rivers, which are exclusively on private land.
23324537|Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) usually hunt from a perch and swoop down on prey. I observed a novel foraging strategy in which the bird deliberately, and successfully, attacked and deconstructed nests of squirrels to flush or capture prey in an urban environment.
23324538|We examined differences in microhabitat use between Boreal (Poecile hudsonicus) and Black-capped chickadees (P. atricapillus) where they co-occur near Marquette, Michigan, USA. Twenty-four Boreal and 37 Black-capped chickadees were followed during 60 hrs of field observation. Boreal Chickadees foraged only in three conifer species, 76% of which were black spruce (Picea mariana), while Black-capped Chickadees foraged widely across six coniferous and three deciduous tree species. Analysis of foraging data categorized by zones within conifer trees indicated high niche overlap (0.676) between Boreal and Black-capped chickadees across all foraging zones. Individual comparisons on a zone-by-zone basis revealed a significant difference in foraging occupancy in the medial portion of the crowns of conifer trees (P = 0.0002). Our results indicate exclusive use by Boreal Chickadees of dense medial foliage within the top 3 m of conifer crowns.
41932830|Why vocal learning has evolved in songbirds, parrots, and hummingbirds but not in other avian groups remains an unanswered question. The difficulty in providing an answer stems not only from the challenge of reconstructing the conditions that favored vocal learning among ancestors of these groups but also from our incomplete knowledge of extant birds. Here we provide multiple lines of evidence for a previously undocumented, evolutionarily independent origin of vocal learning among the suboscine passerines. Working with bellbirds (Procnias spp.), we show that (1) a captivereared Bare-throated Bellbird (P. nudicollis) deprived of conspecific song not only developed abnormal conspecific songs but also learned the calls of a Chopi Blackbird (Gnorimopsar chopi) near which it was housed; (2) songs of Three-wattled Bellbirds (P. tricarunculata) occur in three geographically distinct dialects (from north to south: Nicaragua, Monteverde, and Talamanca); (3) Three-wattled Bellbirds at Monteverde, Costa Rica, are often bilingual, having learned the complete song repertoire of both the Monteverde and Talamanca dialects; (4) immature bellbirds have an extended period of song development, lasting the 6 years in which they are in subadult plumage; and (5) adult male Three-wattled Bellbirds continually relearn their songs, visiting each others' song perches and adjusting their songs to track population-wide changes. Perhaps female preferences and strong sexual selection have favored vocal learning among bellbirds, and additional surveys for vocal learning among other lekking cotingas and other suboscines may reveal patterns that help determine the conditions that promote the evolution of vocal learning.
41932831|Although there is a large body of literature dealing with the nature of geographic variation in the songs of birds, few studies have examined such variation across the entire range of species of suboscine birds. We measured time and frequency characteristics of songs of Alder Flycatchers (Empidonax alnorum) from six regions spanning almost the entire range of the species, from Alaska to Maine. Both univariate and multivariate analyses demonstrated significant differences in song characteristics among regions, and discriminant function analysis classified 69% of songs to the correct region. We found no relationship between geographic separation and magnitude of difference in songs among regionssongs of birds from some widely-separated regions were more similar than they were to songs of birds from neighboring regions. We argue that these regional differences have a genetic basis, but the pattern of variation does not appear to be consistent with a simple "isolation by distance" model. The variation may reflect differing adaptation to optimize acoustic transmission in varying habitats across the range. However, more detailed studies, including examination of genetic variation among populations, are required to test such suggestions rigorously.
41932832|We studied patterns of geographic variation in the fine structural characteristics of the songs of five recognized subspecies of Common Bush Tanagers (Chlorospingus ophthalmicus) in Mesoamerica to examine whether songs vary with geography. Multivariate analyses (PCA and DFA), based on 11 fine structural characteristics of the songs provided similar results indicating that both albifrons and regionalis had unique songs significantly different from the rest of the subspecies. Conversely, ophthalmicus, dwighti, and postocularis had similar song characteristics, regardless of restricted gene flow and substantial morphological variation reported in previous studies. Our findings suggest there is a possible relationship between the length of isolation and variation in songs of albifrons and regionalis, whereas the lack of divergence in songs of ophthalmicus, dwighti, and postocularis suggests some of these forms have not diverged vocally, and vocal traits may be evolutionary conserved.
41932833|We collected behavioral observations and recordings of adult Eurasian Stone-curlews (Burhinus oedicnemus) in central and northern Italy, and of chicks in northern Italy. Eurasian Stone-curlews are highly vocal during spring and summer, and vocalize routinely, but less frequently, during fall and winter nights. Adult Eurasian Stone-curlews have a complex and relatively wide vocal repertoire composed of at least 11 different call types and some subtypes. Two of these calls (Kurlee and Gallop) are the most used and important; the Kurlee call is uttered year-round, while Gallop is uttered usually during the breeding season with a peak in spring. Adult vocalizations are structurally diverse; call syllable duration spans from < 0.1 to > 1.1 sec and average center frequency is between 2,190 to 3,037 Hz. The highest frequency is associated with a high intensity alarm call; some adult vocalizations can be compared to the loud rhythmically repeated calls which often occur in several species of Charadrii and Scolopaci. Five call types are used in well-defined circumstances suggesting specialized functions; the remaining calls are used mostly in combination with other call types, particularly Kurlee and Gallop calls. There are preferred and typical call combinations, which cannot be explained as random choices. We identified two main call types for chicks, which are completely different from adult calls and are developed before hatching. Juveniles up to 70 days of age utter these calls without major changes. We discuss preliminary data on vocal ontogenesis, as well as correspondences and differences between our findings and the existing literature on the adult repertoire.
41932834|We investigated the impacts of an unpaved road on the distribution, reproduction, and stress physiology of Mountain White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha) in a high-elevation subalpine ecosystem. We found and monitored 152 sparrow nests over 3 years and captured 123 sparrows over 2 years for standardized stress series experiments. Distance of a nest to the road was associated with reproductive success, and low success near the road was primarily because of high rates of nest desertion. The probability of a nest succeeding rose with increasing distance from road up to 40 m, but nests beyond 40 m experienced lower nest success, possibly because of increased predation. Nests at intermediate distance were approximately twice as likely to succeed (70% survival rate) as those near (36% survival) or far (37% survival) from the road. Stress response of male sparrows subjected to a standardized field stress protocol was elevated within 20 m of the road (38.34  5.76 ng/ml) compared to those at greater distances (23.89  2.01 ng/ml). Our study is the first to document the association between the distance to a road and blood corticosterone levels in any bird species. The results present strong evidence of impacts of a road on nest success of a migratory songbird. This relatively low-traffic, low-speed road clearly presents problems, even for a bird species not thought to be sensitive to disturbance.
41932835|We conducted 3,050 point counts from 2005-2009 (May-Jul) in 82 wetlands in three Canadian provinces (Ontario, Qubec, and Manitoba) to quantify colonization and extinction dynamics of Least Bittern (Ixobrychus exilis) populations to detect geographic variations across provinces and to analyze effects of weather conditions, date, and survey methodology that may affect detection probability of Least Bitterns. Least Bitterns were detected at 773 (25%) of the 3,050 point counts with birds detected in 25, 26, and 28% of all point counts in Ontario, Qubec, and Manitoba, respectively. Occupancy probability in the first year of the study was lower in Qubec sites (0.26) compared to Manitoba sites (0.53). However, Qubec sites had higher probabilities of colonization (0.67) than Ontario (0.32) and Manitoba (0.27). Probabilities of extinction did not differ across provinces but varied across years. Detection probability did not vary with weather variables (cloud cover, wind speed, air temperature-linear or quadratic effect) but decreased from mid-May (0.19) to mid-July (0.09). Detection probability was lower (0.13) for the first passive listening period than the call-broadcast period (0.28) and the second passive listening period (0.33). Observed differences in extinction and colonization probability between provinces and years show that occupancy dynamics vary both temporally and geographically, stressing the need to continue long-term monitoring of Least Bittern populations across the breeding range to detect geographic variation and changes in occupancy. We recommend Least Bittern surveys begin in mid-May at higher latitudes and use a second passive listening period following the call-broadcast period to increase detection of the species.
41932836|Nearctic-neotropical passerines may spend up to one-third of the year in migration. Stopover sites have a critical role in providing migrant passerines with areas to rest and replenish fat stores. We characterized the stopover ecology of the Tennessee Warbler (Oreothlypis peregrina) at an inland site in Vicksburg, Michigan, using data from 4,607 warblers captured between 1990 and 2007. The recapture rate ranged from 1.6 to 12.1% annually and recaptured migrants averaged small but significant mass gains. Estimates of mass change using regression of mass on time of capture also suggested mass increases at this site. Recapture rate and mass gain estimated by regression varied significantly across the 18 years of study, although stopover length and mass change among recaptured individuals did not. Adult (after hatching year, AHY) warblers in active flight feather molt had an average lower mass and were four times more likely to be recaptured than non-molting adults. Over 95% of birds captured were hatching year (HY). The average condition and mass gains estimated by regression of HY warblers were lower than that of AHYs, but recapture rate, stopover length, and mass gains by recaptured individuals did not differ between the two age groups. The high number of captures and mass gains demonstrate the value of this site for fall migrant Tennessee Warblers. The annual differences in recapture rate and mass gains reported in this study suggest that several years of data may be needed to develop an accurate assessment of the typical use of a stopover site by migrants.
41932837|We quantified changes in long-term Snowy Plover (Charadrius nivosus) survey counts and return rates, estimated current sex and age-specific apparent survival and encounter rates, and calculated recruitment thresholds needed to maintain a stable population in the Southern High Plains of Texas. Mean survey counts of adult Snowy Plovers decreased by 78% at one saline lake (from 80 adults/survey to 18 adults/survey) from 1999-2000 to 2008-2010 but remained consistent at an alternate lake (from 45 adults/survey to 41 adults/survey). Adult and juvenile return rates have similarly declined within this time frame by 25 and 62%, respectively. Long-term declines in return rates may be the result of increased mortality from declining habitat conditions either within or outside the breeding season. Current estimates of adult (65%) and juvenile (12%) apparent survival are lower than most other estimates for Snowy Plovers throughout their range. Current estimates of adult and juvenile apparent survival and return rates indicate 5.8-10.0 hatchlings per adult per year are needed to maintain the current population without immigration, a 3-5 fold increase in the past 10 years.
41932838|Baltimore Orioles (Icterus galbula) of unusual redness over large sections of their plumages were recently discovered in southeastern Canada. Reddish feathers from six of nine specimens sampled at the McGill Bird Observatory in Ste-Anne-de-Bellevue, Montreal, Quebec in fall 2006 contained rhodoxanthin, a keto-carotenoid of deep red hue usually found in plants. Rhodoxanthin comprised ~5% of carotenoids in many oriole feathers, and up to 18% in the reddest one. Redness in oriole feathers with rhodoxanthin correlated with amounts of that pigment, rather than with amounts of red 4-keto-carotenoids like canthaxanthin normally present in orange oriole feathers. Redness in feathers with rhodoxanthin also tended to be greatest in feathers with the least amounts of carotenoids. The anomalous rhodoxanthin altered the normal relationship between redness and 4-keto-carotenoid concentration, and total feather carotenoid concentration in Baltimore Orioles. We believe rhodoxanthin and the associated aberrant reddish tones result from consumption of berries of exotic bush honeysuckles (Lonicera spp.), now widely propagated in eastern North America and the Midwestern United States. We confirm the presence of rhodoxanthin in the berries of Tatarian honeysuckle (L. tatarica). Rhodoxanthin produces a shoulder at ~520 nm of the reflectance spectrum of feathers in which it occurs.
41932839|We evaluated whether fruit selection by autumn-migrating birds at an important stopover site in southern New England was related to water-soluble antioxidant content of fruits. We measured total anthocyanins, total phenolics, and total antioxidant capacity in fruits from common native and non-native plant species and related this to estimates of fruit selection by free-living birds. Birds selected certain fruits over others, with arrowwood (Viburnum recognitum, V. dentatum) consumed at the highest rate, followed by Virginia creeper (Parthenocissus quinquefolio) with much lower consumption of other fruits (e.g., oriental bittersweet [Celastrus orbiculatus], multiflora rose [Rosa multiflora], winterberry [Ilex verticillata]). Antioxidant concentrations primarily differed by shrub species and less so between sites. Arrowwood spp. had the highest total antioxidants, followed by Virginia creeper, northern bayberry (Myrica pennsylvanica), chokeberry spp. (Aronia prunifolia, A. melanocarpa), multiflora rose, winterberry, and oriental bittersweet. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that free-living birds select fruits based, in part, on antioxidant content. We suggest birds may actively select polyphenol/anthocyanin-rich fruits during autumn migration to protect themselves against the potentially damaging effects of oxidative stress caused by long-distance fasting flight.
41932840|The effects of post-laying egg spottiness on nestling condition and parental provisioning were investigated in a nest box-breeding population of European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris). Our objectives were to ascertain whether egg spottiness was associated with the nest ectoparasite Carnus hemapterus, and to examine potential relationships between egg spottiness, presence of C. hemapterus, nestling condition, and parental provisioning effort in European Starlings. Spotted-egg clutches were present over all 3 years in our population, but the spots did not reflect C. hemapterus abundance. Nestlings from spotted-egg clutches did not have more C. hemapterus than those from unspotted-egg clutches. However, nestlings from spotted clutches were in better condition than those from unspotted clutches. Nestling condition was not associated with C. hemapterus abundance. Adult male and female provisioning rates to the offspring did not differ between spotted and unspotted clutches. Similarly, the proportion of provisioning visits by males did not differ significantly between spotted and unspotted clutches, indicating that parents in our population of European Starlings do not use egg spots as a cue to altering their provisioning effort. Further research is required to fully understand the cause and consequences of egg spots in European Starlings.
41932841|We studied the Lesser Elaenia (Elaenia chiriquensis) to understand temporal patterns of occurrence and breeding of an intratropical migrant in a highly seasonal savanna (Cerrado). We tested the hypotheses that: (1) occurrence of the Lesser Elaenia in breeding areas is long, as expected for a migrant breeding in the Neotropics, and (2) the breeding period is also lengthy, as the breeding window increases in tropical latitudes. We recorded the abundance of individuals (n = 5,603 records) and nests (n = 502) during three breeding seasons (2005-2007). The Lesser Elaenia occurred in the study area during a 4.5-month period (between Aug and Dec = 132 days), but was abundant during a shorter period (105 days). An interval of 2.5 months (77 days) occurred between the first and last egg-laying dates, concentrated in a shorter interval (63 days). The occurrence period of the Lesser Elaenia in the Cerrado was one of the shortest recorded for a neotropical migratory flycatcher and was most similar to other congeneric species that breed at higher latitudes. The breeding period in this tropical seasonal environment may be intermediary between the humid tropics and the south temperate region.
41932842|We investigated the amount of time Black-tailed Gulls (Larus crassirostris) incubated and its effects on hatching interval within two-egg clutches. Incubation patterns were classified into three categories (rising, steady, or pulsed) related to daily change of incubation rate until clutch completion. Hatching intervals (mean  SD, 0.95  0.76 days) were significantly shorter than laying intervals (2.56  0.75 days). There was a significant positive relationship between incubation rate on the day when the first egg was laid (day 1) and hatching interval (Spearman's r s = 0.677, P = 0.016). The incubation rate on day 1 also increased (Spearman's r s = 0.521, P = 0.039) as the breeding season progressed, and hatching interval expanded (Kruskal-Wallis test:  = 8.3, P = 0.016, range = 0-2 day). Thus, the amount of time gulls spent incubating on day 1 was important in affecting hatching intervals and suggested that parents partially controlled hatching intervals with seasonal change by timing of the onset of incubation in this species.
41932843|Whooping Cranes (Grus americana) are a long-lived, monogamous avian species, yet little documentation of copulatory behavior and timing in relation to egg-laying has occurred in wild populations. We monitored 10 crane pairs in Florida before and during the 2010 breeding season to document copulation timing and preand post-copulatory behavior. Monitoring began 111 days before incubation initiation for the first nest of the season. Pairs were observed for 124.62 hrs (x = 76.30 min, range = 14-375 min) during 98 observation periods; 17 observation periods occurred on days with precipitation. Three copulations were observed, two by one established pair and another by unpaired individuals. The copulations by the established pair occurred 9 and 18 days before incubation began. The third was an extra-pair copulation, which occurred between a paired female and a lone male, the first documented for the species. No copulations were observed on days with precipitation. We examined flock monitoring accounts from 1999 through 2009 in this non-migratory population; 21 observations of copulations revealed Whooping Cranes copulated up to 62 days before incubation began and between 0510-1345 hrs EST. Our data suggest copulation occurs between early morning and early afternoon and does not appear to be associated with precipitation.
41932844|Feral herbivores can affect birds on islands indirectly, by altering habitat structure via impacts on vegetation. I censused birds in an open shrub/grassland habitat on Santa Cruz Island, California, in 1980 and again in 2008, 24 years after feral sheep were removed, in order to assess avian responses to vegetation changes resulting from sheep removal. Vegetation change was characterized by an increased density of both overstory and low-growing shrubs, along with denser herbaceous vegetation, and these characteristics were associated with substantial changes in bird abundance. Species that prefer dense shrubs, such as Spotted Towhees (Pipilo maculatus) and Orange-crowned Warblers (Oreothlypis celata), increased in abundance, whereas species such as House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) and Mourning Doves (Zenaida macroura) that prefer open, disturbed areas decreased. Rufous-crowned Sparrows (Aimophila ruficeps) and Island Scrub-Jays (Aphelocoma insularis), both insular endemic taxa, showed a mixed response and perhaps prefer wooded habitats in which low-growing vegetation is not exceptionally dense.
41932845|The Caucasian Grouse (Lyrurus mlokosiewiczi) is of conservation concern because it has been declining at least since the 1980s and has disappeared from parts of its range. We quantified landscape composition and configuration around Caucasian Grouse lek sites and random points within the Arasbaran Region in northeastern Azerbaijan, Iran at multiple scales (200-, 500-, and 1,000-m radii circles). We developed averaged logistic regression models based on Akaike Information Criterion weights for each scale. Habitat suitability models indicated good discrimination based on the receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) criteria (three averaged-models had ROC values >0.8), indicating landscape pattern can explain distribution of leks reasonably well. Unconditional, model-averaged estimates and 95% confidence intervals for beta estimates of variables included within buffer-width models suggest leks in the 200-m buffer width are in areas with lower standard deviation in patch area. Lek sites in the 500-m buffer-width models were predicted to be absent in landscapes where patches are more insular and have higher edge contrast. Lek sites were more likely to be present in landscapes having larger patches that were more irregular in shape and in habitats containing more patch types and greater proportion of forest and range cover types. The model-averaged estimates for the explanatory variables within the 1,000-m buffer width indicated lek sites were more likely to be present in landscapes that have high spatial heterogeneity as patches are more insular and contain the most forest and range cover types.
41932846|We studied the breeding biology of the Straight-billed Woodcreeper (Dendroplex picus) (Dendrocolaptinae) from eight nests in Hato Masaguaral, Venezuela and reviewed current literature for all woodcreeper species. Straight-billed Woodcreepers nested in PVC nest-boxes (n = 6) and in wooden fence posts (n = 2). Mean  SE clutch size was 2.50  0.19 eggs (n = 8) and egg mass was 5.41  0.12 g (n = 17). Egg mass and clutch mass represented 12.4% and 31% of adult mass, respectively. Both males and females incubated, but average incubation nest attentiveness (percent of time on the nest) was only 63.2  8.2% (n = 8). The relatively low nest attentiveness was associated with an incubation period of 17 days (n = 1). The nestling period was 17-18 days (n = 2), and both parents provisioned the young. Nestling growth rate constants (K) for mass, tarsus, and wing chord were 0.45  0.04, 0.34  0.03, and 0.27  0.02, respectively. Three of eight nests were successful and five were lost to predation. Comparisons with other woodcreepers for many traits are difficult because of limited information. The available information indicates female-only and biparental incubation exists within the Dendrocolaptinae. Our observations of the Straight-billed Woodcreeper add Dendroplex to the genera with biparental incubation.
41932847|The Laysan Finch (Telespiza cantans) is an endangered Hawaiian honeycreeper that occurs on only a few small islands in the northwestern Hawaiian Island Archipelago. Twenty-two years of recent population estimates (19912012) from Laysan Island were analyzed to ascertain the current status of this endangered species; the entire 44 years of census data available were then used to identify long-term population trends. Laysan Finch population estimates have exhibited extreme fluctuations that can be attributed at least in part to spring rainfall patterns. The average population size has remained at ~10,000 individuals. The Poisson regression analysis conducted for the last 22 years indicates a slightly deceasing annual population trend. However, when all 44 years of data were included in a comprehensive trend analysis, a stable population trend was documented. These results highlight the importance of long-term data sets when monitoring small closed populations - a situation commonly encountered with endangered species. Inherent resilience has allowed the finch population to rebound from declines and fluctuate around Laysan Island's carrying capacity, but the future is uncertain as climate change is expected to impact its low island habitats.
41932848|We studied exploitation of reedbeds by two specialist passerines, Reed Parrotbill (Paradoxornis heudei, listed as Near Threatened by the IUCN) and Oriental Reed Warbler (Acrocephalus orientalis), nesting in a tidal reedbed in the Changjiang River Estuary. Reed Parrotbills have significantly shorter, wider, and deeper bills than Oriental Reed Warblers. We distinguished >12 nest material categories in four groups (Phragmites, Zizania, artificial, and other) in nests of the two species. Reed Parrotbills used significantly fewer nest material categories, and had lower nest material diversity and a narrower nest material niche than Oriental Reed Warblers. More than 89% of the nest mass of Reed Parrotbills was Phragmites and was obtained from within the nesting habitat. More than 71 % of the nest mass of Oriental Reed Warblers was Zizania from outside the nesting habitat. Most Phragmites material used by Reed Parrotbills was living tissue from reed leaf sheathes and stems. The large bill of the Reed Parrotbill facilitates exploitation of tissues from living reed shoots for nest materials, while the relatively long and slender bill of the Oriental Reed Warbler constrains it to use living reed shoots and exploit nest material from outside of nesting habitats. This is similar to their exploitation of food resources in reedbeds: Reed Parrotbills extract concealed insects within reed shoots while Oriental Reed Warblers glean exposed arthropods on a variety of plants. We confirm that food resource exploitation by Reed Parrotbills and Oriental Reed Warblers demonstrates a relationship between bill morphology and feeding as well as nest building.
41932849|We compared House Wren (Troglodytes aedon) nests in nest boxes with either small (28 mm) or large (38 mm) entrance holes. Spring clutch size did not differ between wrens using boxes with large and small holes. Nests in boxes with large holes had a significantly taller 'berm' of sticks between the box entrance and the nest cup than did nests in boxes with small holes. This was true even when the same wren pairs were given boxes with different-size holes for spring and summer nests. We compared the difficulty of touching the eggs when we removed the frontplate of the nest box as an alternative measure of nest vulnerability to predators and brood parasites. There was a significant association between hole size and accessibility: boxes without the protection of a small entrance hole were far more likely to be categorized as 'inaccessible.' We found a similar relationship between berm height and nest architecture: nests with tall berms were generally less accessible than were nests with shorter berms. Contrary to earlier claims, House Wrens alter nest architecture to compensate for vulnerability of cavities with large entrance holes.
41932850|We studied nestling provisioning and male song behavior associated with provisioning by Carolina Wrens (Thryothorus ludovicianus) throughout the nestling period. Overall, males and females (n = 14 pairs) provisioned at similar rates throughout four nestling stages although males tended to provision more at the earliest nest stage (1-3 days). Males and females increased their rate of provisioning progressively over the nestling period. Parents brought one food item at a time to the nest and load sizes were similar between males and females, and between early and late nest stages. Males sang 34% of the time on arrival at nests to provision and 49% on leaving nests after provisioning. There was no relationship between male song and age of the nestlings. Males sang more after provisioning nestlings when females were not present (55%) than when females were present (33%) at the nest. The function of male song during provisioning may be to communicate the male's location to the female and to indicate he has recently provisioned the nestlings but this requires further study.
41932851|We monitored territory density, nest density, date of nest initiation, nest height, and associated vegetation characteristics of Marsh Wrens (Cistothorus palustris) in two marshes managed with herbicide in late summer 2009 to control Phragmites. Average territory density declined fourfold from 2.39 to 0.54 territories/ha (one-tailed Mest, P = 0.004), and average active nest density declined tenfold from 1.43 to 0.12 nests/ha (one-tailed t-test, P = 0.055) between 2009 and 2010. The mean date of nest initiation was twice as late in 2010 (21 Jul) as in 2009 (15 Jun), one-tailed t-test, P = 0.009. Mean nest height was similar (one-tailed t-test, P = 0.20) in 2009 (86.4 cm) and 2010 (79.6 cm), but the vegetation took longer to reach these heights in 2010, particularly at Old Woman Creek National Estuarine Research Reserve. These results suggest large scale aerial herbicide applications to manage Phragmites compromised productivity of Marsh Wrens in the coastal marshes studied. Caution should be used when considering broadcast, aerial applications of herbicides to treat Phragmites in habitats of marsh-dependent, declining, avian species.
41932852|We examined comparative food use and provisioning of Golden-fronted (Melanerpes aurifrons) and Ladder-backed (Picoides scalaris) woodpeckers at the Rob and Bessie Welder Wildlife Foundation Refuge, in San Patricio County, Texas. We combined video surveillance and direct observations to monitor provisioning rates and identify items delivered by adult woodpeckers to nestlings. We collected 328 hours of data at Ladder-backed Woodpecker nest cavities and 230 hours of data at Golden-fronted Woodpecker nest cavities. Ladder-backed Woodpecker nestling diets consisted of 100% animal matter, comprised of invertebrate larvae (99%) and invertebrate adults (<1%). Diets of Golden-fronted Woodpecker nestlings were also high in animal matter (77%) with more invertebrate adults (55%) and fewer invertebrate larvae (27%), but also included vegetable matter (16%). Morisita's measure of overlap suggested a relatively low dietary overlap of 31% between nestlings of these two sympatric woodpecker species. Foraging methods used by these species may explain their low dietary overlap and facilitate their coexistence.
41932853|Neotropical migratory bird survivorship during the time they spend in wintering areas has been of major concern during the last several decades, yet still little is known about it. Evidence of behaviors that could increase the probability of individual survival, as well as increasing future reproductive success such as winter site fidelity and winter residency have gradually been documented for several migratory species. No evidence of these behaviors has been documented in urban areas. We present the results of a 9-year monitoring study in the green area of the Ethnobotanical Garden in the urban area of Oaxaca, Oaxaca, Mexico, using banding. Six of the 48 neotropical migratory species captured were selected for analysis of winter site fidelity and winter residency. The Warbling Vireo (Vireo gilvus) had the highest recapture rate (31.7%) with the highest winter fidelity (14.6%) and winter residency (24.4%). The next four species had recapture rates between 10.6-15.7%, winter fidelity between 6.0-10.4%, and winter residency between 5.1-19.1%. The Cedar Waxwing (Bombycilla cedrorum) demonstrated neither winter fidelity nor winter residency. Our results suggest urban green space areas may have an underestimated role in migratory bird conservation.
41932854|We observed a pair of Belted Kingfishers (Megaceryle alcyon) as they initiated burrow excavation in a bank along Rattlesnake Creek near Missoula, Montana in April 2010. During 180 min of observation on the first three mornings (17-19 Apr) of burrow excavation we observed the kingfishers fly rapidly at the bank from perched or hovering distances of 1-3 m and strike the bank bill-first 176 times, forming a pit in the vertical bank about body-deep after 60 hrs of work. Both sexes performed aerial ramming, at roughly the same rate. On the fourth morning we saw no ramming during 40 min of observation while excavation continued, but the site was abandoned later in the day. Aerial ramming at the start of burrow excavation appeared necessary because (1) the bank was vertical to overhanging without exposed roots, providing no opportunity for the birds to perch at the excavation site when beginning to dig, and (2) the birds seemed unable to strike the substrate with sufficient force to promote excavation while perched on the bank or hovering at the burrow entrance until several days into excavation, perhaps due to the presence of imbedded gravel and cobble in the soil. At least 13 species of kingfishers in the subfamilies Alcedininae and Daceloninae are reported to aerial ram into potential burrow sites (banks, termitaria, trees). Ours appears to be the first report of aerial ramming by the Belted Kingfisher and a member of the subfamily Cerylinae.
41932855|We present the first detailed report of an apparently leucistic Darwin's Finch, observed on Punta Cevallos, Espaola Island, Galpagos (01 23.61' S, 89 37.11' W). We suggest that the unusual adult phenotype is a continuation of nestling beak color, which is usually masked by melanin in adults. Tissue-specific differences in beta-carotene dioxygenase 2 enzyme activity may explain the variation in yellow pigmentation in this individual's legs and beak.
41932856|The Taiwan Yuhina (Yuhina brunneiceps) and White-eared Sibia (Heterophasia auricularis) are nectar-feeding babblers endemic to Taiwan. We describe the morphological features of the brush-tipped tongues of these species. The tongue divides into two parts and then into four parts towards the distal end for both species. The tongues of the Taiwan Yuhina and White-eared Sibia are specialized organs adapted for collection of nectar.
41932857|We studied Black-necked Cranes (Grus nigricollis), a Globally Vulnerable species and the only alpine breeding cranes in the world, to test whether and how predation vulnerability and flock size affect vigilance. Crane flocks were defined as high predation vulnerability (parents with juveniles) and low predation vulnerability (adults without juveniles). Both predation vulnerability and flock size influenced vigilance of Black-necked Cranes. High predation vulnerability flocks were significantly more vigilant than low predation vulnerability flocks at both the group scan level (t = 2.379, df = 66, P = 0.02) and group scan frequency (t = 3.208, df = 66, P = 0.002). Predation vulnerability and flock size affected vigilance in Black-necked Cranes (ANCOVA: group scan level, flock size: F = 13.013, P = 0.001, predation vulnerability: F = 7.728, P = 0.007); group scan frequency, flock size: F = 13.873, P < 0.001, predation vulnerability: F = 10.882, P = 0.002).
41932858|Predator-prey interactions occur regularly in nature; however, predation events are difficult to observe in the canopy of tropical rain forests. We describe a successful capture of a Chestnut-mandibled Toucan (Ramphastos swainsonii) by a Collared Forest-Falcon (Micrastur semitorquatus) in Carara National Park, Costa Rica. The predator-prey interaction lasted for ~30 min from the moment of the first wounding strike in the canopy to the killing of the toucan on the ground. During the predation process, the falcon engaged in multiple attacks from different directions at the sub-canopy level. We video recorded a total of 323.3 sec tracks during the predation event to produce a detailed description of the behavior of both species. In addition, we analyzed the structure of the call of the toucan while being attacked and compared that with a regular call of another individual recorded at a different time in the same area. The toucan produced a distress call with strong harmonics and a broad-band rattling sound as a threatening call. We comment on the possible function of the calls.
41932859|James's Flamingos (Phoenicoparrus jamesi), also known as Puna Flamingos, are distributed primarily in the Andean wetlands of southern South America during the breeding season, and dispersed through the lowland wetlands in Argentina during the non-breeding season. However, the main sites where they concentrate during the non-breeding season still remain unknown. Here, we report the first records of James's Flamingos observed in two consecutive years (two adults in Aug 2010, one adult and two subadults in Jul 2011) at Laguna Melincu, a Ramsar site in Santa Fe Province, Argentina (33 25' S, 61 28' W, 84 m asl). James's Flamingos were feeding in a mixed flock of Andean and Chilean flamingos (Phoenicoparrus andinus and Phoenicopterus chilensis, respectively). Our observations constitute the southernmost record for presence of this flamingo species at any lowland site and indicate the high dispersal ability of this species and its plasticity in occupying different wetland types during the non-breeding season.
41932860|Thripadectes, a little studied genus in Funariidae has thorough nest descriptions for five of its seven species, most consisting of one or two nests. Although the nest of Thripadectes holostictus has been described, it is based only on two nests, and there is no nest description for the subspecies, T. h. moderatus, which we report in this study. Between October and December 2011, we monitored four nests of T. h. moderatus in Manu National Park, Peru. In addition to reporting the first nest for the subspecies T. h. moderatus, we provide new information for T. holostictus, including incubation period (between 13-17 days), fledgling period (20-23 days), fresh egg weights (x  SE = 5.8  0.1 g), nestling growth patterns, further evidence for biparental care, and new observations on nest materials.
41933183|We describe a new species of Scytalopus tapaculo (Aves: Passeriformes: Rhinocryptidae) from the temperate humid montane forests (2,400-3,200 m) of Junn Department, Peru. This species has a unique song that differs strikingly from that of any known Scytalopus species, consisting of a rapidly repeated series of ascending phrases. Phenotypically, the new species is uniformly blackish in color and small-to-medium in size, most similar to members of the allopatric S. latrans complex. At least six species of Scytalopus occur along an elevational gradient on the eastern slopes of the Andes in Junin; in the vicinity of the type locality, the new species replaces S. femoralis at 2,400-2,500 m, and is replaced by S. acutirostris at 2,900-3,200 m. Throughout its elevational range, the new species is broadly syntopic with the larger S. macropus. This species is currently known from a single river drainage; although it probably occurs more broadly, it is likely a range-restricted species endemic to central Peru.
41933184|Rohwer et al. (2009) present isotopic evidence of migratory double breeding by five species of birds that were breeding in July and August in northwestern Mexico. The presence of old brood patches in these species, combined with their late breeding in Mexico, suggested that these species had bred earlier in the north. Here we present data showing that Orchard Orioles and Yellow-breasted Chats breed as commonly in coastal Sinaloa in late May and early June as they do later in the summer; further, many females of these species examined in early June 2011 had downy ventral apteria, indicating that they were breeding for the first time in their annual cycle in Sinaloa. Thus, the old brood patches observed in these species in July and August, when they are still breeding in northwestern Mexico, may reflect earlier breeding attempts by those same individuals in Mexico. Yellow-billed Cuckoos seldom call and are uncommon in northwestern Mexico until late June and likely do not begin breeding until July. For Yellow-billed Cuckoos there had been no description of how the ventral apterium changes with breeding, so Rohwer et al. (2009) assumed that it followed a passerine pattern of refeathering during the post-breeding molt. To test this assumption we examined the ventral apterium in cuckoo specimens collected throughout the winter and found that it remains featherless throughout the year, including immediately after the complete mid winter molt. Thus, the bare ventral apteria of cuckoos arriving in northwestern Mexico in June and July do not constitute evidence of prior breeding in that year.
41933185|We document the first confirmed cases of polygyny and double brooding in the Eastern Wood-Pewee (Contopus virens). During an intensive study of the effects of shelterwood harvesting on canopy-nesting songbirds in southeastern Ohio, 2007-2010, we color-banded 79 Eastern Wood-Pewees and monitored 237 pewee nests. In 2007, we confirmed a color-banded male provisioning at two concurrently active nests; the male was polygynous in at least two consecutive years. In 2009, we observed an unbanded female feeding fledglings and subsequently shaping a nest from which young had recently fledged; the female successfully fledged two broods from the same nest. In addition to confirmed observations, we identified several other probable cases of polygyny and double brooding. In our upland oak system, we estimated rates of polygyny from 6-22% with the greatest occurrence of polygyny during a dry spring in 2007; rates of double brooding may have been as high as 6-12%. Males appeared to benefit from polygyny, because males paired with two females fledged twice as many young compared to monogamous males, without any apparent negative effect on return rate. Overall, we did not find negative effects on reproductive success for females paired with polygynous males, although we were not able to consistently differentiate between primary and secondary females. Polygyny appeared to be related to either territory quality and/or male quality with nests of polygynous males located in preferred nest sites while provisioning rates were greater at polygynous compared to monogamous nests. In addition, we only found experienced males paired with two females. Both males and females benefited from double brooding, fledging twice as many young as single brooded pairs, but in our system double brooding appeared to be limited by high levels of nest predation early in the breeding season.
41933186|Many aspects of the breeding biology of Afrotropical forest birds are poorly known. Here we provide a description based on the monitoring of 1461 active nests over eight breeding seasons about one or more aspects of the breeding biology for 28 coexisting understory bird species on the Amani Plateau in the East Usambara Mountains, Tanzania. Mean nest height and mean distance of nest from forest edge varied widely among species with most species constructing nests across a broad vertical and forest edge to interior gradient. However, there were important exceptions with all sunbird species and several dove and waxbill species constructing nests in close proximity to the forest edge. For 17 common species for which we recorded two or more active nests, mean clutch size across species was 1.9 eggs per clutch, the lowest site-specific mean clutch size yet reported for a tropical forest bird community. For nine bird species, a subset of the 17 common species, length of breeding season, defined as the difference between the earliest and latest recorded incubation onset date, ranged from 88-139 days. Most of these nine species displayed a unimodal distribution in incubation onset dates across a breeding season which extended from the end of August through middle January. In summary, a wide variation exists in most aspects of the breeding biology within an understory forest bird community in the East Usambara Mountains.
41933187|We provide the first detailed nesting biology information for the Yellow-breasted Warbling-Antbird (Hypocnemis subflava), a member of the recently split Warbling Antbird complex. We found seven pouch-shaped nests with two eggs or nestlings within Manu National Park, SE Peru. Long incubation sessions (93.7  7.78 minutes, range = 4-480 minutes, n = 18 days) were untaken by both parents and high diurnal nest attentiveness (% of time on the nest) averaged 85.8  1.4% (n = 16) as a result of taking fewer short foraging trips (6.3  0.6 trips/day, range = 3-11; n = 14) that lasted 16.19  1.78 min (range = 1-91; n = 18). Incubation behavior produced an average inner nest temperature of 32.3  0.24 C (n = 15 days) and average egg temperature of 36.4  0.09 C (n = 3). Individual nests at different elevations exhibit differences in incubation behavior. The nestling period was 11 days (n = 1) and both parents brooded and fed the nestlings. Nest shape, location, and composition were similar to other species in the complex, but egg coloration was variable among species.
41933188|The Spectacled Tyrant (Hymenops perspicillatus) is a flycatcher that inhabits open lands, grassy areas near water bodies, marshes, fields and pastures in southern South America. Our aim was to describe the breeding biology of Spectacled Tyrants in native tall grasslands, specifically by studying their reproductive phenology and breeding success. The study was developed in the southeastern Pampas region, Argentina. We conducted nest searching and monitoring during the 2010-2011 and 2011-2012 breeding seasons. We found 88 nests. The breeding season was from mid-October to late January. Clutch size was 2-3 eggs, mode = 2. Incubation and nestling periods were 15.8  0.7 days and 14.7  0.6 days, respectively. Nest predation was higher during the incubation period than during laying and nestling periods. The probability of nest success from egg-laying to fledging was 0.24. This species shows life-history traits in accordance with other South American temperate birds.
41933189|We present detailed information on the breeding biology of a migratory population of the Tawny-bellied Seedeater (Sporophila hypoxantha), a typical member of the "capuchinos" group. Data were collected for 69 nests from 2007-2010 in areas of hilly dry grasslands in southern Brazil. Breeding begins in early November, a week after the seedeaters arrive, peaks in late November, and lasts until late February, when individuals migrate north. Females build small open-cup nests in small shrubs (mainly Vernonia chamaedrys and Eupatoriwn polystachyurn), 41.9  0.8 cm (range 27-60 cm, n = 38) above the ground. Clutch size is two (91%) or three eggs (n = 43), which measure 16.22  0.51 mm by 11.93  0.28 mm (n = 10), and incubation, which is performed by the female, lasts 12 days. Average nest attentiveness during incubation was 60  5% (n = 5) with 20-31 min on-bouts. Males help feed the nestlings beginning on the fifth day after hatching. Provisioning visits/hr averaged 4.6  0.7 (n = 6) and females brooded after feeding the young in 48% of the visits when nestlings were 1-4 days old. When nestlings were 6-9 days old, the average visits/hr increased (8.95  1.8, n = 11; z = -2.5, P = 0.012), with brooding after feeding in 14% of the visits. Nestlings fledged after 9-10 days. The basic reproductive characteristics of the migratory population are very similar to those found in the resident population in the Formosa region, Argentina, but the breeding season, time spent building the nest, and length of visits to the nest during the nestling stage were shorter.
41933190|Prescribed fire is a frequently applied land-management tool for the preservation and maintenance of southern pine woodlands. Many avian species benefit from the use of prescribed fire in pine woodlands; however, the effect fire has on nesting site characteristics is not well understood for many disturbance-dependent species. We located nests of Bachman's Sparrows (Peucaea aestivalis) in mature longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) forests managed using frequent prescribed fires (return intervals 2 years). Vegetation characteristics were measured at each nest (n = 37), within a 0.04-ha area immediately adjacent to nests, and at different time intervals following burns within a larger 20-ha area surrounding nests. We examined vegetation characteristics within the 20-ha area 2, 6, 12, and 18 months after prescribed burns to compare post-fire plant succession with site characteristics associated with nest sites. Nest sites had lower amounts of grass standing crop, grass ground cover, and higher amounts of woody vegetation than found in the 0.04-ha area immediately surrounding nests. Vegetation structure at nests sites was similar to the structure measured across the 20-ha area <6 months following burns, but vegetation structure at ground level began to deviate 6 months after fires such that 50% of the values differed from the values recorded at nest sites. Results point to the importance of open vegetation structure at ground level and the need for frequent burning to maintain appropriate nesting habitat. Vegetation characteristics associated with nest sites appear to be highly ephemeral and tightly linked to conditions at ground level. As such, suitable nest sites likely represent a subset of areas occupied by singing males.
41933191|The functional consequences of nest size variation in cavity nesting birds have been thoroughly investigated in recent years. However, it is unknown whether recent nest-building experience influences subsequent nest architecture. By providing Eastern Bluebirds (Sialia sialis) with either deep or shallow nest boxes for their initial nest of the breeding season, we tested whether the height of their subsequent nest in the same breeding season reflected the height of their initial nest or whether they built nests to match their current nest cavity regardless of their previous nest height. We found that second nests built in deep boxes were significantly taller than first nests built in shallow boxes by the same females. This difference could be because of nest date, cavity depth, or experience. We tested each possible driver and found that cavity depth better explains variation in nest height than either nest date or prior experience. We conclude that, for this multi-brooded secondary cavity nesting passerine, the roles of learning and experience are secondary to the importance of behavioral plasticity.
41933192|Little is known about the post-fledging period in most bird species, and almost nothing has been reported for the family Emberizidae, including New World sparrows. We report here, for the first time, the sizes (wing length and body weight) of, and the distances traveled by fledgling Grasshopper Sparrows within their hatch summer in a restored Atlantic Coastal grassland in Maryland. In the years 2002-2009, we recaptured 24.3% of the 799 banded nestlings in the grasslands at least once within their hatch year. Body weight was not correlated with wing length, wing length did not change with time of recapture, and the average fledgling gained weight by 14% in 100 days. Smaller than average birds were missing from late summer recaptures. As expected, the distance traveled increased significantly with time, but the average fledgling was recaptured 346 m from its nest. The average time of recapture was 33 days after fledging; the youngest recapture was 5 days after fledging and it dispersed a net 580 m from its nest; the longest and fastest distance recorded was 1,615 m from the natal nest in no more than 20 days; the longest recorded retention was 97 days by a local that moved a net distance of 753 m. We conclude that most fledglings in this population of Grasshopper Sparrows remain within their natal habitat for most of the months prior to their pre-formative molt, and that at least 1:4 of them survive at remarkably high rates.
41933193|Scissor-tailed Flycatchers (Tyrannus forficatus) are insectivorous Neotropical migrants that breed in the south-central United States. We examined their fine-scale (circles 300 m in radius centered on observed flycatcher locations) associations with different land cover types in south-central Texas. Scissor-tailed Flycatchers use a sit-and-scan foraging strategy; therefore, we expected the species would be positively associated with open land cover types (vegetation with little or no canopy) such as grassland, pasture/hayfield and cropland, and negatively associated with forest and shrubland given that the latter could obstruct visual scanning. We conducted 44 surveys from 9 May 2011 to 15 December 2011 by slowly driving (30 km/h) rural roads throughout 15 counties in south-central Texas and 3 near the coast of the Gulf of Mexico. Using ArcGIS, we quantified the percent cover of four general land cover types (urban/developed land, forest/shrub, grassland/pasture/hay, and cropland) within 300 m of each flycatcher location. Statistical analysis involved comparing the land cover of the flycatcher locations to a set of random points along the same routes. On average, flycatcher locations had significantly more grassland/pasture/hay than did random points (38.8 vs. 31.2%) and significantly less forest/shrub (29.9 vs. 36.7%). Therefore, although flycatchers may associate with open land cover at a rate greater than its overall availability, they generally occupy locations that have a mix of open and closed land cover. Knowledge of flycatcher habitat use at a fine-scale could be useful to the successful conservation of this species.
41933194|We evaluated sites on an industrial forest in central Arkansas that American Woodcocks (Scolopax minor) used for courtship during their spring migration. Our main objective was to determine the vegetation characteristics used by male woodcocks on their courtship sites within early successional pine stands. We quantified use within three stages of early successional pine stand; pine seedling (1 year old), young-pine sapling (2-3 years old), and old-pine sapling (4-5 years old). We used crespuscular surveys as an index to the number of woodcock using each stand. We completed surveys in January-March 2010 and 2011 on eight stands of each stage (n = 24) during 7-10 day sampling periods across spring migration. We quantified the vegetation structure of each stand including the percent of bare ground, standing herbaceous, flattened herbaceous, shrub, coarse woody debris, and canopy cover and horizontal density. We found that woodcocks used stands with greater shrub, standing herbaceous, and flattened herbaceous cover. This is different from other studies in the southern United States that have shown woodcocks to use areas with sparse vegetation and increased bare ground. We suggest this disparity occurred because previous studies assumed constant detection between stands with different vegetative structure, whereas we completed detection tests to determine how vegetative structure may influence detection between stand types and incorporated these differences in detection into our analyses.
41933195|In Florida, roughly 18,000 ha of treatment wetlands called Stormwater Treatment Areas (STAs) have been constructed on agricultural land to reduce phosphorous loads to the Everglades. Little is known about how avian communities in these STAs compare to those present on other similar land types. In 2008-2009, point counts were conducted seasonally in the STAs, nearby croplands, and natural Everglades marsh to compare avian communities among these habitats. Overall, avian densities were nearly three times greater in STAs than in the croplands and 38 times greater than in the natural marsh. Local species richness in the STAs was 78% greater than in croplands and nearly four times greater than in the natural marsh. Although natural marshes may have more structural complexity than the croplands and STAs, their oligotrophic status probably limits their ability to support a large bird community. Avian densities varied seasonally among habitat types; avian density was greatest in the winter in STAs as a result of high densities of migratory waterfowl. The STAs may be providing wintering habitat to a significant portion of the North American waterfowl population, including as much as 8% of the breeding population of American Coots (Fulica americana). If the trend of increasing numbers of treatment wetlands continues, it has the potential to alter the distribution of wetland birds, a group that has previously suffered population declines because of habitat loss.
41933196|Neighbor-stranger discrimination is the ability to recognize and respond differentially to familiar and unfamiliar conspecifics. This type of recognition is common in species that aggressively defend territories, such as the colonially nesting Great Black-backed Gull (Lams marinas). This species has a large agonistic signal repertoire, which includes the "yeow," a short-range threat vocalization. A playback experiment was used to determine whether Great Black-backed Gulls are capable of recognition on the basis of this call type. Subjects maintained alert postures for significantly longer in response to unfamiliar yeows than to those of their mates or neighbors. To my knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate neighbor-stranger discrimination on the basis of a threat vocalization.
41933197|Delayed plumage maturation (DPM) in young males (in their second year of life: SY) of some species of birds has been found to reduce aggression directed at these younger males. Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) are unusual because it is SY females rather than males that display DPM; however, the functional significance for DPM remains equivocal. During the breeding season, we tested whether both male and female Tree Swallows behaved differently towards SY and older (after second year: ASY) female Tree Swallow models. When presented as a territory intruder, we predicted that ASY models would receive more aggression from resident pairs if ASY females are perceived as a greater competitive threat. When presented as a territory owner, we predicted that SY models would experience more territorial intrusions if SY plumage is perceived as a signal of inexperience in territory defense. When models were presented as intruders, resident females were more aggressive towards ASY models compared to SY models. When presented as territory owners, ASY models received more aggression than SY models from intruding Tree Swallows, although we suspect that intruders were neighboring Tree Swallows with already established territories, as opposed to birds seeking to settle within the territories of our models. Overall, our results suggest that DPM in female Tree Swallows is an adaptive trait that potentially reduces intrasexual competition for SY females during the breeding season.
41933198|The Ryukyu Scops Owl, Otus elegans, is distributed over a 1,200-km area, only inhabiting islands. Within this range, I studied this species across 20 continental islands in the Ryukyu Archipelago and two oceanic islands. Although most studies recently use quantitative continuous measurements of many specific aspects of the vocalization, I introduced a new method, "typological analysis" to visually classify variation of spectrograms according to the shape of syllable in the owl species, examining their dialects in relation to their geographical distribution. In the typological analysis, hoot, syllable, and element types were defined according to the number of syllables, the degree of timescale overlap of the first and second elements in the second syllable, and relative differences of duration and frequency of two elements in the second syllable, respectively. Although frequencies of hoot and element types in each island population were significantly different between the island groups north and south of the Kerama Gap across the archipelago, hoot and element types were shared between the island groups. Furthermore, typological variation occurred in syllable types, however there were no differences in frequencies of syllable types between the island groups. Geographic structure in vocal parameters as steep clines with stepped variation is represented as a dialect. According to the definition, this study found that no unique dialects in hoots occurred between the different island populations of Ryukyu Scops Owls. The Kerama Gap might act as a biogeographical barrier, contributing to the differentiation between owl hoots according to spectrotemporal analyses; however, the typological analysis detected the distribution of typological characteristics of hoots on the small islands north of the Kerama Gap that contradicts this concept of a biogeographical barrier. Because the typological analysis needs to visually examine each individual by careful attention to detail, it is a good method for discovering minor geographic variations and patterns in bird vocalizations.
41933199|The Cerulean Warbler (Setophaga cerulea) is a North American landbird showing a high rate of population decline. Estimates of its annual adult survival rate are needed to evaluate its current population status. Annual return rates of 104 color-banded adult male Cerulean Warblers were used to estimate minimum annual survival from 2008-2011. The study site was a large oak-hickory forest bordered by a mosaic of forest tracts and agricultural land in southwestern Michigan. Cormack-Jolly-Seber (CJS) live recapture models yielded an annual survival estimate () of 0.59. This estimate lies in the range of available CJS survival estimates for other Neotropical migratory species with different population trajectories. In addition, this survival value confirms sink population status for Cerulean Warbler breeding populations studied at widespread locations in the breeding range (all  < 1.0). Inter-year breeding dispersal was frequently <1.0 km, but seven banded males made breeding dispersal movements among years >1.0 km. Previous studies have suggested that some adult male Cerulean Warblers make very long-distance breeding dispersal movements among years, suggesting realized annual survival rates are higher than reported. The annual adult male survival rate reported here is similar to the only other value obtained from a breeding population of this species. In aggregate, these findings suggest that reduced breeding ground productivity is a probable cause of the long-term population decline of the Cerulean Warbler. Conservation efforts focused on this imperiled songbird species might focus on increasing this demographic factor, perhaps via reforestation of the breeding grounds.
41933200|The McKay's Bunting (Plectrophenax hyperboreus) is one of the rarest passerine species in North America and breeds solely on St. Matthew and Hall islands in the remote Bering Sea, Alaska. We examined the nesting ecology of this poorly studied species on St. Matthew Island in 1982, 1983, and 2003. We found that the high breeding density of the McKay's Bunting may account for the lower clutch size and number of young fledged per successful nest compared to its sister species, the Snow Bunting (P. nivalis). The proportion of eggs that successfully hatched was higher for McKay's Buntings than Snow Buntings breeding at other Arctic locations in North America. Daily nest survival declined during egg-laying and incubation and increased throughout the nestling period. Nesting chronology was earlier in 2003 compared to the 1980s; however, daily nest survival was similar between decades. To assess how McKay's Buntings are responding to climate-mediated changes to physical and biotic conditions, we recommend monitoring the species' reproductive rates and population size.
41933201|Based on 805 observations of 63 species, we identified the main breeding seasons of avian trophic guilds in New Caledonia. Most omnivorous and carnivorous birds had undefined breeding periods with moderate peaks during the warm/dry season and the hot/rainy season. In contrast, nectarivorous, frugivorous, granivorous and insectivorous species had marked breeding seasons that started at the beginning of the warm/dry season and ended in the hot/rainy season. Introduced species also reproduced during these periods, regardless of the trophic guild to which they belonged.
41933202|The temporal and spatial patterns of avian brood parasitism can critically influence host fitness, the coevolution of parasitic strategies and host resistance, and their reciprocal effects on population dynamics. This study examined spatial patterns of Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) parasitism on Eastern Phoebe (Sayornis phoebe) hosts in 2009-2011 near Ithaca, NY, USA, and compared them with published data from 1999-2002 at the same nest sites, encompassing a period long enough for a turn-over of most of the breeding adult host and parasite populations. Relative to non-parasitized nests, host nests, that were more likely to be parasitized annually in 2009-2011, had also been parasitized more often during years 1999-2002. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that Brown-headed Cowbirds, even across generations, show a consistent preference for particular Eastern Phoebe nest sites. It remains unclear what the relative roles of the biological traits of the hosts occupying those sites versus the ecological and physical characteristics of the actual nest sites may be in yielding these patterns. Nonetheless, the results imply that knowing the site-specific histories of parasitism of reusable nests and breeding sites can be used to predict variation in the risk and future impact of cowbirds on this host species.
41933203|We present the first nest description for the Lawrence's Thrush (Turdus lawrencii), found on 9 February 2011 in the lowland tropical forest at the Tiputini Biodiversity Station, Orellana province, Ecuador. The nest was situated 1.6 m off the ground, tucked in the hollow end of a broken dead tree. The open-cup nest conformed to the shape of the depression in which it was built, and averaged 13.0 cm in diameter and 6.6 cm in depth. The inner cup diameter averaged 8 cm and the maximum depth was 4 cm. The nest was constructed of moss, leafy liverworts, and fungal rhizoids held together with mud. During 6.5 hrs of observation on 13 and 14 February 2011, we observed the female feeding the nestlings while the male remained in the vicinity of the nest. We conclude that the nest composition of Lawrence's Thrush is typical of other thrush species, and based on our limited behavioral data we also conclude parental care is comparable to other Turdus species.
41933204|As part of monitoring a population of Canada Geese (Branta canadensis maxima) in southern Quebec, two siblings hatched in the same nest in 2008 were later observed breeding together. The geese were first seen as a pair in spring 2011, and we found their nest the following year 437 m from their natal nest site. The sibling pair had lower hatching success than other pairs of the same age cohort. To our knowledge, this is the first report of sibling pairing in the wild for a goose species. Adoption is common in geese, and siblings reared in different family groups may be unfamiliar to one another, which may be the case for the observed sibling pair. Since geese are perennial monogamous birds, full siblings are produced each year, providing further possibility for inbreeding, but we found no pairing among siblings of different ages. Natal dispersal was more important for males and this could contribute, with kin recognition, to inbreeding avoidance.
41933205|Habitat fragmentation is particularly severe in the Lower Rio Grande Valley (LRGV) of Texas, where greater than 90% of the native wetland habitat has been replaced by agriculture and urban development. The Brownsville Common Yellowthroat (Geothlypis trichas insperata), a rare subspecies of the Common Yellowthroat restricted to this area, is a good model for studying the effects of this extensive fragmentation on avian genetics and ecology. In this study, three hypotheses addressing genetics and habitat fragmentation were tested: (1) the density of Brownsville Yellowthroats is greatest along the Rio Grande rather than away from the river; (2) individuals found on or near the Rio Grande are more closely related than individuals farther away; and (3) a source-sink metapopulation model is the best fit to describe the population dynamics of the subspecies. We used 15 microsatellites to examine the genetic diversity of 128 individuals from Cameron and Hidalgo Counties (Texas) sampled during 2008-2009. The densities of yellowthroats at sites near the Rio Grande were not significantly different from densities at sites farther from the river. Genetic analysis indicated that individuals were as related to each other as would be expected in distant relatives and indicated the presence of a single, admixed population. The results suggest that the Brownsville Common Yellowthroat is able to move freely among isolated habitat patches and that wetlands along the Rio Grande do not act as an exclusive corridor for this species.
41933206|Billions of birds are estimated to be killed striking clear and reflective windows worldwide, and conservation, ethical, and legal reasons justify preventing this unintended human-associated avian mortality. Field experiments reveal that to be effective, UV signals used to prevent bird-window collisions must minimally reflect 20-40% from 300-400 nm. Field experiments reveal 3.175 mm parachute cord hung in front of clear and reflective windows separated by 10.8 cm and 8.9 cm are effective bird-window collision preventive methods. The results of the parachute cord experiment and those of previous studies support the importance of applying collision prevention methods to the outside window surface reflecting the facing habitat and sky. Comparison of field and tunnel testing experimental protocols to evaluate bird-window collision preventive methods suggest that tunnel testing is useful for initial assessment but not as a definitive measure of effectiveness.
41933207|Avian nests face a wide variety of nest predators, which pose different risks that could select for the ability of parents to notify conspecifics of nest predator type. We previously demonstrated that the Japanese Tit (Parus minor) produces acoustically distinct mobbing calls for different nest predators (crows and snakes), thereby eliciting different and appropriate anti-predator responses not only in parents, but also in nestlings. However, the variation in mobbing call behavior may have been caused by differences in the experimental methods used, whereby each nest was presented with either a mounted crow or a live caged snake. In the present study, we observed a total of seven natural encounters of Japanese Tits with crows (n = 4) and snakes (n = 3) near their nests. Consistent with the previous experiments, Japanese Tits produced distinct mobbing calls, namely, "chicka" calls for crows (4/4) and "jar" calls for snakes (3/3). Thus, we conclude that mobbing calls of Japanese Tits signal nest predator type to both parents and nestlings.
41933208|We observed feigning behavior by a male Red-crowned Crane (Grus japonensis) in Heilongjiang province, China. The male crane pretended to be injured to draw a larger intruder away from the young. The Red-crowned Crane held his quivering right wing pointed down at the ground, stretching his neck out, running quick short steps with an exaggerated limp (broken-wing ruse). Then, he spread both quivering wings and tail and ran with quick short steps (trailing wing ruse). These 'injury feigning' behaviors have not been recorded previously in this species, and this is only the third observation of these behaviors in cranes (Gruidae).
41933209|Scavenging is a common behavior in many animal species and can increase the fitness of individuals and populations. Scavenging has been documented more commonly in recent years with advances in technology, including in difficult to observe avian species. Four North American owl species have been documented scavenging, and here we relate the first documented scavenging by a Western Screech-Owl (Megascops kennicottii), which was video-documented with a motiontriggered camera. The screech-owl visited a Virginia Opossum (Didelphus virginiana) carcass seven times over an 11-hr period, with the longest visit lasting 7 mins (mean = 3.14  SD 2.34 mins); during the visits the owl actively fed on the carcass. The most common prey of Western Screech-Owls are small mammals, insects, arthropods, and small birds. No mesocamivore or large mammal has ever been detected in diet studies of screech-owls, though screech-owls have been shown to attack and kill prey larger than themselves. The importance of carrion in owl diets is largely unexplored, and the scavenging behavior of owls could be more significant than currently believed depending on its availability and the presence of competing scavengers. Further research is needed to establish the commonality of scavenging by owls, and its various ecological effects.
41933210|Migratory and non-migratory Whooping Cranes (Grus americana) historically inhabited southwestern Louisiana until they were extirpated in 1950. Little is known about the feeding habits or dietary items of these cranes except for anecdotal evidence from local residents provided to R. P. Allen for his influential 1952 work on Whooping Cranes. Other populations of Whooping Cranes have been characterized as opportunistic omnivores, consuming small vertebrates, invertebrates, and plant material. In 2009, southwestern Louisiana was selected as a reintroduction site for Whooping Cranes. We report on four observations of reintroduced Whooping Cranes depredating at least two different species of turtles (common snapping turtle and mud turtle), which have not been previously reported as a dietary item for this species.
41933211|Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) have been observed foraging on intertidal Pacific sand crabs (Hippidae, Emerita analoga) in the swash zone of sandy beaches around Coal Oil Point Reserve, California, and several other beaches on the west coast since at least November 2010. Unlike foraging shorebirds, Mallards do not avoid incoming swashes. Instead, the incoming swash lifts and deposits them down the beach. Shorebirds and diving ducks commonly feed on sand crabs, but sand crabs appear to be a novel behavior and food source for Mallards. Previous surveys of beaches did not report foraging Mallards on regional beaches, whereas foraging Mallards were common in contemporary (recent) surveys and anecdotal reports. Observations of this potentially new behavior were separated by as much as 1,300 km, indicating that this was not a local phenomenon. Mallards foraged singly, in pairs, and in flocks. An expansion of diet to sand crabs carries risks of exposure to surf, human disturbance, high salt intake, and transmission of acanthocephalan and trematode parasites for Mallards but has the benefit of providing a dependable source of animal protein.
41933212|Japanese weasels (Mustela itatsi) artificially introduced to Miyake-jima Island, a peripheral island of Japan, in the early 1980s increased predation on bird nests. We investigated the breeding biology of Japanese Bush Warblers (Horornis diphone) before and after the weasel introduction. Nest height was higher after than before the introduction, while clutch size did not differ significantly between the periods. These results suggest that introduced carnivores affect not only nest predation but also the nest site selection of birds.
41933213|Nestling birds attract parental care with begging that often includes the display of colorful gapes and rictal flanges. The evolution of mouth coloration has been attributed to both the enhanced visual conspicuousness of colorful mouths and the potential for color variation to reveal information about nestling quality. For both hypotheses, the visual contrast between the gape and rictal flanges is potentially important to parents' perception of color. We observed, and then quantified with digital photography, striking within-tissue variation in the carotenoid-based coloration of rictal flanges in three passerine species. Yellow flange tissue was most saturated near the gape, indicating higher carotenoid deposition there than in more lateral regions of the tissue. This within-flange color patterning may have important visual consequences and could have evolved in the context of communication between offspring and parents.
41933214|Cinereous Warbling-Finch, Poospiza cinrea, is a poorly-known bird endemic to the Cerrado region and 'Vulnerable' to extinction. It has been suggested that this species may be nomadic because of its rarity and low density. We tested this suggestion throughout observations of two banded individuals in a 'campos rupestres' site at Serra do Cipo, state of Minas Gerais, Brazil. We also described some aspects of its natural history, including a preliminary estimation of the home range size. Estimated home ranges of the pair were 15.02 and 16.56 ha using two different methods. Home range comprises mainly rocky outcrops, with low-height vegetation, used for foraging on small arthropods. The pair showed year-round residency and long-term site fidelity for at least 3.5 years, thus contradicting the nomadism hypothesis.
24638424|A new highland species of chestnut-capped Arremon brush-finch is described from the Sierra Madre del Sur of central Guerrero. This form, although indistinguishable in external phenotype from adjacent populations to the east in Oaxaca, is dramatically differentiated in mitochondrial DNA sequence characters, and quite unexpectedly is the sister lineage to the very distinct (phenotype and genotype), central-Mexican-endemic A. virenticeps. Nuclear sequence differentiation in the new lineage is more subtle than in mitochondrial DNA, but is on par with that in the well-marked A. virenticeps. The new species is thus distinct from its sister lineage in genotype and phenotype, and clearly distinct from all other forms in genotype; however, it has retained an ancestral external phenotype similar to other members of the broader A. brunneinucha complex.
24638425|Geographic variation in morphology that develops among closely related populations can help drive genetic divergence, and eventually speciation, when those morphological traits are the basis for social interactions that influence reproduction. The North American Dark-eyed Junco (Junco hyemalis) complex is an interesting case in speciation. The numerous subspecies have distinct breeding ranges and unique plumage coloration, but based on the presence of hybrid populations and recent genetic data, can be considered to belong to a single species. Research within various populations of juncos has shown first, that wing length and the amount of white on the tail feathers ("tail white") influence an individual's dominance status and mating success, and second, that these traits can undergo rapid evolution when social and environmental conditions change. Here, I used museum specimens to examine tail white and body size, as measured by wing and tail length, of males and females within and among 13 geographically distinct Dark-eyed Junco subspecies. I documented geographic variation of mean values for each of these morphological traits, as well as patterns of trait co-variation and the degree of sexual dimorphism. I discuss these results in relation to what they may indicate about the generation and maintenance of divergence among the subspecies.
24638426|The natural history of many tropical bird species is poorly described, preventing more detailed studies of ecology, behavior, and evolution. For most sexually monochromatic tropical bird species, we lack field methodologies to categorize the sex of adults. In this study, we describe sex-based morphological differences of three monochromatic species in the genus Melozone: White-eared Ground-Sparrow, M. leucotis; Prevost's Ground-Sparrow, M. biarcuata; and Rusty-crowned Ground-Sparrow, M. kieneri. We collected six standard morphological measurements (tarsus length, tail length, wing chord length, culmen length, beak width, and beak depth) from live birds and museum specimens. We collected data from all recognized subspecies of the three Mesoamerican Melozone species. Morphological measurements capably distinguished males from females in all three species. In all cases, three or fewer morphological measurements were required to identify sex with accuracy levels that ranged from 75100%, well beyond the 50% expected by chance. Comparisons involving all six measurements yielded accuracies that ranged from 5893%. Our results provide the first field-based method for estimating the sex of individuals in this poorly studied genus of tropical birds. We recommend our findings be used to distinguish males from females in banding stations where Melozone ground-sparrow species occur.
24638427|Conservation strategies for declining species often are based on limited knowledge about how fecundity and survival may change across a species' range, and what factors may be limiting for a given population. Incomplete understanding of how a species' demography varies across a range of conditions may lead to inappropriate management decisions. Our objective was to compare demographic data from northern and southern extremes of the breeding range of Golden-winged Warblers (Vermivora chrysoptera). Specifically, we compared minimum estimates of annual adult survival, daily nest survival, fecundity, and population growth (lambda) for Tennessee and Ontario breeding populations. Tennessee nest survival decreased throughout the nesting season and as daily minimum temperature increased, but the constant survival model was equally supported (model averaged daily survival rate, DSR = 0.972 [0.01 SE]). Ontario nest survival also decreased throughout the nesting season, but not as a function of temperature (model averaged DSR = 0.956 [0.02 SE]). Despite larger clutch sizes and number of young fledged per successful nest in Ontario, fecundity estimates were greater for the Tennessee population. Males had greater annual survival than females in both Tennessee and Ontario populations (Tennessee male = 0.616 [0.11 SE], Tennessee female = 0.427 [0.12 SE], Ontario male = 0.618 [0.08 SE], and Ontario female = 0.477 [0.14 SE]). Minimum lambda estimates suggest that both populations were declining ( = 0.7468 and 0.7935 for Tennessee and Ontario, respectively). However, as with many mark-recapture studies of birds, we are unable to separate mortality from dispersal which likely biases these survival estimates. Further, annual survival is affected by events in the wintering and migratory periods and until these are known, we will be limited in our ability to effectively manage this and other declining Neotropical migratory songbirds.
24638428|Very little is known about the home range and movement patterns of tinamous. The Ornate Tinamou (Nothoprocta ornata), a species of the central Andes that is important for cynegetic and biomonitoring purposes, was previously reported to have a very small territory (2.43 ha). This was based solely on field observations. In order to gain a better understanding of the movement patterns, home range size, and home range overlap of this species, we radio tracked 12 adult individuals in an Andean agro-ecosystem for a full year. The birds remained within their home ranges all year; 100% MCP (minimum convex polygon) home ranges were 43.8  21.6 ha (2285 ha), 95% kernel home ranges were 58.8  31.9 ha (25118 ha) and 50% kernel core areas were 15.3  8.9 ha (633 ha). Only two birds, probably sub-adults, showed extensive movement patterns before their death. Individuals overlapped their home ranges extensively (from 3098% with 23 tagged individuals), but these values were probably higher because a small proportion of the population was tagged. No sexual differences were detected in home range size or overlap. Our results support the usefulness of Ornate Tinamou as a sentinel species in biomonitoring studies and highlight the need for further research into the philopatric and dispersion behavior of juveniles before planning cynegetic strategies.
24638429|North American grassland birds show long-term population declines that generally exceed the declines of other bird groups. Efforts to conserve grassland birds require knowledge of ecological and habitat requirements during both the breeding and nonbreeding periods of annual life cycles. Nonbreeding habitat associations may affect survival and the acquisition of resources needed for migration and breeding. We focused on the winter habitat associations of a suite of co-occurring grassland sparrows in the dry prairie of south-central Florida, an understudied region within the wintering range of Grasshopper Sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum pratensis) and Henslow's Sparrows (A. henslowii). During the nonbreeding winter months, these two migratory sparrows commingle with resident Bachman's Sparrows (Peucaea aestivalis) and federally endangered Florida Grasshopper Sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum floridanus). We investigated sparrow habitat associations within two defined plant communities of the dry prairie ecosystem, the dry-mesic and wet-mesic prairie, for four prescribed fire treatments over two consecutive winters. Grasshopper and Henslow's sparrows showed higher relative abundance in wet-mesic prairie and Bachman's Sparrows were more abundant in dry-mesic prairie across all fire treatments. Florida Grasshopper Sparrows were detected only in the first and second years post-burn; samples were too small to yield information on potential preferences between the two prairie communities evaluated. We used an information-theoretic approach to select models that best predicted abundances for each species (except Florida Grasshopper Sparrows) based on time since fire and plant community. Abundances of Grasshopper and Bachman's sparrows were best predicted by plant community association and secondly by time since fire; whereas for Henslow's Sparrows, habitat and time since fire were equally important. This is the first concurrent study of these four sparrow taxa in peninsular Florida and indicates that time since fire influences the habitat preferences exhibited by wintering sparrows, but that this role differs across co-occurring species and dry prairie plant communities.
24638430|All vertebrates must contend with an increase in oxidative stress during intense exercise. Birds, in particular, may be exposed to increased oxidative stress during long-distance migration, and dietary antioxidants are likely important in alleviating the deleterious effects associated with such a stressor. We evaluated whether fruit selection by birds at a migratory stopover site in southern New England was related to the antioxidant and macronutrient content of fruits from seven commonly consumed fall-fruiting shrub species. Our objectives were to: (1) quantify, for the first time, total hydrophilic and lipophilic antioxidants, as well as two types of lipophilic antioxidants (i.e., carotenoids, and tocopherols) in wild fruits consumed by migrating birds, (2) test the hypothesis that antioxidant content of wild fruits is related to macronutrient composition, and (3) relate patterns of avian frugivory to antioxidant availability and macronutrient content of wild fruits during autumn migration. We found significant differences between fruits in total lipophilic antioxidants, carotenoids, and tocopherols, but not total hydrophilic antioxidants. Viburnum spp. and Myrica pennsylvanica had the most lipophilic antioxidants and tocopherols, whereas Celastrus orbiculatus and Rosa multiflora contained the most carotenoids. Carotenoid content was positively correlated with protein content but no significant relationships were evident between the other antioxidants and macronutrients. Fruit consumption was negatively correlated with carotenoid content and was not related to any other antioxidant measure. Interestingly, the most consumed fruit species, arrowwood, was among the highest in fat, total lipophilic antioxidants, and tocopherols. These data indicate that antioxidant content differs significantly between fruit species and suggest that (1) birds can acquire different types of antioxidants depending on the fruits they select and (2) lipophilic antioxidants, especially tocopherols, may be important antioxidants for birds during autumn migration.
24638431|We investigated the influence of Old World bluestem (Bothriochloa ischaemum; OWB) monocultures on grassland bird abundance through analysis of vegetation structure and food availability. We compared breeding bird density, vegetation structure and composition, and arthropod biomass between six native grass and six OWB fields in the southern Great Plains. The OWB fields supported 1.70  0.27 (mean  SE) Grasshopper Sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum) per ha compared to 0.95  0.25 in native grass fields, but total species richness was greater in native grass fields (40 versus 28 species). Density of some bird species was correlated with vegetation structure regardless of field type, suggesting that management practices may be more influential than plant species composition. Mean arthropod biomass was 3.39 greater in native grass fields than in OWB monocultures. Native grass fields provided habitat for a larger complement of birds than did OWB monocultures, and reduced food availability in OWB fields suggests a mechanism for that difference.
24638432|Parental roles in nestling provisioning and composition of prey brought to nestlings are not well-studied for North American woodpeckers (Picidae). We studied nestling diets and the role of adult Hairy (Picoides villosus) and White-headed woodpeckers (Picoides albolarvatus) in provisioning nestlings and nest sanitation during 20092011 in managed ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests, Cascade Range, Washington, USA. Male White-headed Woodpeckers removed fecal material from cavities more frequently than females; a difference we did not observe between sexes in Hairy Woodpeckers. Male and female White-headed Woodpeckers, and female Hairy Woodpeckers, fed significantly more small (beak closed when holding prey) than large prey (beak unable to close when holding prey) to nestlings. We did not find differences in provisioning rates by sex of the parent, by nestling age, or by date of provisioning trip for either species. Morisita's Index (C) of diet overlap showed a large similarity in the nestling diets of Hairy and White-headed woodpeckers (C = 0.81), and dietary niche breadth was low for both species. Of the prey we identified, larvae of wood-boring beetles (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae and Buprestidae) were most frequently fed to nestlings by both species. White-headed Woodpeckers fed caterpillars (Lepidoptera) and winged prey to nestlings more often than Hairy Woodpeckers. The diet of Hairy Woodpecker nestlings did not change appreciably over the nesting season, with wood-boring beetle larvae having the highest relative frequency for most of the breeding period. In contrast, relative frequency of wood-boring beetle larvae in the diet of White-headed Woodpecker nestlings declined toward the end of the breeding period as the relative frequency of caterpillars increased. Our results suggest that both sexes of these woodpeckers contribute equally to nestling provisioning.
24638433|Manakins are prominent fruit-eaters and seed dispersers in the Neotropics. Most manakin species establish lek areas where males devote long periods of time displaying to attract mates, interspersed with brief absences to feed on fruits located near lek areas. We compared the frequency of visits to plants, fruit handling behavior, and number of fruits ingested by the lek-forming Manacus manacus (White-bearded Manakin) and species of non-lekking birds in two species of fruiting trees (Miconia rigidiuscula and Ocotea pulchella) in lek and non-lek areas during the lek and non-lek periods of M. manacus in a threatened Atlantic forest ecosystem. During the non-lek season, M. manacus and non-lekking birds did not differ in the frequency of visits to Miconia trees near lek and non-lek areas. However, M. manacus swallowed a higher number of fruits near leks than non-lekking birds, while the opposite was true in non-lek areas. During the lek season, M. manacus visited Ocotea trees more frequently and swallowed more fruits than non-lekking birds in lek areas. No birds were recorded on Ocotea trees in non-lek areas. This study provides an example of context dependence in the quantity component of seed dispersal effectiveness in which the lek breeding system of a frugivorous species influences the identity of seed removers and the quantity of seeds removed in and around lek areas.
24638434|North American wood-warblers (Parulidae) are well known for exhibiting two distinct singing modes: first category song, in which a single song type is sung repeatedly, usually before dawn, and second category song, in which several song types are sung in irregular sequence. Studies suggest that first category song types have higher performance characteristics and that second category song types are shared preferentially among territorial neighbors. Here we present the first formal description of two-category singing in the Pine Warbler (Setophaga pinus). Similar to other species in the genus Setophaga, Pine Warblers produce second category song before dawn and first category song primarily during daylight hours. First category songs also had significantly higher trill rates, suggesting that they are more challenging to perform. Unlike many congeners, however, Pine Warblers regularly alternate between first and second category singing throughout the day, and first category song types often appear intermixed in second category singing, including singing before dawn. Furthermore, comparisons among territorial males showed that individuals do not share song types more with neighbors than with non-neighbors. Our results suggest that Pine Warblers have two song categories similar to other Setophaga warblers, but singing patterns in this species differ from congeners in interesting ways that warrant further investigation.
24638435|Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) are experiencing widespread population declines. Knowing the relative contribution of predator species to overall rates of nest predation of Wood Thrushes, and understanding how the thrushes are affected by temporal and landscape factors, may be important elements in choosing and devising effective management strategies. We used miniature video cameras to identify nest predators of Wood Thrushes in a highly fragmented landscape in Ontario. Eleven species of birds and mammals were recorded as nest predators. Birds accounted for almost twice as many predation events as mammals, and three species  Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater), Cooper's Hawk (Accipiter cooperii), and raccoon (Procyon lotor)  accounted for the majority. Species such as American Crow (Corvus brachyrynchos), Blue Jay (Cyanocitta cristata), eastern gray squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis), and Common Grackle (Quiscalus quiscula) that are often speculated to be important nest predators in agricultural and suburban landscapes contributed little or nothing to overall predation rates. We tested hypotheses concerning effects of nest stage, time of nesting season, forest size, forest cover, urban housing pressure, and prior predation events at a nest on the probability of nest predation. Our models showed only two of these factors to be significant: prior predation at a nest increased the chance of a subsequent predation event and increasing the measure of urban pressure reduced the chance of a predation event. The many alternate and easy food sources associated with humans might divert the attention of potential predators from nesting birds in urban forests.
24638436|Spruce Grouse (Falcipennis canadensis) are listed as threatened in Wisconsin, and the boreal habitats in which they occur are likely to be threatened by changing climatic conditions. However, the limited information available on Spruce Grouse in the Upper Great Lakes region makes it unclear which habitat features are important for Spruce Grouse nesting in Wisconsin. We radiotracked 30 female Spruce Grouse in northern Wisconsin from 20072012 and located 25 nests. Eighteen of 25 nests were beneath black spruce (Picea mariana) trees. Only three nests were in upland, and only one in a stand of jack pines (Pinus banksiana), in contrast to studies from Michigan and Ontario. Overall concealment was a good predictor of nest sites for Spruce Grouse, but not a good predictor of nest survival. Nest survival was associated with moderately dense and uniform 00.5 m lateral vegetation cover. Seventeen of 25 nests were successful, with a daily survival rate of 0.985, overall productivity of 1.0 young/female, and 1.9 young/successful nest. Annual survival of adult males was estimated at 54%, adult females at 40%, and juvenile survival at 14% and 24% by two different methods. Estimates of  of 0.65 and 0.67 suggest a declining population, but the upper confidence limit exceeds 1, not ruling out a stable or slightly increasing population. Protecting black spruce swamps will protect important nesting habitat for Spruce Grouse in Wisconsin.
24638437|We describe the nest-site characteristics and breeding habitat use of Kelp Geese (Chloephaga hybrida) and Flightless Steamer-Ducks (Tachyeres pteneres) along 137 km of coastline on the northern shore of the Beagle Channel, Argentina, and 87 km of island coastline. We examined the importance of vegetation cover, predation, and tourism on the distribution of nests among islands. We found all nests only on islands and islets. Nesting sites for both species were strongly associated with higher proportions of high vegetation cover (shrubs). Kelp Geese were also associated with the absence of terrestrial predators. Tourist presence on islands was not associated with the occurrence of nests for either species. The northern coasts of the Beagle Channel and the islands and islets along the channel have similar habitat types. However, the islands and islets are relatively inaccessible to mammalian terrestrial predators compared to the coast of the channel where terrestrial predators are frequently recorded. Therefore, islands and islets seem to provide a relatively safe nesting habitat for Kelp Geese and Flightless Steamer-Ducks by offering refuge mainly from ground predators. Additionally, habitat changes caused by increased human disturbance along the northern shore of the Beagle Channel may also explain the presence of nests only on islands and islets, though further studies are needed to assess these effects. This study contributes new information on the breeding habitat and nesting sites of Flightless Steamer-Ducks and Kelp Geese in the Beagle Channel, to assist in the identification of priority breeding sites and habitats to protect. Also, it highlights the importance of islands and islets of the Beagle Channel as safe breeding refuge for these two ground nesting seabirds.
24638438|The Coal-crested Finch (Charitospiza eucosma) is a rare, globally near threatened and poorly known species, endemic to the savannas of central Brazil and Bolivia. We investigated this species' breeding biology in the Brazilian savannas between 20082010. We found 44 nests of Coal-crested Finches during one and a half breeding seasons. Coal-crested Finches reproduced in two discrete peaks within the rainy season (i.e., bimodal breeding). Nests were cup-shaped and built on trees with a mean height of 2.18  1.34 m (n = 42). Modal clutch size was 2 (range = 13). Eggs averaged 16.32  1.16 mm (length; n = 46), 11.30  1.06 mm (width; n = 46) and 1.40  0.14 g (mass; n = 44). Incubation and nestling periods lasted on average 13.4  0.42 days (n = 5) and 12.0  2.63 days (n = 7), respectively. Young (04 days old), middle-aged (59 days old) and late nestlings (1013 days old) weighed from 1.256.35 g (n = 10), from 5.3012.65 g (n = 12) and from 911.90 g (n = 9), respectively. Estimated nesting success was 20.08% (n = 38). The Coal-crested Finch has similarities (e.g., nest material, clutch size, eggs, nestling period, nestlings and nesting success) and differences (e.g., nest structure, nest sites, incubation period, breeding season) with other Neotropical finches. We suggest that their bimodal breeding season may have evolved in response to two annual peaks of food resource abundance: arthropods followed by grass seeds.
24638439|The O'ahu 'Elepaio (Chasiempis ibidis) is an endangered monarch flycatcher endemic to the Hawaiian Island of O'ahu. Current information on abundance, distribution, and population trend is needed to help assess the species status and identify areas where conservation efforts can be focused. We used spot-mapping methods with song playbacks to conduct surveys in the Ko'olau Mountains from 20112012, and we used occupancy sampling with repeated visits to estimate detection probability. We detected 545 male and 317 female O'ahu 'Elepaio. The detection probability of males was 0.92  0.03 and that of females was 0.86  0.05, yielding corrected estimates of 592 males (95% CI = 554630) and 369 females (95% CI = 327411). Combined with results of a previous census in the Wai'anae Mountains that found 192 males and 84 females, the total estimated population of the species is 1,261 birds (95% CI = 1,2051,317), consisting of about 477 breeding pairs and 307 single males. The O'ahu 'Elepaio has declined in abundance by about 50% since the 1990s, when the population was estimated to be about 1,974 birds. The current geographic range of the O'ahu 'Elepaio encompassed about 5,187 ha and has declined by 75% since 1975, becoming fragmented into four larger subpopulations with 100 or more birds each and 12 smaller subpopulations. Rat control to reduce nest predation remains the cornerstone of the conservation strategy for the O'ahu 'Elepaio, but variation in forest structure, forest dynamics, and continuing evolution of 'elepaio nesting behavior are likely to play important roles in determining whether this species can persist.
24638440|We present the first breeding records of Nonggang Babbler (Stachyris nonggangensis), a newly described bird species found in the limestone area of southwestern Guangxi, in southern China in 2008. The records presented here include information on behavior, nest, egg, incubation, and reproductive success rate. We discovered six nests (including three active nests) through systematic checking and radio tracking. Most Nonggang Babblers were found to begin foraging in pairs (male and female) from mid to late March. They build their nests in April. The nests were placed in cavities in a limestone cliff or on a massive rock located on the mountainside at altitudes ranging from 206323 m. The nests were made of aerial roots, leaves, twigs, and soft grasses. Nonggang Babblers would lay 45 pure white eggs with an average fresh weight of 4.80  0.11 g. Female Nonggang Babblers would spend 74.5  5.0% of the day incubating their eggs, and the incubation period would last >18 days. We propose that Nonggang Babblers could prolong the incubation period and reduce foraging time to enhance the survival rate of fledglings. The high nest predation rate is an important limiting factor for the population growth of Nonggang Babblers.
24638441|I describe the feeding habits of Ramphastos toco (Toco Toucan) in relation to fruit abundance and diversity in a variety of habitat types in central Brazil. I traversed transects to sample fruit production and toucans that were feeding in four habitat types: two wet (streams and river) and two dry (cerrado and deciduous forest). Fruit abundance exhibited substantial temporal and spatial variability in which dry habitats provided fruits to toucans mainly in the dry season; the same occurred in the wet habitats during the rainy season. As a result, toucans experienced similar fruit diversity between seasons, while feeding niche breadth exhibited high values all year. The variable spatial and temporal fruiting patterns reflected differences among the vegetation of the four habitat types, and floristic variations between related sites as well. The data emphasize the importance of the peculiarities of a given site within a habitat mosaic and which should be included in conservation plans for declining species.
24638442|Recent experiments support the long-standing hypothesis that Common Cuckoos (Cuculus canorus) are mimics of Eurasian Sparrowhawks (Accipiter nisus). Additional experiments further suggest that mimicry benefits the cuckoos by reducing the intensity of mobbing they suffer near host nests, at least in some host populations, potentially increasing their access to the hosts' nests. We observed two species of birdsone very rarely parasitized and the other never parasitized by cuckoosresponding to a cuckoo as they would a bird of prey. On the island of land, Sweden, we observed two instances of a gray phase cuckoo being mobbed by a group of Barn Swallows (Hirundo rustica) during the non-breeding season. These mobbing observations cannot be explained as a consequence of selection in the context of brood parasitism, because swallows are extremely rare cuckoo hosts and should not show co-evolutionary responses to parasitism. Instead, the swallows appear to have mistaken the cuckoos for Eurasian Sparrowhawks and responded as they would to true hawks. Similar observations were made in California, where a vagrant Common Cuckoo repeatedly elicited alarm calls from Bushtits (Psaltriparus minimus), a species completely allopatric with cuckoos and thus with no evolutionary history of brood parasitism. Because Eurasian Sparrowhawks visually resemble related North American bird-eating Accipiter hawks in plumage and flight characteristics, the cuckoo likely triggered a general Accipiter response in the Bushtits. Together, these observations provide additional evidence that cuckoos successfully mimic Eurasian Sparrowhawks and that such mimicry comes not only with benefits to the cuckoos, but costs as well.
24638443|Nestling growth may be used to estimate age of nestling raptors, which is valuable for investigating hatch order dynamics and nestling behavior, as well as assessing reproductive rate and back-calculating hatching date. To estimate nestling age, the most valuable parameter to measure growth is one that does not vary greatly with environmental factors, and ideally is applicable over a wide range of populations. We measured growth of nestling Red-shouldered Hawks (Buteo lineatus) in Quebec, Canada, from ages 3 days to near fledging (38 days old), and compared growth of several parameters in different size broods. As a validation study, we measured similar parameters one time in known-age nestling Red-shouldered Hawks in southwestern Ohio. Growth rates for tarsus length, bill length, and tail length differed between nestlings in broods of one and three young, respectively, in Quebec. However, mass gain and growth of secondary feathers (mean length of first and second secondaries) did not differ between brood sizes, although mass gain was more variable than secondary growth. These results suggested that secondary feather length was the most valuable parameter for estimating nestling age in Red-shouldered Hawks. Comparing Ohio nestlings to Quebec nestlings, we found that growth of secondary feathers differed significantly, with Ohio nestlings having smaller secondary length, relative to age estimate. Application of the equation generated with the Quebec data to estimate the age of the Ohio nestlings based on secondary length resulted in estimates that were 2.3  0.3 days (range 0.254.5 days; n = 22) younger than the Ohio nestlings' actual ages. Based on this validation study, we suggest that the use of the Quebec age-secondary length equation to estimate age for nestling Red-shouldered Hawks in other parts of eastern North America is acceptable, though with the caveat that such estimates are associated with potential small errors.
24638444|Here we present recent accounts of Kirtland's Warblers (Setophaga kirtlandii) captured and observed on San Salvador Island, The Bahamas, in 2012 and 2013. We conducted mist-netting and passive surveys in a variety of habitats on the island from JanuaryMarch 2012 and December 2012March 2013. We captured four warblers and sighted at least six other individuals, including two color-banded birds originally banded near Mack Lake, Michigan, USA. Warblers were primarily captured or observed in coastal scrub and inland low coppice habitats where vegetation height is <4 m, has a scrub/shrub appearance, and openings because of disturbance. These habitats are similar to habitats preferred by Kirtland's Warblers on other Bahamian islands, and also have fruiting plants the warblers prefer such as Erithalis fruticosa, and Lantana involucrata. To our knowledge, these are the first confirmed cases of observed Kirtland's Warblers on the island in over 46 years.
24638445|Red-bellied Woodpeckers (Melanerpes carolinus) feed primarily on arthropods and plant matter, but a growing body of evidence suggests that Red-bellied Woodpeckers may also be a common passerine nest predator. Cerulean Warblers are the fastest declining Neotropical migratory wood warbler in North America. We report our observations of a Red-bellied Woodpecker depredating a nestling Cerulean Warbler (Setophaga cerulea) in Indiana. Further suggesting their status as a recognized nest predator, we also report agonistic behavior of a different Cerulean Warbler pair toward a Red-bellied Woodpecker foraging near the warblers' fledglings. Red-bellied Woodpeckers may be a more common nest predator of Cerulean Warblers than currently recognized, but further research is needed.
24638446|Feather sampling is often assumed to be harmless, but this assumption has not been tested. From 20082012, we recorded the behavior of 340 Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) chicks following the removal of a pinch of body feathers. Only 11.2% of these chicks ran after sampling and 69.4% showed no visible reaction to sampling. The probability of a chick running away increased with age. We therefore recommend that sampling be conducted as soon as possible after juvenal feathers emerge. There was evidence for individual differences in behavior: approximately 71% of chicks that ran after feather sampling alos ran away when re-encountered on later dates, while other chicks rarely did so. We found no evidence that removal of feather samples increased chick mortality, supporting the assumption that this technique is minimally invasive, but small differences in mortality rates would have been difficult to detect.
24638447|In this study, we evaluated the interspecific agonistic responses of raptors and non-raptors, elicited by the presence of five raptor species (Circus cinereus, C. buffoni, Rupornis magnirostris, Elanus leucurus, and Geranoaetus melanoleucus) in the Pampas region of Argentina. We registered 62 agonistic interaction events, most of them involving two raptor species (58%). During these events we registered 122 attacks, 10 persecutions, and three cases of kleptoparasitism. Milvago chimango was the most important aggressor species among raptors, and Vanellus chilensis among non-raptor birds. Attacks in groups were more frequently performed by non-raptors (61.5% of the events involved two or more aggressor individuals) than by raptors (68.5% of the events involved only one aggressor). This study represents a primary approach to one scarcely explored aspect of raptor behavior in southern South America.
24638448|The Long-earned Owl (Asio otus) is a widely distributed predator with plastic foraging habits. Its diet has been studied across most of Europe and North America, but little information is available on intra-seasonal diet variation. We studied the winter diet of Long-eared Owls in a Mediterranean fragmented farmland. Diet was dominated by small mammals (mostly Apodemus spp.), with birds the second most abundant group. In our landscape, the amount of bird prey items in the diet was higher compared to values reported from other areas of Italy. There was relatively large variation in the diet among the three months of study. Our study confirms the pattern of higher Long-eared Owl diet diversity in a Mediterranean landscape compared to that reported for other regions of Europe where the diversity of prey species may be lower. The findings suggest that extensively-managed Mediterranean rural landscapes can provide habitat suitable for the Long-eared Owl, as they offer a wide diversity of food sources that may be exploited by this nocturnal predator.
24638449|We sampled blue crab (Callinectes sapidus) numbers in marshes on the Aransas National Wildlife Refuge, Texas from 19982006, while simultaneously censusing the wintering population of Whooping Cranes (Grus americana) on the refuge and surrounding habitats. This was done to determine whether mortality of wintering Whooping Cranes was related to the availability of this food source. Yearly variation in crab numbers was high, ranging from a low of 0.1 crabs to a high of 3.4 crabs per 100-m transect section. Significant non-linear increases in both juvenile and adult mortality in relation to decreasing crab abundance was observed. Results suggest that some threshold of crab abundance exists in which Whooping Cranes have higher survival on their wintering grounds.
24638450|Microbates cinereiventris is a poly-typic and widely distributed species. Its reproductive behavior is only known based on the description of a single nest. Here, we present the first description of the eggs and nest of the subspecies M. cinereiventris peruvianus and the first description of the nestlings, feeding, and incubation behavior for the species. M. cinereiventris peruvianus has an open nest, primarily made of dry plant fibers and green moss. Nest attentiveness was 92.31  0.20%, and a total of eight trips were recorded during the last 2 days of incubation. Nestlings hatched naked, were fed 1.58  0.89 times per hour by both parents, and grew at a rate of 0.83 g per day during the first 5 days. M. cinereiventris share nesting characteristics with closely related species (M. collaris and Ramphocaenus melanurus).
24638451|We describe nests, eggs, and some breeding aspects of the Rusty-margined Guan (Penelope superciliaris) and Speckled Chachalaca (Ortalis guttata) in the Atlantic Rainforest of northeastern Brazil. Two active nests of P. superciliaris were found, the first was 50 cm above the ground and the second was 2.6 m. Both were bowl shaped and had three and two eggs, respectively. One egg from each nest was measured and weighed: 64.3  42.1 mm (61.5 g) and 55.5  38.0 mm (42.5 g). An active nest of O. guttata was found 3.2 m high on top of a tree. Initially, there was a single egg in the nest but two more were laid. The average egg measurements and weight were 55.0  38.4 mm and 43.3 g. The eggs of both species were rather similar with a dull white color, rough shell, and smeared with organic matter from the nest. We observed an incubation period of 2930 days for the chachalaca, which was longer than previous estimates of this species. The guan nests were found in an advanced stage of development, which prevented accurate tracking of their incubation periods. Although the primary social reproductive strategy in most cracids is monogamy, it is possible that P. superciliaris is polygynous in our study area, justifying the absence of a male near the nest or even a nest territory.
24638452|I describe the nest of the Hooded Berryeater (Carpornis cucullata), an endemic of the Atlantic Forest of southeast Brazil. On the basis of observations of six nests, three main types of nest placement were identified: (1) nests supported by forks, (2) nest totally supported by a single horizontal branch, and (3) nests erected at the base of the dense mass of stems growing from bamboo nodes. All six nests were structurally similar, with several twigs forming a superficial web, which constituted the surface of the incubatory chamber. Below and around this web, there was a loose to dense layer of supporting thicker sticks. The six nests also had in common the presence of a flexible liana-like fern, which lined the nests' external margin in a variable degree. In some respects, the nest of the Hooded Berryeater is similar to the nest of the congeneric Black-headed Berryeater (C. melanocephala), though they differ conspicuously in that the latter is mostly composed of large, dry leaves in the lower layer.
24638453|We describe a hybrid between the Amazonian Motmot (Momotus momota) and the Rufous-capped Motmot (Baryphthengus ruficapillus), collected in northern Gois, Brazil. In some characters (e.g., shape of the tail and facial mask) the hybrid is similar to B. ruficapillus, in others (e.g., measures and amount of blue in the plumage) it is intermediate between the two parents, and in others (e.g., color of the underparts) it is unlike any of them. Photographs document the occurrence of hybrids in two additional localities in Gois. Complexity of the genetic control of plumage color in birds may explain the hybrid's characters, and rarity of B. ruficapillus may be a factor leading to hybridization between these species. This is the first known case of intergeneric hybridization in the Coraciiformes.
24640483|Enhanced vigilance against predation is often an advantage of living in groups, but most studies have not examined individual-specific variation in the propensity to be vigilant among the animals within a group. We studied vigilance at the nest in colonially nesting Cliff Swallows (Petrochelidon pyrrhonota) in southwestern Nebraska in 2011 and 2012, and asked whether differences among individuals were consistent over time, whether vigilance varied among different colonies, and whether there were positive or negative fitness consequences of different levels of vigilance. We found significant among-individual variation in extent of vigilance and some variation among different colony sites. Vigilance also varied with date and nesting stage, but other phenotypic characteristics of a bird had no effect on vigilance. Differences among individuals in vigilance were not strongly related to their reproductive success that season, but more vigilant individuals were more likely to attempt intrusions into their neighbors' nests. Vigilance at the nest may be partly directed at monitoring conspecifics' activities in neighboring nests. This study is among the few that have investigated individual variation in vigilance behavior, a possible index of personality for Cliff Swallows, and the first to measure variation in vigilance for a colonial bird while breeding.
24640484|Dispersal decisions of songbirds are relatively well understood between breeding seasons, but far less is known about dispersal between nesting attempts and during the molting period. There are several non-mutually exclusive hypotheses for why birds disperse during breeding and molt including: (1) avoiding predation, (2) because of depleted resources, or (3) seeking higher quality habitat. In this study, we evaluated the above hypotheses by radio-tracking a Neotropical migrant, the Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina), during breeding and molt. During breeding, 30% (7/23) of females moved territories within-season. Females were not more likely to move off-territory following nest predation, and dispersing females were not in poorer nutritional state than non-dispersing females prior to the move. However, females occupying nest sites with large trees, high canopy height and percent canopy cover, and low percent ground cover were more likely to move off-territory for their second nest to sites with few large trees, a low canopy height and cover, and high percent ground cover. During the molting period, 61% (28/46) of birds moved off-territory to molt. Molting areas were associated with more shrubs and fruiting trees compared with breeding territories. There were no sex or age effects as to whether a bird molted on or off their breeding territory. We suggest that off-territory movements during the nesting period are to seek more suitable nesting vegetation, rather than specifically avoiding predation or because of reduced resource availability. This study has additionally shown that, without radio-telemetry, detecting off-territory movements during breeding is difficult and neglecting to include these movements may result in an underestimation of annual productivity.
24640485|Nest predation and brood parasitism likely cause declines in many songbird species, yet the rate of these declines varies among species. Simultaneously studying co-occurring species with overlapping territories provides an opportunity to identify differences among the species that may explain differential reproductive success. We monitored nests of three co-occurring songbird species to determine whether the federally endangered Black-capped Vireo (Vireo atricapilla) experienced lower reproductive success than Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis) and White-eyed Vireos (V. griseus) on private lands with and without trapping of brood parasites. We assessed if habitat metrics and nesting phenology were associated with nest success and frequency of brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) to determine if these characteristics explain poor reproductive success. We monitored 188 nests in shrubland and ecotones with woodlands in central Texas from 20062008. We found species-specific differences in nest success and brood parasitism, year effects, and differential impacts of cowbird trapping. Black-capped Vireos nesting in locations without cowbird trapping experienced the lowest daily survival rate of nests (0.86) and period nest survival (0.01), whereas estimates in locations with cowbird trapping were similar to the other species (0.93 for daily and 0.11 for period nest survival). Nest initiation date was important for predicting brood parasitism, showing high probability of brood parasitism in the middle of the breeding season and low probability during the beginning and end of the season. Habitat metrics were not good predictors of nest success or brood parasitism. Management for conservation of Black-capped Vireos focused on vegetation manipulation may not increase reproductive success in the absence of cowbird trapping in some areas of the breeding range, because daily survival rate of nests was associated with cowbird trapping but not habitat metrics.
24640486|Breeding biology information, including nest survival estimates, are lacking for many nesting species in Puerto Rico. We studied the endemic Puerto Rican Bullfinch (Loxigilla portoricensis), and modeled daily nest survival to better understand the effects of several factors on daily nest survival. In 2009 and 2010 we monitored 37 bullfinch nests at two sites in southwestern Puerto Rico. Predation was the most important cause of nest failure. Ten nest survival models received approximately equal support. No temporal trends in nest survival were supported over others. Results suggested that available fruit is important for successful nesting, increased precipitation is related to higher nest survival, nest survival varied by site, and increased nest height is related to lower nest survival in bullfinches. Under the top model, daily nest survival rates for each site and nest stage ranged from 0.830.86% in 2009 and 0.800.93% in 2010. This information on nest survival and factors that influence it increases our understanding of the breeding biology of the bullfinch, and will ultimately help inform future studies and conservation efforts in southwestern Puerto Rico.
24640487|Populations of shrub-breeding birds are declining in eastern North America, and loss of habitat has been implicated in these declines. Seasonal use of habitat by shrub-breeding birds in the southeastern US remains understudied despite the fact that it is well documented that species resident within a region can shift habitat use dramatically between seasons. To better understand year-round habitat occupancy by shrub-breeding birds, we conducted bird counts and vegetation surveys during summer and winter 20082009 within Tuskegee National Forest, Alabama. We used multi-season occupancy models to examine use of habitat and to contrast seasonal occupancy patterns of four species of resident shrub-breeding birdsBrown Thrashers (Toxostoma rufum), Eastern Towhees (Pipilo erythrophthalmus), Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis) and Carolina Wrens (Thryothorus ludovicianus). Brown Thrashers and Eastern Towhees are partially migratorymeaning some populations have separate breeding and wintering areaswhereas Carolina Wrens and Northern Cardinals are non-migratory. All four species showed seasonal changes in use of habitat between summer and winter, and all species were associated with both vegetation structure and certain types of cover. Further, partially migratory shrub-breeding species had greater site-turnover and increases in occupancy between summer and winter than nonmigratory species. Our results suggest that: (1) management actions based on breeding habitat requirements will likely not create suitable winter habitat, and (2) management of resident shrub-breeding birds will require not only the creation and maintenance of certain types of cover, but also certain structural aspects of vegetation within habitats.
24640488|Many studies have suggested that early successional habitats are important for fall migrant and resident birds. In light of this, we studied habitat relationships, preferred fruiting shrub species, and fruit consumption by birds in early successional habitats during the fall at Iroquois National Wildlife Refuge, Alabama, New York, USA. We used transects to count birds in 12 shrub and 6 early successional forest sites during 20082009, and collected data to construct habitat models. We examined frugivory using a paired open/enclosed fruit branch experiment and by analyzing fecal samples of birds captured in mist nets. More fall songbirds were detected in shrublands than in forests across the 2 years, although forests with well-developed understories also had high detection levels. Total bird abundance was positively related to fruiting species richness and negatively related to small woody stem (0.02.5 cm) abundance. Abundance of American Robins (Turdus migratorius) was positively related to total shrub cover and fruit abundance on common buckthorns (Rhamnus cathartica), and negatively related to small and large (2.58.0 cm) stem abundance. Abundance of Gray Catbirds (Dumetella carolinensis) was positively related to fruiting shrub species richness. Abundance of Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) was positively related to gray dogwood (Cornus racemosa) fruit abundance, and negatively related to small stem abundance and bella honeysuckle (Lonicera  bella) fruit abundance. Fecal analysis suggested that birds as a whole disproportionately consumed fruit species relative to availability, and consumed more bella honeysuckle and common buckthorn than gray dogwood. Fewer fruits remained on open branches than enclosed branches, suggesting birds actively consumed fruits at our sites. Our results suggest that fall migrant and resident songbirds as a whole benefit more from mature shrublands that contain a diversity of fruiting shrub species than from early successional forests. While these characteristics may benefit the suite of fall migrants and residents at our location, appropriate habitat management may differ for other locations or migratory species.
24640489|Grassland birds are declining at an alarming rate and habitat limitation on the wintering grounds may play a major role in population declines. In an attempt to understand habitat needs and constraints of grassland bird species on their wintering grounds, we conducted the first-ever telemetry study to document the movements of a wintering grassland passerine bird in grasslands of the Chihuahuan Desert in northern Mexico. We attached radio-transmitters to 99 Vesper Sparrows in January of 2009 and 2010 and tracked them for up to 51 days. We estimated vegetation characteristics at foraging, roosting and random locations. We used kernel density estimators of the utilization distribution for each individual sparrow to estimate home range size. We found differences in average home range size between 2009 and 2010 (108.46  36.43 ha and 30.91  4.74 ha, respectively). Home ranges showed high levels of intraspecific overlap, with average pairwise overlap of 0.41, 0.70 and 0.79 among individuals at three study sites, as measured by the Bhattacharyya's affinity. Grasses and shrubs were shorter in foraging locations than in random sites within Vesper Sparrow core habitat, but we found no differences in grass cover and shrub cover. We suggest that movements of Vesper Sparrows are mostly limited to <1 km during the winter and hypothesize that these movements are subject to constraints by food limitation and predation.
24640490|Grassland bird species frequently respond to habitat characteristics at multiple spatial scales when selecting nest sites. The Western Burrowing Owl (Athene cunicularia hypugaea) is a grassland bird species of conservation concern across much of its range, but most studies of its habitat needs have been restricted to relatively small geographical areas and have not integrated multiple spatial scales. Our study examined habitat characteristics at three spatial scaleslocal (near the burrow), colony, and landscapeacross western South Dakota. We searched for Burrowing Owls in 107 prairie dog colonies from May to August 2011. We located nest burrows in owl-occupied colonies, and we randomly selected non-nest burrows in colonies that were not occupied by owls for comparison. We collected data for local habitat variables in the field. Ground truthing and aerial imagery were used to calculate colony and landscape variables. We used logistic regression to identify variables that impacted nest site selection. Variables at multiple scales were important, with percent tree cover within 800 m of the burrow and visual obstruction at the burrow having the greatest effect on nest site selection. Burrowing Owls in western South Dakota were most likely to nest in landscapes with little tree cover, perhaps to avoid large avian predators associated with trees. At the local scale, Burrowing Owls were most likely to nest in regions of prairie dog colonies with relatively low visual obstruction. Burrowing Owls may benefit from prairie dogs maintaining vegetation at a short height, which allows the owls to easily detect prey and predators. Maintaining active prairie dog colonies in open landscapes across western South Dakota and preventing the establishment of trees near prairie dog colonies is necessary to ensure preferred breeding habitat remains for Burrowing Owls.
24640491|Mexican Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis lucida) occupy forest-dominated environments but also inhabit rocky canyonlands. I studied the owls' diet in canyon habitats in southern Utah and northern Arizona (19912007), and in mixed-conifer forest in the Rincon Mountains of southeast Arizona (19961997). I identified 3,315 prey items in regurgitated pellets from 38 pairs of owls in canyon habitat, and 383 prey items from 5 pairs in the Rincon Mountains. In canyons and forests, vertebrates dominated owl diets (9799% of total prey biomass) with mammals accounting for 91 92% of prey biomass. In canyons, mammalian prey was primarily woodrats (Neotoma spp., 79% biomass), followed by white-footed mice (Peromyscus spp., 11%), and cottontail rabbits (Sylvilagus spp., 5%). In forest habitat, woodrats comprised 54% of biomass, followed by Botta's pocket gophers (Thomomys bottae, 13%), and cottontail rabbits (11%). For nine owl territories in three canyon regions in Utah, diets varied among the owl pairs with contribution to total prey biomass by woodrats ranging from 6591%, typically followed by white-footed mice ranging from 1319%. In both canyon and forest study areas, a variety of prey were consumed in addition to murids, including rabbits, pocket gophers, sciurids (Tamias spp.), heteromyids (e.g., Perognathus spp.), various bats (Vespertilionidae), shrews (Sorex spp.), small passerine birds, and numerous arthropods.
24640492|We report on the breeding biology of the White-throated Woodcreeper (Xiphocolaptes albicollis), a species endemic to the Atlantic forest of South America, based on 16 nesting attempts in 11 cavities (9 natural tree cavities and 2 nest boxes) in Misiones, northeastern Argentina. Natural cavities were 3.38.3 cm in diameter and 46103 cm in depth, and generated by decay processes (not woodpeckers) at heights of 317 m in live trees 29106 cm in diameter at breast height. White-throated Woodcreepers laid 24 eggs on alternate days, on a bed comprised of bark flakes, leaf fragments and seed pods. Incubation bouts (n = 3) were more than 1 hr 40 mins. Incubation lasted 17 days and the nestling period 1822 days, shorter than the congeneric Great Rufous Woodcreeper (Xiphocolaptes major). Both adults brought nest material, incubated the eggs, fed the nestlings, and removed fecal sacs; however, we suspect that the male contributed more to fecal sac removal. Both adults roosted in the cavity a few nights before eggs were laid, but only one adult did so during the incubation and nestling periods. Nestlings were fed arthropods and small vertebrates at an average rate of 3 visits/hr with no change in delivery rate over the nestling period. Adults defended their nests from four bird species but shared one cavity with a roosting female Helmeted Woodpecker (Dryocopus galeatus) throughout their incubation period. We confirm that the White-throated Woodcreeper exhibits biparental care like the Great Rufous Woodcreeper, the Dendrocolaptes and the Lepidocolaptes, but in contrast to Sittasomus, Dendrocincla and Xiphorhynchus. We recommend studies with banded individuals to determine the relative contribution of each parent.
24640493|Flightless Cormorants (Phalacrocorax harrisi), the only flightless members of their 27-member genus, are listed as vulnerable on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List. The world population of <1,000 breeding pairs is restricted to scattered small colonies along the coastlines of Isla Fernandina and Isla Isabela, Galpagos, Ecuador. No previous study has systematically examined daily activity patterns by these birds in relation to environmental variables. We made half-hourly behavior scan counts at a colony of Flightless Cormorants at Cabo Douglas, Isla Fernandina during the daylight hours of 7 consecutive days in May 2011. We used generalized linear models and multi-model inference to examine the response of colony occupancy and behaviors to hour of day, height of tide, temperature, humidity, wind speed, barometric pressure, solar elevation, and solar flux. We show that the behavior of Flightless Cormorants during our period of study was shaped primarily by time of day, wind speed, and solar flux; unlike many marine birds, they responded little to tide.
24640494|Results are reported from a citizen-science program to study the ecology, behavior, and reproduction of an invasive population of Red-vented Bulbuls (Pycnonotus cafer) in Houston, Texas. The most frequent behaviors are foraging (n = 69), resting (n = 45), and calling (n = 29). The entire population occurred in urban areas. Bulbuls consumed berries (n = 8 species), fruits (n = 5), flowers (n = 5), and buds (n = 4); some insects are also included in the diet. Nine of the 20 species of identified plants consumed are exotics found within the native range of the bulbul, six are exotics found outside the native range, and five are native Texas species. The most common of the 35 species of plants that bulbuls perched in are bamboo (Bambusa sp.), crape myrtle (Lagerstroemia indica), edible fig (Ficus carica), and tallow (Sapium sebiferum). Flock size averaged 2.3 birds/flock (range = 122) and the largest flocks (1222 birds) are in late summer and early winter. Bulbuls are not migrants; peak observations are during spring and summer, with lower numbers during October. General biology is similar between Houston bulbuls, native populations in Asia, and other invasive populations in the Northern Hemisphere. This alien population is not a serious agricultural pest or disperser of weedy seeds, does not compete with native species, and has not expanded beyond the Houston region in the continental United States.
24640495|In many birds, females prospecting for high quality breeding resources have to inspect a number of males and their territories to make a good mating choice, yet in the face of competition with other females, the search time should be minimized. The sequential sampling of potential mates and territories by females is seldom witnessed. In a study of breeding Northern Lapwings, Vanellus vanellus, in Norway, we observed a female during the pair-formation period visiting seven territories in 105 mins, spending 1520 mins on each of six territories pecking food from the ground and watching the resident male performing nest-scraping displays. One of the males was already mated, and on this territory the prospecting female spent only 2 mins. The observations show that female Northern Lapwings are potentially able to sample a high number of available territories in only a few hours.
24640496|Data concerning 303 nests of the Terek Sandpiper (Xenus cinereus) from 58 breeding sites in different parts of Russia and Ukraine were analyzed. Among them 196 were found in the western and 107 in the eastern part of this species' breeding range. In the eastern part, 61% of nests were placed in forests or within bushes, while in the western part only 8% of them had such location. Moreover, in the eastern part the species seems to avoid natural open habitats in spite of their availability, whereas in the western part of the breeding area nests were built mostly in open habitats, like meadows, pastures, or sandbanks dominated by sparse and low vegetation. Therefore, western and eastern populations of the Terek Sandpiper differ in nesting habitat selection. This is an exception among related species of the family Scolopacidae, for which different nesting habitats were reported only occasionally.
24640497|Because of their cryptic plumage and nocturnal habits, little is known about the breeding behavior of Chuck-will's-widows (Antrostomus carolinensis). Using temperature loggers and video-recordings, we quantified the incubation, brooding, and provisioning behavior of male and female Chuck-will's-widows in Adams County, Ohio, in 2011 and 2012. We located six nests, all 2-egg clutches laid on the ground. Four nests were successful, one was depredated, and one was abandoned. We quantified incubation behavior at all nests (mean = 5.5 days; range = 0.412.9 days). Adult Chuck-will's-widows incubated an average of 89.2% of the time, with females observed incubating more than males. Most incubation off-bouts (n = 104) occurred at dawn (04000659; n = 45) and dusk (19002200; n = 48) and averaged 35 mins in duration. After hatching, the mean duration of brooding bouts was 20 mins (age of young = 17 days). Both males and females provisioned young, and feeding rates were highest (P = 0.003) during the hour immediately after sunset. The timing of off-bouts during incubation and provisioning visits after hatching suggests that Chuck-will's-widows in our study foraged primarily at dawn and dusk. Previous authors have noted that nightjars are visual predators and, therefore, their foraging behavior may be constrained by light levels.
24640498|Because Sharp-shinned Hawks (Accipiter striatus) are among the most secretive of North America's forest-breeding raptors, little is known about their breeding biology, including the characteristics of their nesting habitat. In 2009 and 2010, we searched forest stands in Kentucky and located 11 nests, all in pines (Pinus spp.). Nests were at a mean height of 18.6  1.4 m in trees with a mean height of 23.7 m. Comparison of the characteristics of nest sites and randomly selected unused sites revealed significant differences (P = 0.021). Discriminant analysis revealed that six variables (foliage cover, mean tree height, basal area, percent deciduous canopy cover, distance from edge, and distance from road) permitted the best discrimination between used and random sites. Sharp-shinned Hawks nested in areas closer to edges and in areas with denser stands of taller conifers and denser understory. All nests were in stands of young (~2550 years), even-aged conifers about 1825 m in height. Nest sites were also closer to edges where stands of dense pines transitioned into areas with more, shorter deciduous trees and less foliage cover than nest sites. These adjacent areas may provide better foraging habitat for nesting Sharp-shinned Hawks because small birds, their primary prey, are more abundant in mixed stands than in dense stands of conifers where they nested.
24640499|Reports of interspecific parental behavior are rare but widespread among avian taxa. We present the first known case of interspecific parental care by a Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina) at a nest of the Veery (Catharus fuscescens), documented by video at a long-term study site in northern Delaware, USA. We provide data on nest chronology, quantify parental behavior, and describe a copulation event between the Wood Thrush and the female Veery that was captured on video. Despite incurring no obvious fitness benefit, the Wood Thrush provided significant and prolonged nestling care including more feeding attempts and sanitation maneuvers than either Veery. We propose that these observations are a consequence of the normal adaptive behavior of the recipient species.
24640500|An Eared Grebe (Podiceps nigricollis) that lost a leg in an accident increased muscle mass in its intact leg by 28%. This allowed it to forage, run along the surface to take flight, and survive for about a year before dying in a weather-induced downing. Its ultimate survival probably depended on the species' predilection for hypersaline habitats, where passive invertebrates are abundant and can be captured easily on the surface without the need to dive. Similar phenotypic accommodation may have been realized in other similarly impaired Eared Grebes. However, it seems unlikely to be achieved in other grebe species, particularly fish-eating pursuit divers, which require two intact legs and feet for propulsion and underwater maneuverability.
24640501|Northern Bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) are predicted to maintain optimal covey sizes throughout the non-breeding season to avoid predators, thermoregulate, and forage efficiently. Arguably, population declines that reduce local bobwhite population densities could influence coveying behavior, which may then affect individual survival and population growth rates. We investigated changes in covey size and membership in a declining bobwhite population on private land in southwestern Ohio. Covey densities (range 0.251.63 coveys/km) were lower than estimates from other areas of the bobwhite range. Despite an average 3.2% weekly decline in mean covey size during OctoberMarch, two unique coveys merged to form larger coveys on only six occasions and only one radiomarked individual changed covey affiliation (n = 307 radiomarked individuals, n = 57 coveys). Spatiotemporal separation of coveys and low daily movement rates (139.2 m/day) provided little opportunity for contact among adjacent coveys, possibly inhibiting mergers and inter-covey movements of individuals, particularly during winter. We postulate that low incidences of covey mergers and inter-covey movement by individuals were associated with spatial isolation of coveys because of low population densities on our study sites. Such density-dependent social structure would likely lower non-breeding season survival in low-density populations and therefore have implications for population viability.
24640502|We present the first nesting information for the Black Bushbird (Neoctantes niger), an enigmatic and poorly known member of the family Thamnophilidae. A hanging bulky cup nest was found in September 2011, in the buffer zone of Manu National Park, Peru. The nest contained a single white egg with scattered dark maroon spots and light streaks and was being attended by a male. The general shape of the nest resembled the deep pouch-shaped nests of other ant-birds (e.g., Hypocnemis, Myrmotherula) but with clear differences in overall dimensions, thickness and amount of nesting material. More information is needed on nest architecture and breeding behavior for the Black Bushbird and all of its possible close relatives.
24640503|We report the first breeding record of the White Tern (Gygis alba) in Mxico. We also provide notes on parental behavior of this species on Socorro Island, Revillagigedo Archipelago, Mxico. We observed two adults feeding one nestling during the summer of 2012 at a nest located on the naval base on Socorro Island. The White Tern is considered a vagrant species in the Revillagigedo Archipelago. Although a breeding colony was mistakenly reported earlier, our report positivey confirms for the first time the breeding status of this species in Mxico.
24640504|We describe an undocumented foraging strategy of the Willie Wagtail (Rhipidura leucophrys) interacting with grazing animals. This observation includes intentionally displacing a horse in order to depredate insects. Further observations of the feeding behavior and foraging tactics of wagtails are necessary to ascertain the frequency of this event in this species that has adjusted to living in cities and rural settings.
24640505|Larvae of bird blow flies are hematophagous intermittent parasites and they infect a variety of bird host species. In this study we focused on the prevalence of infestation in nests of Turdus merula in two sites with different climate. We collected 57 nests from Bratislava (Slovakia) which has a warmer climate and 37 nests from Leipzig (Germany) where there is cooler weather during the breeding season. There is no significant difference in the prevalence of infestation and in number of puparia between these two sites. The average number of infested nests was 18.68% while the average number of blow flies per nest was 10.0  7.32 with 2.54  1.83 larvae per nestling.
